ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e28	The representative of Une Bastholm, who has been on leave, has again taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e47	On Monday, the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the Council of State Sylvi Listhaug, Foreign Minister Ine M. Eriksen Soreide and the Council of State Jøran Kallmyr will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Anniken Huitfeldt.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e56	My question goes to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. No one has done more to combat the terrorist fields of ISIL than the Kurds of Iraq and Syria. The Kurds have been victims of ISIL, and the Kurds have sacrificed themselves in the fight against ISIL. The UN has referred to ISIL’s attack on the Jesuits as genocide. 11,000 Kurdish soldiers have fallen in the fight against ISIL. When the Kurds stood up against ISIL, they did not ask the West for support statements and warm blankets, they asked for weapon training and military support. They did, among other things. by the Norwegian Telemark Battalion. But after the Kurds have sacrificed themselves and have been victims themselves, it is now those who are sacrificed and failed by the outside world. The Foreign Minister was very early in stopping Norwegian exports of defence equipment to Turkey. That's good. A week ago, on 9 October, Germany's Foreign Minister condemned Turkey's offensive in north-east Syria for the most part. The Netherlands did the same. The following day, October 10, Sweden's Minister for Foreign Affairs condemned the Turkish offensive. That same day, the Danish Minister of Foreign Affairs called Turkey's ambassador into the carpet. He too was ready: he condemned. Norwegian use of words has been much more cautious. It was not until late Monday evening, 14 October, after all 28 EU Member States had agreed to condemn, that there was finally a condemnation by the Norwegian Ministry of Foreign Affairs. "You should call things by their real name," said Olof Palme. Why did the Foreign Minister have to wait so long to condemn Turkey's military offensive in north-east Syria?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e73	Let me first say that I agree with much of the analysis of Huitfeldt's representative regarding the situation of the Kurds. This is an attack we have both condemned and met with very concrete and clear action, especially as regards the possibility of exporting military material to Turkey. Our clear main priority from the day the attack took place, October 9, was first to go out clearly and demand that Turkey stop the operations immediately. It was also quite in line with what I saw that others later on did. The second thing we did was call Turkey's ambassador to the U.D. on October 10, where we made that vision perfectly clear. We also used the morning of 10 October to put an end to the processing of new licence applications for exports of both defence and multi-use equipment for military use. We were among the first countries – if not the first – that did, at least the first NATO country, and we have been clear and clear to the Turks about exactly what we think about this. Then we see an escalation in which the humanitarian situation becomes dramatically worse. We also see that the attacks do not stop, rather on the contrary. At the same time as the European Union came with its condemnation, we did. In it it is that we have always been clear and clear about what we think about this, and we prioritised the concrete act of stopping the licensing of exports of military material. We feel that it has a significant sound base also in other European countries, and that Europe is fully in line here. There was an informal meeting yesterday in the NATO Council, and it is now going to be a formal meeting of the NATO Council, in which we have expressed exactly the same condemnation and concerns we have, both for the fight against ISIL, for the humanitarian situation and for the civilian population.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e86	I just note that all 28 Member States of the European Union had to condemn before Norway used the same words. In the detention camps, there are many women and men who have fought for ISIL in different ways. We hear that the guard at some of these camps is failing, and that many soldiers are now moving to fight against the Turkish forces. And there is a potential danger that ISIL prisoners will be released. My question is whether there is a real opportunity for court settlement in the region, or whether there is a greater chance that these people will actually be punished if they are brought home to countries such as the United States. Germany, the Netherlands or Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e95	The debate on possible criminal prosecution in the region is taking place between many European countries. For the time being, no solutions have been found to some of the major challenges you see, such as: guarantees against the use of the death penalty. In principle, Norway believes that criminal prosecution should take place where the offence has been committed. It is a recognised international legal principle, and so are we. At the same time, Norway has laws and regulations to deal with the possibility of criminal convictions in Norway for suspected terrorist acts or for joining a terrorist organisation. It varies a little from country to country in Europe, but we have this opportunity. So it's right, as Huitfeldt's representative says, that there's a concern about the watchkeeping of the camps, also because this is something SDF himself has said can be a challenge if they regroup their forces to fight the Turks. For the time being, it is difficult to say what consequences it will have, but there are already rumors that up to 800 should have escaped from Ain Issa, which is about. 25 miles from Al-Hol.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e102	It opens for follow-up questions – first Anniken Huitfeldt.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e107	There are very few European countries that have brought home ISIL prisoners, perhaps only Kosovo, with their very special history. The progress party says that it is not appropriate to bring home a single ISIL prisoner. My question is: does the Advancement Party have veto rights in the government, or will the Foreign Minister look at each case individually and not rule out bringing some people home if they can be prosecuted here at home?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e114	It is true that there are very few European countries that have to some extent recovered suspected advance fighters, and there are many reasons for this. When it comes to the issue of possible criminal prosecution, there is an area that belongs to the Minister of Justice, and I ask that he in that case get that question and answer it. We have over time expressed our strong concern for special children. That's also why we brought home five orphans from Al-Hol. We did that in June, and it was important for humanitarian reasons. We also see that when we consider how other European countries do it, it is right that there are few, if any, who have picked up suspected foreign fighters and, to some extent, children.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e121	Anniken Huitfeldt – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e126	I want to ask a follow-up question to the Council of State, Kalldmyr. It is true that the Progress Party is opposed to bringing home a single ISIL prisoner if they can be prosecuted here at home, and that this applies to the entire government's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e132	The Progress Party has taken the view that IS mothers should not be taken home through the consular trail, but has accepted that children can return to Norway. The issue of criminal prosecution is not a matter for the Minister of Justice to decide on but for the prosecution authorities. The prosecution authorities are independent in Norway. If, for example: those persons come home for their own machinery, or come home at all times, the prosecution authorities are the ones who consider that criminal proceedings should be initiated against them. Public prosecutors also need to assess whether there is a basis for requesting their extradition now. This may happen if, for example, the prosecution authorities: have a case where they feel it is important to get the person back to Norway for criminal prosecution. Then things like the avoidance risk where they are, that is, the risk of not having a trial in the case, can be one of the factors involved in the prosecution's assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e139	Mani Hussaini – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e144	For the Workers' Party, it was important to be early out there and condemn what the Turks are now doing in Northern Syria. For the Workers' Party, it has been important to show support for the Kurds and to do so early. ‘Judgement’ is the strongest word in foreign policy. Unfortunately, I don't think we got a good answer from the Foreign Minister about why it took so long. Maybe it's because the government, like in a lot of other foreign policy issues, has been second-guessed and not dared to take an early position. Here I will give the Foreign Minister the opportunity to take an early position, a strong position: Will the Minister of Foreign Affairs join the US sanctions and sanctions against Turkish statesmen?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e149	Firstly, I completely disagree with the situation description of the representative Hussaini. I would like to have good examples of when the representative believes that Norway is a second-rater. We take our political decisions based on what a situation is like. That's why we've condemned the Turkish attack, and that's why we've taken clear and concrete steps to help you, for example. does not export weapons and ammunition to Turkey. I would also like to believe that the representative Mani Hussaini agrees – and that, as most importantly, it was important to do it early and significantly earlier than anyone else. I also did not register any condemnation in the first comments from the Workers' Party, but this is probably due to a misunderstanding. To the question of penalties: there is something that needs to be assessed in a broader context, as always. We don't have the habit of having unilateral sanctions from the Norwegian side, but I guess this is a question that's going to come up in a broader European circle too. Norway then has a clear tradition to consider joining it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e156	Mani Hussaini – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e161	What's happening in northern Syria, in the Kurdish areas, is terrible in a lot of ways, but maybe one of the things that is terrible sin, is that it's a setback for the democratic movement that has taken place there. Child marriages, Sharia courts and coercion marriages have been banned, women have been co-appointed, and democracy has begun to flourish. Unfortunately, we see that this war also contributes to perhaps one of the few democratic hopes in a region full of oppression now being turned back. One of the proposals that I hope the Foreign Minister will consider – and I hope she can answer that – is whether to initiate peacekeeping forces in the areas of war. This has become a war between countries, not just one country and a Kurdish militia. Will Norway consider initiating UN peacekeeping forces in those areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e166	I agree with the description of what seemed to be a move towards a more democratic position in the region. I think that was positive, and that is also one of the reasons why we have very clearly supported the fight against ISIL. We've done that both politically, economically and militarily, and we're still doing that. At the same time, we have been very clear that the fight is not over, and I think we now see the consequences of a few days of attacks and changes in the region that could lead to ISIL getting foothold again – as they have got some places. It's a dramatic situation that we have a common interest in reversing. I feel that is the same message that several other European countries also give. So to the issue of peacekeeping forces: it is something that in that case has to be adopted by the UN Security Council, and it has to be based on more than that we have now seen one week of fighting. These issues are now being discussed in the Security Council, probably also more during this week. There was a discussion a few days ago, and I expect that this will also be an important part of the evaluations ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e173	Live Signe Navarsete – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e178	The NATO Parliamentary Assembly was held in London last weekend, and after the speech to Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg, it was partly outrageous announcements from many countries – with support for the Kurds and with fear of destabilization in the region, that ISIL prisoners should escape, and that Russia should be given a stronger thank-you. Norway has a free voice. We are not bound by any of the EU or other constellations. We can take initiatives. We have shown in many ways that Norway can help speed up processes that can lead to peace. So my question is, what initiative will the Foreign Minister and the government take to set in motion a process that can lead to a Turkish withdrawal from North Syria and a peaceful development?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e185	If we go to what was the situation description first, this with destabilization and the possibility of escaping prisoners, etc., it's quite real. It has also been an important part of our criticism of the operation that it is reversing progress made in the region, the fight against ISIL, and not least that it has a destabilising effect, which also has major humanitarian consequences. It is a relatively small geographical area with already several hundred thousand internally displaced persons, and it is becoming increasingly, day by day, as the operation is ongoing. With regard to different initiatives, there are now many consultations between EU countries and between EU countries and Norway. Although we have a clear and independent voice, we also have a great interest and benefit in cooperating with other like-minded countries on these kinds of issues. I'm going to a German-Nordic Foreign Minister's meeting tomorrow, and this case will also be discussed there. And although we do not now see concrete wishes for peace talks or arms rest, I believe that this is an initiative and discussions that Norway can and should be involved in in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e192	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e198	The Kurds have been spearheads in the fight against ISIL and made great sacrifices to combat ISIL’s terrorist army. What we have now seen is that the same Kurds have been betrayed by the United States and President Trump. It's an extremely serious situation. I want to commend the government for being early in stopping arms exports to Turkey. I called for a clear condemnation on behalf of SV for a long time – I am happy that it came at the end. Now I believe it is in place that Norway is not waiting for other countries, but is leading the issue of penalties. It is absolutely essential that the Turkish government now experience that actions have consequences. Will Norway initiate sanctions, go ahead and discuss them with other European countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e205	To the situation of the Kurds first, as the representative began with: it is quite right that the Kurds have been the spearhead in the fight against ISIL. We've worked closely with them, the United States has cooperated closely with them, and it has the entire anti-ISIL coalition. Of course, it is a paradox to hear the representative Lysbakken talk about it warmly now, all the time SV has been against Norway participating in the military and supporting the Kurds and SDS, all the way. It may also be a position that is moving, but I think it is interesting to note the touching care that is now to support it – as I think we should do all the time, and so have we done in our reign. Then the issue of sanctions is so complex, and we have no tradition of doing so – the representative Lysbakken well knows from his own time in government too – alone. However, the current discussions include: Because the Americans now seem to be, I stress, imposing sanctions – we do not know yet – are discussions we are also taking part in.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e217	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e222	It is quite right that SV is opposed to sending Norwegian soldiers in war on U.S. war missions, and I believe that what has happened now shows very well why it is wise, when our greatest ally is simply not to trust, as demonstrated to all the world in this matter. It should be a bigger problem for those who are champions of water retention in Norwegian foreign policy, than for those of us who are too independent from the United States. But the question is, because it is not good enough to say that Norway will consider penalties if other countries go ahead. The question is why Norway cannot go ahead and whether Norway will take initiatives against other European countries to impose sanctions on Turkey from both NATO allies in Europe and other countries that are close to us in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e229	This is, as I said, a question that is now being discussed. We are one week inside the operation, and several things are discussed, including: Weapon rest and the prospects for it, to stop the operation immediately and not least also how to deal with Turkey in this situation, but also the longer-term issue around, for example. the fight against ISIL and how to deal with it. It is then easy to agree with the criticism that the United States has not behaved in this matter either specifically clearly or uniformly. I think that is the criticism of most of the groups. But I would nevertheless like to stress that being able to wage the fight against ISIL would not have been possible for the Kurds without the military support that Norway and others have given, among other things. for capacity-building. In retrospect, you have to be critical of the United States as an ally, and it has a good tradition for that, but it would not have been possible to be where we are in the fight against ISIL today, without the military support, among other things. Norway has given it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e236	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e241	Military control of ISIL we have been strong for all along. Another question is when Norway is going to make soldiers available in American operations. Time and again, we have seen clearly why we should be careful with that. I want to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs another question. The Minister of Justice was at Dagsrevyen yesterday and told of the government's preparations for a new refugee crisis in connection with this situation. One of the reasons many European countries are now detained is that in practice, Erdogan is holding Europe hostage by threatening to open the doors of Europe to more refugees. Then the Minister of Justice said to the NRC about the government's situation: ‘It shall be very simple. We're going to check on them and see if they have infectious diseases." I could not see anything in the matter of many actually going to need protection. What does the Minister for Foreign Affairs do to work for refugees who may now need protection in the region to do so?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e255	I'm going to get to that, but only one last visit to the question of military involvement in the fight against ISIL: It's almost even more obvious that Audun Lightbakken now says that one is too military to fight ISIL – even «strong for» – but it's everyone other than Norway and our allies who are going to do the job. It's an interesting point of view, but it's far in good SV tradition. So to the question of the situation in the region regarding refugees: there is no doubt that Turkey has done a great job of housing and receiving refugees. That's about. Four million refugees who have come to Turkey. An EU-Turkey agreement on the management of refugees has also been concluded. I believe that we must provisionally assume that the agreement is there, but we are also prepared to make changes. This means, for example: that, through the State budget, we have now increased our efforts to stabilise vulnerable states, and that is when Iraq is one of the countries. Then, too, Syria, and an early effort there, another of the countries we work with, is to help mitigate the effects of several refugees in the region.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e262	Bears Moxnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e267	NATO country Turkey's illegal invasion of Syria has driven hundreds of thousands away. The Islamic militias that Turkey has sent into the conflict are now executing Kurdish politicians, and the plans of the Erdogan regime mean – as we know – that north-east Syria must be cleansed of the Kurdish population. We have to conclude that the measures taken by Norway and others have now, not exactly, had great effect, as the number of deaths is increasing, as the number of displaced persons is also increasing. If we are serious about the condemnation of Turkey, new measures must be introduced, in our view. Will the government take the initiative that the UN General Assembly advise members to impose sanctions on Turkey to stop both the invasion and ethnic cleansing of Kurds in the region?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e276	I share the concern of the representative of Moxnes about driving hundreds of thousands of people on the run – many of them are already internally displaced in the area, and more will, after all, be judged. It's an area that basically houses 1.7 million people, and the last number we have is that it's approximately. 160 000 new internally displaced persons. These are numbers that are unfortunately updated every day, and new ones are coming. We are also very concerned about the humanitarian situation. We've already promised – and we're implementing that promise – 10 billion. humanitarian aid to Syria and neighbouring countries. But if we get a new situation, with many internally displaced people, we also need to consider new measures and see if both funds and partners can continue as they do today. In that case, the UN Security Council will adopt sanctions decisions, and there will be new discussions there, probably during this week.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e284	Bears Moxnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e289	The Kurds have been our leading allies in the fight against IS. Now there is a NATO country, fed with weapons from NATO, including Norway, which is about to crush the Kurds and drive hundreds of thousands away, as the minister took up. We have more media if we really want to put pressure on Turkey. For example, the country was expelled from the fighter aircraft program as a penalty for buying Russian air protection. Norway and western countries have also used deportation of foreign diplomats in response to countries accused of crime. In view of this, would the government ask that NATO require immediate Turkish withdrawal? Will the government also consider deporting Turkish diplomats to put pressure on the country, as we have done in other cases in the past?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e298	As I was a little bit involved in one of my previous answers, there was an informal discussion in NATO's council yesterday. There was a clear feedback from the European Allies who took the floor, and from the United States, who immediately stopped the operation and also demanded both withdrawal and the conclusion of a truce. That was also our clear message in NATO. It's going to be a formal meeting today, which is going on right now, where we're going to repeat our messages, and where, after all, it's an even clearer line, because all the countries then are probably going to take the floor, unlike what it's like during an informal meeting. There are several things that are challenging in the relationship with Turkey now. One is the purchase of the Russian air protection system S-400, which the representative Moxnes was in. This has led to the exclusion of the F-35 programme. But we also have other questions that are discussed with Turkey in NATO. We have not considered that it would be appropriate to expel the Turkish ambassador. That's because we want to continue to have a dialogue on these issues and influence Turkey in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e307	Bears Moxnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e312	I thank you for your answer. Also on previous occasions, when it has been about perhaps less serious events than what is now happening in north-east Syria, Norway has made clear diplomatic reactions to other countries. So now we have a NATO allied country that is responsible for a situation that is dangerous to the stability of the area, which goes beyond civilians, leading to a massive flow of refugees – currently internally in north-east Syria – and to killing civilians, including the populace. In such a situation, in our view, there is a need for more clear pressure and at least as clear diplomatic responses as Norway has previously imposed against nations that have been responsible for perhaps less crimes than what we now see. Therefore, my question, which I would like an answer to, is whether we should not, for that reason, consider similar measures now – because there have been clear responses in the past, which may now be needed to the country of Turkey.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e321	I answered that question in the previous round. But I must also say that as the situation is now, where there is a unison condemnation from European countries and from the United States of what is happening now, there is also a need to have a dialogue with Turkey to stop the operation. It can be combined with other instruments, but the hope of getting a truce is not so big yet, although we continue to demand it and work for it. But what would be better in the current situation by cutting diplomatic links, which is one of the most powerful means we have, is very unclear to me. We rely on us to try to influence Turkey, along with our European and other allies, and together with the EU, to put an end to the operation immediately. That's our goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e326	Bears Moxnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e331	I would like to remind you of what the ambassador said to the class fight yesterday. He said, ‘We’re not going to stop, it’s not possible. We want to stabilize the region, we want to make the Syrians happier there and we want to relieve some of the burden that Turkey is now carrying, as host country for four million refugees. This is an anti-terrorist operation, not an invasion.» And on the other hand, “We will put an end to this threat even if the whole world is against us.” These are statements that might indicate that Turkey is planning to continue its invasion and military operation in north-east Syria, and that the pressure that has been so far may not have had the desired effect. That's why my question, which I want to follow up a little bit further: does this not indicate that there is a need for a little bit harder lye, also from NATO ally, than what we've seen up to now, because Turkey obviously stands on its side and does not intend to do anything to stop the operation, given the preliminary reactions of the Allies?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e348	First of all, it is not unnatural for an ambassador to speak on behalf of the Turkish government – it also does our ambassadors on behalf of the Norwegian government. So that's not necessarily the ambassador's own position and his own thoughts, of course he has an instruction on what to say. We're a week into a dramatic military operation that both of us and others have condemned. We still have a hope that it will be possible to stop the operation and get to a truce. There is now considerable movement and dynamism among close allies, among Europeans and the United States, and it is important that the pressure that is now clearly in Turkey, which is felt stronger and stronger for every day, also works – with the intention that the military operation close immediately, and that we have a Turkish withdrawal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e355	Let's move on to the next main question
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e360	One of the government's major performance reforms in the last big-time was the so-called near-police reform, a solid centralisation of the police. In 2018, Erna Solberg held a press conference. She was very proud, and she forcefully said, "But have you noticed anything? The criticism of the reform has ceased." A few months later, we could read in the media that in 11 of the 12 police districts, trust elected officials thought there were crisis-like conditions in the police. There have been several research reports since then, and in the spring, in April, there was a research report from the Institute of Labour Research, where two thirds of those who had responded to the police said that they went home with a bad feeling after work because the situation was such that they didn't have enough resources, didn't have enough time, to follow up demanding issues. So last year, eleven of the 12 police districts said there were crisis-like conditions. After hearing all the party speeches of the government, one would think that things could go a little in the right direction, but then the Police Union conducted a new investigation, which was published in August, where they asked the chief executives in the twelve districts whether the police had come closer to people, or whether they had become more distant. Then twelve out of twelve replied that it had become worse – they had become more distant, and the situation was more critical. So now the state budget came, and what is the President of the Joint Police Association saying in concrete terms? He says that with that budget it's going to be cut around the police districts in Norway, that people have to be sold out. That's the government's answer. My question to the Council of State Kalldmyr is: Does the Council of State Kalldmyr agree with what Mrs Solberg said last year, that the criticism of the reform has ceased, or does he agree with all the thousands of policemen who have said so clearly from?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e372	Close-up reform is a difficult reform. There are 17,000 police officers. So there will be criticism during the implementation of the reform, not surprising. This is also a criticism that we have to take seriously. We need to implement measures along the way in order to be able to adjust the reform. That is why I have also announced to Stortinget that I am going to submit a message that comes in mid-November, where we are just going to make the necessary adjustments and take the necessary steps. I also noticed that a few minutes after the presentation of the budget, with a clear reservation that they had counted correctly, the police union felt that there was too little in the budget. Then they had done the following calculation exercise: they had looked at the total proposed for the police for 2020, compared to the 2019 budget and realized that it was 600 million. kr in increase, and that 500 million. kr of that amount shall cover the growth of prices and wages and salaries. So they said there was no room for that increase of 350 million. kr as the government had been out and said would come to strengthen the police. But it's just a little bit of a calculation error. If you compare this year's budget to last year's, you have to remember that last year's budget contained a number of non-recurring expenditures. I expect the representative Schlagsvold Vedum to agree with me when I say that the helicopters we bought for 300 million. Last year, we do not want to pay again, because they have been paid this year, and they came this year. So that explains 300 million. NOK 600 million. kr. So the government has provided a budget that actually strengthens the police by over 350 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e379	Once again, we experience a government saying it's those who wear the uniform, who make mistakes. Of the police who were asked if the situation has improved or worsened after the reform, 80 responded. that the preparedness has either deteriorated or at least not improved. 90 pst. said that the prevention work had either deteriorated or at least not improved. There were 4,500 police officers who answered. The League of Police has repeatedly reported on crisis-like conditions since the last year, but the Prime Minister says that everything is good and that the criticism has stopped. I spoke to the head of the Police Union last night after they had met, among other things. The police director, what he thinks about the budget now that they've got to work more closely with it. The police union's clear message is that with the draft budget available, exactly what they have said will happen – it will be more demanding, it will be tougher, and there will be redundancies in some police districts because the resource shortage is great. Is it such that once and for all the trustees in the police are wrong, and that it is the government that is always right – that is far from everyday life to people?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e388	It's not like it's either black or white. It's not like we've said we don't believe what the trustees in the police say. I have traveled all over the country, visited all the police districts, spent a lot of time on the trusted ones and received very good and constructive feedback. There are feedback that we have taken with us in the work on the message, and that will be highlighted in the message. One of the results we've seen from all the conversations we've had with the trusted people around Norway is 83 million. In order to strengthen the research area, the feedback from nearly all police departments was that there are some major challenges. That's a lot thanks to the fact that we've actually listened to the trustees. We have never said that we should not be able to make adjustments to the police reform, that we should not be able to make assessments along the way. But we must not forget the big picture – that now we also get to commit crime that we did not have the opportunity to do until we started the reform, among other things. the serious trend of child abuse.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e395	There will be follow-up questions – first Emilie Enger Mehl.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e400	In a report on preparedness in East police districts from this summer, it is clear, in fact, it is black on white, that the inhabitants of the Nesodden municipality can rarely or never expect to get help from the police in response time because the municipality has too few inhabitants that the police will give priority to sending police officers there rather than keeping them in densely populated areas. When the Minister of Justice commented on it in the VG on 5 September, he just indicated that the government would increase the number of police officers in the state budget for 2020. But, as we have heard, the Police Joint Alliance is now saying the very opposite. They say that with the budget presented, the situation will be even worse. Last night, the head of the PF said there will be redundancies of police officers. Does the Minister of Justice think that this year's budget will improve the situation, or will he listen to policemen who say it will be even worse?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e409	We've set up a state budget where we're increasing the police's budget by over 600 million. kr – it is included the money that goes to price and salary growth. The real growth is 600 million. kr. Some have to go to ICT security, ICT renewal, which makes operations more efficient and safer, but it's 350 million. kr, which is really going to strengthen Police Norway, and most of it is going to go to the police districts. It's set out of money to hire graduates who leave the Police College in 2020. It's set at 100 million. kr to it, and it is less than half a year's effect, because they are trained in May, and then they are employed in summer vicar positions that extend to a little in the autumn. How then, after such a short time, you can see that this will lead to redundancies in Police Norway, I have a very difficult time to understand.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e414	Emilie Enger Mehl – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e419	The state budget has all led to redundancies in recent years as a result of the police budget, so there is nothing new. It doesn't help with declarations about numbers, because people feel that preparedness is getting worse – it makes both residents and policemen. This summer Olga was defeated in 83 years by a raider outside the Dombås mini bank. Then there was no police nearby. There was a 70-year-old man, who happened to be there, who had to take care of the raider and get Olga safely out of the situation. The police didn't come until two and a half hours later. That, I believe, is a disaster for preparedness. This happened in the Inland police district, which has the lowest proportion of cases where the police are first on site. Only in 8.8 pst. Of all calls, the police are first on the ground — otherwise it is an ambulance, a fire service or a volunteer citizen who has to take responsibility in situations like this. The question is: does the minister think it's okay that Olga and other residents in Norway can't get help from the police when they're in an emergency?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e428	This is a generalization that you can't draw from a single story. It's not that if you call the police, it's the fire department that comes first. But there are statistics that show that the police come first in only 15 pst. of the cases if the fire service is called first. There might be a good reason to call the fire department first. There's not much help with a police officer if it burns in the garage. I want to challenge the representative a little bit about what she says about the fact that there have been fewer police around in Norway. Can you point to a single district in Norway that has had fewer police officers since 2013? And if you're going to answer yes to that, I would like to inform you that there are almost 1,500 more police officers employed around the districts, and all the districts have had a massive increase.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e435	The President will only remind the Council of State that the speech will be corrected by the President, and that you will be replaced. Per Olaf Lundtigen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e442	The first bid in good management is to bring the workers, bring the professionals, the ones who are going to do the job. What is characteristic of today's police force is that it's a long way to the leaders, the professionals get smaller, and there's big trade unions that are far away. Big places of service, i.e., in the big cities, have been clipped. The manager has lost executive responsibility, for example for the investigators. We've been given a remote control in the police, in practice hard work to resolve the issues. In the South-East police district, there is a complete curse among the professionals – full curse – and this has been handed over to the Council of State in a fifty-page report this summer. Its name is, among other things, that it is counted, that which can be counted, but not that which counts. That's exactly what I'm saying. Will the Council of State now take seriously the criticism of the system and reintroduce full local management at police stations?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e448	The criticism from the South-East police department staff has been taken seriously. It's written a report that I've been given, about the employees' own experiences of the situation. It is a report that we have highlighted in our assessments and in our governance dialogue with the Police Directorate. It is also true that even if you have special challenges in one police district, you cannot say that this is the case across the country. It will be a simplification, and you will have to be careful to assess the near-police reform on the basis of results in a single district. We are now working specifically on how to improve the situation in the South-East police district. One of the things the Police Directorate has told me that they want to look into is the division of the geographical districts, the GDEs, in the South-East police districts and see if it's appropriate. I support the Directorate of Police that they make such an assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e457	Per Olaf Lundtigen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e462	Government rejects the criticism of the system. Another theme: In Drammen, police, health and fire were co-located in one operating centre. The results were glittering and were a model for Norway as a whole. The government dropped the Drammen co-location. Today’s Telemark, Vestfold and Buskerud operations centre – which will do the job for a large district and for an incredible number of people – are too poorly staffed, and it is staffed by professionals who have less experience than before. The results are frightening: 24 pst. of the calls to 02800 have not been answered. 105 emergency calls have not been answered. Axle time requirement of 97 pst. is not observed. So what does political management do? They're lowering the requirement of time of access. How in the world can this happen? Will the Council of State take action and restore the co-localized Operation Centre in Drammen, so that we can secure the services in our area?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e469	Now, once again, we're back to the South-East police district. Now there's a specific question about whether I'm willing to go in and override the Chief of Police's assessment of where the Operation Centre should be. I think it would be unfortunate if we in the government started to override how to place important services. We are fully aware that there are challenges related to the operating centre, but we are also aware that the South-East police district was the last to start the structural changes that were in the near-police reform. We have also experienced other places that it takes some time before you are fully operational. But we're going to follow closely in the South-East police district. It's not that we don't take the system criticism seriously. We say that we've listened to the employees, and the Police Directorate now says that they'll go through and see if the GDEs are properly structured in South-East police districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e474	Per Olaf Lundtigen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e479	What the Council of State calls challenges is what people with shoes look at as big problems every day. So here we are in the situation that the operating centre is not able to respond to all requests, is not able to respond in time to all requests, and now, in response from the overall authority, that from 2020, the requirements for when replying are to be reduced. So it's going in the wrong direction in relation to what's been going on in the past. When the Council of State says it was the police and the police director who shut down the operating centre, it is de facto wrong. I have confirmed that in meeting with the Head of Mission of the Ministry of Justice, that the real political decision was taken by political leadership. So I repeat my question: to improve the situation – will the Council of State take the initiative to restore the co-localized centre of operation for police, health and fire in the Drama, so that we get a service that is better than what is today, in line with what was before?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e486	One of the principles of police reform is to have one operating centre per district. I think that's a principle that's going to be good in the years to come. I am a little uncertain about whether the representative from Lundtigen is talking about whether to move the centre from Tønsberg to Drammen, or whether to set up two operating centres within the same district. If you're going to set up two operating centres within the same district, I imagine that it can pose quite major challenges. There will also have to be coordination between the two Operational Centres, because the whole principle is that we should have more robust districts that are able to deal with serious investigation cases quite quickly through Joint Criminal Action, FSI, and that we should be able to have a better flow between patrols across municipal borders and, to a large extent, county boundaries. So I don't think the answer is to have two operating centres in the south-east, or that it's appropriate to start moving now, because I think that would also create a lot of chaos.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e491	Social violence Vedum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e496	The Council of State is trying to say that these are just individual cases, and now it is the South-East that is the case. But the representative Enger Mehl first lifted the situation in East police district, where the police said quite clearly – and also gave a report to the Minister of Justice – that they cannot be expected to be able to come in time if anything happens on the Nesodden. Then there was an example from the Inland Police District, which is the police district where the police are rarely first at the point of injury, and where we see that the statistics have gone wrong, that it is less common and less common for the police to come first. We've had a round on Finnmark in an earlier Question Time. There was a serious incident in Mehamn where the police did not come, with a very fatal outcome. Unfortunately, it's the kind of events around the country. The last report that came, a doctoral thesis, shows that the near-police reform has given 64 000 fewer jobs in two years, and that is not because it has become less criminal, but because it has become less capacity when resources have gone to a lot of internal work. I would like to end with the question: Is the Council of State Kallyr in agreement with Erna Solberg's summary that the criticism of the near-police reform has ceased?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e505	On the issue of why the police are going to be less involved: during the time when that report was produced, crime has fallen by 11.8 p.m., and the number of missions has dropped by 8.8 p.m.. But if you look at the type of crime that has dropped by 11.8 p.m., it's the classic crime where you move out: it's burglary, it's property the crime that's increased is the crime you have to sit in the office and investigate before you move out. And then there's fewer calls, because in terms of quantity, there's fewer things. An example of the crime that has increased is the abuse of children. It sits pedophile and downloads assault material, and they order directly transferred abuses of children abroad. So there's a physical assault on the children. This is not something we can have a police statement on, but it is serious crime that is also happening in the districts. It is important to also take that perspective into account when assessing this police reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e512	Social violence Vedum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e518	Whenever the government comes to the defensive in the discussion about the near-police reform and local preparedness, and that people throughout the country should feel confident that the police will come when the accident happens, pedophilia and assaulted children are being pulled up and pushed in front of them. After all, no one in the UK has disagreed with the idea that more attention should be paid to care for victims, as far as data crime is concerned, to tackle family violence, to tackle pedophilia. Of course it's 100 pst. agreement on that. But it cannot be that in large parts of the country the police cannot be expected to arrive at the time of the accident – whether there is an invasion, whether there is a violent incident, such as Olga on 83 from the Gudbrand Valley, which was raised, which had to wait two and a half hours for the police to come, because the police were centralised. I just want to ask the Council of State to clarify whether he believes it is acceptable that it is more and more often that people choose not to call the police because they know that they are not coming, and that preparedness is not good enough in many parts of the country. Or does the Council of State think that preparedness is good enough?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e525	What is a fact is that the police have received 1,500 more police posts in the districts. It's also a fact that we now have more in patrol than we had before. So it's that the response time can say something about people actually getting help when they call the police. It is a recognition that the response time has increased by one minute above the level in 2016. But at the same time, the response time is the same as it was in 2015, when you started to measure it for the first time. How the response time was before that, we really know very little about, there was very little focus on it. It's not about pushing children who are under attack in front of them. The whole near-police reform was about being able to take on the new crime as well. When the Centre Party is opposed to the necessary structural changes that are a prerequisite for it – yes, it is not that everyone is concerned about that very thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e534	Lene Vågslid – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e539	It's a challenge that we have a government council that answers like a bureaucrat to political questions. Although there is no doubt that there are challenges in the south-east, there are many police districts that now have major problems in implementing the near-police reform and the decisions we take in the Stortinget. Even if it is a question of a lack of money, it is also about a lack of political leadership. The majority has agreed that the local police should be strengthened. The size has reached an unimplemented investigation level. By 2020, the reform will be completed. Yesterday, the Justice Committee was in Tønsberg and met with the South-East police district. There, the police officer, in addition to the Police Union, says that such a budget is now in place, a low-level man with between 40 and 50 positions for next year. How is it to clean up in a rather alarming situation, as the Council of State gives the impression that it does?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e548	I have heard it many times now from the Workers' Party – that they must have an explanation of why they have withdrawn from this reform support. This is because we have not delivered what has been agreed, and because the reform should now have been completed. However, the fact is that when this agreement was written – these parties combined – a point was put down that an evaluation was to be carried out four years after the service structure was put into effect, i.e. in 2022. That was when the parties that agreed on the police reform were expecting us to have the good final results. Therefore, it is a little sought that the Workers' Party, in the middle of the reform period, believes that everything should have been done: by chance just before the local elections in 2019, everything should have been done, all the results should have been good – because in fact, none of the parties have thought about it when they wrote that agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e553	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e558	The Minister for Elder and Public Health has repeatedly appeared in the media and has claimed that the municipalities do not take responsibility for the BPA scheme. Among other things, she told the NRK on 4 September 2019 that it was ‘unfair for your address of residence to decide whether or not to receive an assistant’. Now, the Council of State puts down a sample to review the BPA scheme, and it can take several years before we get an investigation. I have nothing against investigations, and at least I have nothing against more knowledge, but to me it looks as if the Council of State wants to buy time. Because it's not that we're completely unfamiliar with the problems and solutions associated with BPA. On the contrary, we know that the government can give priority to municipal economy instead of tax relief to the wealthiest, on the contrary, we know that the Council of State can strengthen the legal security of this group, both by earmarking it and by giving the county councillors greater authority when people who need BPA are forever complaining about unfair decisions by the municipalities. I wonder if the Council of State could imagine any of these measures, and whether she intends to use some of them in the near future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e567	The government is already making changes to the BPA scheme. There is now no proposal to also give the possibility for those who already have BPA to continue with it after age 67. It comes as a result that an individual in Sande made us aware of the challenges faced by those who have had BPA, when they reach the age of 67, by perhaps being deprived of the opportunity to continue with this scheme, even though they haven't gotten any fresher or faster by having another birthday. So that's how we bring down this sample. It is about the fact that the government of the Granavolden platform is quite clear that we want the BPA to be an equality tool. I have to say that this government has a lot to be proud of when it comes to BPA. It is this government that has legislated the right to receive this service. It's this government that has provided 500 million. kr to the municipalities in order to facilitate this. Then we see that many municipalities don't follow up in a good enough way. So 40 is going to be pst. of the complaints that go to County in this area, sent back to municipalities for further treatment. I then think that all the politicians who have been elected to Norwegian municipalities now have a responsibility to ensure that the municipality they are elected to has a good BPA offer, and that the users who are applying for this service are treated in a good way. All the parties in this room are represented in a lot of municipalities and have the opportunity to get hold of it. That's why I'm going to send letters to all the newly elected members of the country with a reminder of how important it is to actually do the job, among other things. in the case of BPA.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e576	My question was about the necessity of the sample that the Council of State has put down, and why we should not use the knowledge base that we already have. There is no excuse to wait for action. I hear that the Council of State owes it to the municipalities and wants them to take responsibility for what may be caused by several factors. We also see that the organisations of disabled people have asked for immediate action. The Progress Party has both the Minister of Finance and the Council of State responsible for the field, and I believe that if it is political will, this can be resolved through both economic governance and law enforcement. When the Progress Party is talking about injustice, it's really worth listening. The question that arises when I hear the Progress Party talk about injustice is whether the Council of States – by virtue of its position – intends to do something about this injustice.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e587	This is what we're doing now through legislative changes, which also gives those who have had BPA the opportunity to continue with it after the age of 67. Then we want it to be an equality tool, but then you have to do a law job to get it done. This is why a selection is dropped where users are widely represented. We've done a lot in this government. SV is now selected in many of the country's municipalities. I believe that all members of the SV out there, in the Progress Party, in the Right and in all parties, have a responsibility to look at their municipality and what BPA offers they have. There are municipalities in Norway that do this in a glittering way and follow up their users well, and then there are other municipalities that do not. Then you have a common responsibility out there to get to grips with that situation. But it's so easy all the time just to send the ball here, when the individual decisions are taken out there, among those who are responsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e594	There will be follow-up questions - Sheida Sangtarash.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e600	The ball is with the Council of State; it is she who has the primary responsibility for municipal welfare services. It's not like I'm throwing the ball to the council. But where SV is selected, we do everything we can for the BPA scheme. To go a little further: in the state budget for 2020, we see that it has been proposed cut of 23 million. kr in the competence and innovation grant for spending money on Life for the rest of your life. Here I see that the Council of State sets up two important user groups against each other. I wonder: Is this responsible financing of Life for the rest of your life – when this money could go to raising skills, among other things. by the municipality’s employees, in the BPA scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e607	This government has made a formidable effort to build skills in services. We'll use 1.5 billion if I don't remember wrong. kr on it. I believe that we should also give priority to Life throughout our lives, get started, make sure that the older people in the municipalities that have built this country get better services. That's what Life's all about: getting the kitchen back in a nursing home, making sure that the elderly get to decide more for themselves, making sure that the quality gets better over the whole country. Then it's important to have funds available to enable us to start right now. And it's kind of amazing now to get criticism to prioritize Living your whole life. The usual tune from the opposition has been critical because it has not followed the money, even though the government has been very clear that the money will come from 2021. We're starting, just because we want development faster.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e616	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e621	In the nation yesterday we could read an article entitled ‘A breach of the social contract’. It says: ‘We strongly disagree with the conclusion of the Court of Justice Commission. It appears that the sample has had the near-synthesis glasses and shows a lack of understanding of the importance of the local presence of the judicial system.» It is a good article. I could have written it myself, but it's written by nine big ones from the Right. The working party was first very clear, cf. Our national meeting decision, that we don't want a large-scale centralization and mass destruction of property rights. The centre party, the Christian People's Party and the Left are equally clear. Obviously, there is no multiple in Stortinget for such large-scale closures as the Court Commission proposes. So my question to the Minister of Justice is whether there is no resistance in the Progress Party to the proposal for mass deposition. Or is the Minister of Justice in agreement with the other parties, including my own, that the structural proposal as it stands should be scrapped?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e633	Now, I'm sure there's someone in the Advancement Party who's been out there speaking about exactly this proposal that comes from the Court Commission, and it's negative, like in the Right and many other parties. What's the big difference between the Labour Party, the Right Party and the Advance Party, is perhaps that the Labour Party, before you see what the Court Commission had judged, said no because you're very eager now to show that you're against reforms. I think there is reason to take much of what the Court Commission writes, seriously. It's a reality we have to address with the challenges that the Commission has pointed to. As I also said when I got the Commission's work handed over, I thought it was drastic measures, but I can't carry out preliminary assessments and make bombastic claims that this is becoming obsolete, and this is becoming topical. That's not how the government works. We are going to take a thorough assessment of what has been proposed by the Court of Justice Commission. Then we have to look at the professional assessments of why they propose it. If we decide on a different structure – and there is a lot that speaks for us to do, cf. What the Prime Minister has said – we also need to look at remedial measures to compensate for the failure to comply with the recommendations of the Court of Justice Commission. But what I think is very good about this is that we have received a thorough report that has provoked a debate. I think Norway needs that debate. We have District Court judges who now write about what's good for their jurisdiction. From a way of being a Norwegian institute that is very important to all of us, this has also become an institute that is now being discussed around Norway, and that is good.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e642	The director of the Court’s administration says to several media now that the court budget for 2020 is depleting the dominating state power, and announces new cuts in options – 20–25 settings – and it comes to the top of everything they had to cut last year. Why does the Minister of Justice and the Government not give priority to the courts? Could it be that there are economic reasons, saving money in the state budget, behind the wet dreams of some representatives in the Right Party and the Progress Party have clearly stated that they want to set up a series of courts in the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e647	We've had an investigation by the consulting agency, Metier, which has gone through and looked at how these ABE cuts, because these are the ones that are often referred to, have actually affected Norwegian courts. What they have found out is that the Norwegian courts have been quite good at reducing crew costs without jeopardising the core business itself. And the core business is judges and investigators. Once we've committed 346 million. SEK to ICT betting in Norwegian courts, that means that we need fewer people to carry and copy paper. Spending money on judges and investigating instead is something we think is pretty good.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e652	There will be follow-up questions – Lene Wagslid.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e657	I'm sorry I'm getting flirty, but it's clear that there are many people who have been good at killing people. They've done it a lot. It's not like we've met in the Judiciary Committee, they're talking nonsense to us about cutting in judgmental yearwork. There's a capacity problem in the courts. Victims of crime are the ones who pay the bill for it. People around the country are occupied by their District Courts, by their courts. The labor party thinks it has a value that they're decentralised and lying around the whole country. The government has put down a commission without representatives from the small object rights. Why did the government choose to set up a commission to look at the structure and content of the courts throughout the country, without the smallest courts being represented?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e664	When you're able to concentrate your resources on the core business, at least in my world it's pretty good. The most important thing is that they keep the judicious year works, and there has been a growth. There's also been a growth in the number of investigators. In Norwegian courts, there are now more people working with the core tasks than before. We spend less money on administration. It may seem disappointing to the representative, but let us go to the results. In the first half of 2019, we see that the aim of Stortinget is to deal with proceedings throughout the country, both in disputes and in criminal proceedings. That's a positive thing. But in some District Courts, you're above this goal, and then we have to work to make sure that the District Courts that are over come under. It's not like there's any crisis in Norwegian courts.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e671	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e677	About 80,000 people live with dementia today, and we can expect that number to double in 20 years. Then it's our foremost task as politicians to give these people and their relatives a good everyday life. One of the most important measures and tools we politicians have had to provide patients and relatives with a safe and healthy everyday life where they can master their own situation is day-time activity. The red-green government set up the grant scheme, which made it a shattering layer between municipalities and the state to establish these places. Demen plan 2020 estimates that 9 200 places are needed. About half of these places are established today. From the new year, the grant scheme will be terminated, while the legal requirement for day-to-day activities will enter into force. My question is: why do the Minister of the Elderly and the Government make it more difficult to secure people with dementia and their relatives a safe everyday life?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e686	If there's something this government has done, it's making sure that we've got better dementia care in Norway. We have taken the initiative to start user schools and related schools in many places in Norway, which is important for those who get sick, because it is a traumatic situation to experience getting dementia. It is also difficult for relatives. Learning to live with the disease is important. This government has also proposed that we develop a daily activity offer around the whole country, and it is quite right that the representative Moflag says, that from 1 January all municipalities will have it. So far you have had earmarked funds, but from the new year this money has been put into the municipal framework – so they do not disappear – so that the municipalities can get them that way. It is an important offer – for those involved, so that they get out, but it is also very important for the relatives. What we know is that many people get tired, that it's a big responsibility to live with someone who's a dent, and that you're simply dependent on getting relief if you're going to do it over time. That is why we are now also working on a related strategy. I think that's some of the key in the future, that we have to take even better care of those who are related. There are tens of thousands of people in Norway today. There are children, there are young people, there are adults, there are older people — there are people in all categories who feel that one of them they are happy with is sick and need help. So the government is doing a lot in this area. We are now also working on a new plan of dementia, and I am looking forward to submitting it now to take another step further in the work of giving demente a better daily life.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e697	The problem is that the municipalities that have set up a daily offer and have been early out there are punished by this government, for the amount transferred to the local council, correspond to only half of the places that are needed, and this amount is lubricated in addition to the municipalities regardless of the number of day seats they have set up. This does not promote municipalities that have been out early and set up such places before the legal requirement came. There's not enough money to cover the whole need, so we need 9,200 places. The funding allocated to the municipal framework is less than half. My question is, why does the Minister for the Elderly lower the ambitions on behalf of people with dementia and their relatives, and is the Minister for the Elderly satisfied that we are only halfway to the goal?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e704	This government is not satisfied with that, and that is why we are now making a legal requirement that you have to have this kind of offer in all the municipalities of the country. It's not right that we lower our ambitions. On the contrary, we are now reversing the ambitions by demanding that the municipalities that have not yet received such an offer have to have the next year. And there are an incredible number of great actions. You have the traditional ones, who are in hospital, day-care facilities there, you have farm practices that are used as a arena because older people who may have grown up on a farm and have a lot of good feelings about it, can come out and participate in farm work and get a lot of good experiences there, and you have other offers for those who are younger, who have completely different needs, who are healthy and fast as fleas and want to go on mountain trips and be more active. That means that the offer must be defective. It hits different groups, and that's what we want to do. The ambitions have been increased and not lowered.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e709	There will be follow-up questions – Tuva Moflag.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e714	We agree that there are many incredibly good offers out there, and what the relatives and those who themselves are affected by dementia, fears, is that these offers should be gone now that the money is not guaranteed. So then I will end with the following questions to the Minister for the Elderly: Can the Minister guarantee that people who currently have a daily offer funded by the grant scheme will not lose it?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e719	After all, the municipalities decide at last what measures they want to take in their municipality. I hope – and I will send a call to Kommune-Norway – that the day-time activities centres that are successful, that are well-like and that mean a lot to those who are there in everyday life, will be maintained. So the money hasn't disappeared, they've been added to the municipal framework. This is a task that the municipalities have to follow up, and I have hopes and confidence that they will actually do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e724	The oral question procedure is now over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e738	There will be some changes to the questionnaire, and the President will refer to the electronic question list in this section. The changes were as follows: Question 7, from the representative Jan Bøhler to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, has been withdrawn. Question 8, from the representative of Åsmund Aukrust to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be raised by the representative of Mani Husaini. Question 10, from the representative Sigbjørn Gülsvik to the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, has been transferred to the Minister for Economic Affairs, who is directly responsible. Question 12, from the representative of Åsunn Lyngedal to the Minister for Transport, will be taken up by the representative of Kirsti Leirtrø. Question 13, from the representative Nina Sandberg to the Minister for Research and Higher Education, must be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e758	‘The government will reduce the grant to the crew standard. Kindergartens have used funds that are expected to be covered, and private kindergartens that have used their own resources to increase adulthood may face challenges. The government’s financing of the norm differs from the premise for the introduction of the teacher’s norm, the Øie Committee and the dissemination of the future kindergarten. Is the government council concerned about the economy of private kindergartens as a result of the cut or that crew density may decrease due to a lack of funding?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e765	We have a lot of good kindergartens, but we know that quality and staffing vary too much. In the past, there was no national minimum number of employees in kindergartens; this has been handled by the government. Manning standards were introduced on 1 August 2018 and kindergartens were in time until 1 August 2019 to comply with the norm. Statistics for 2018 show that the norm works and that there are more adults per child. On average, the standard was already met and funded in municipal kindergartens at national level by the introduction of the norm. Private kindergartens receive, on average, the same appropriations as municipal kindergartens. The Government’s proposal for a standard of living follows the same principles and ratios as proposed by the Kinderhagen Law Committee in 2012 and as proposed by the Stoltenberg Government in 2013. The cost calculation and the device have been the same since 2012 and are in line with the guidance on state governance of municipalities and county municipalities. The Government therefore considers that the Staff Code is fully financed. The operating grants of private kindergartens are calculated on the basis of expenditure in municipal kindergartens in the same municipality two years before the grant. Most private kindergartens could therefore achieve the same crew as municipal kindergartens without increased grants. However, when the norm was introduced in 2018, many municipalities did not meet the staffing requirement in municipal kindergartens. The private kindergartens in these municipalities received operating grants adapted to an understaffing to meet the norm. The Government therefore introduced a earmarked grant for the period 2018-2020. From 2017 to 2018, there has been a large reduction in the number of non-mandate municipalities from 106 in 2017 to 31 in 2018. In 2020, the operating grant for private kindergartens is based on the municipal accounts figures from 2018. This means that almost all the private kindergartens in 2020 will receive municipal grants reflecting the norm. The Ministry of Knowledge has estimated that the total increase in operating grants to private kindergartens could be about 630 million. in 2020 as a result of increased crewing in municipal kindergartens. 2020 is also the last year of the operating grant. In the context of the large increase in municipal support, I believe it is natural to step down the temporary staff allowance in 2020. In the context of the phasing-out of the grant in 2020, the Government shall at the same time open up the possibility for the County of Denmark, on application by the municipality, to allocate in exceptional cases discretionary funds to private or non-profit kindergartens if they experience financial difficulties as a result of the Staff Regulations in 2020. I believe it has been well arranged to ensure that private kindergartens have good conditions to meet the crew standard.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e784	The government of Stoltenberg II described in Meld. St. 24 for 2012–2013 compensation for crew standards. Among other things, they wrote that proposals for appropriations would be promoted in the annual government budgets. It is therefore demonstrably wrong that the Solberg Government uses the same funding principles as the Stoltenberg Government in its time. The right has always been opposed to receiving grants for the implementation of the Staff Code. Now the grant is cut to staff standards, and there are several challenges to it. One is that the government has probably miscalculated, they've at least used a very creative calculation, because what they're doing is taking a snapshot from the end of the year to the bottom of the cut, even though the subsidies that private kindergartens get are based on the costs of municipalities throughout the year. There are probably twice as many kindergartens located in a non-standard municipality as the government claims. Now the government takes self-criticism and will go through the facts for example. the so-called spectacle play. Will the Council of State do the same if it turns out that they have missed the calculation and are wrong about cutting the standard?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e793	No, there's no reason. We have always stressed that our calculation is an estimate, and it has been underlined in the answers given to the Stortinget. Although it was to be assumed that the whole annual increase in the number of municipal kindergartens occurred in mid-2018, increases in operating grants to private households are still estimated to be higher than the government's proposal for a reduction in the subsidy to the standard of living. That is the point; this grant should last three years, 2018, 2019 and 2020. That means that 2020 is the last year, and then it is natural that it is now escalating down seen in the light of the fact that the vast majority of municipal kindergartens comply with the standard of manning – I hope the Workers' Party also enjoys that. This means that the contribution to the private kindergartens needs to be reflected to a much greater extent in the operating grant. Let me also underline that next year's grant, which is the transitional scheme, will go to small private kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e800	It does not help a private kindergarten located in a municipality that did not comply with the manning norm, and thus does not meet its implementation costs, that the government considers that the norm is met on average. It has very little to say for the Executive Director or the employees of the nursery who may have used savings and equity to increase adulthood, more employees, and who now experience that the grant is being cut. The challenge with what the government is doing is to calculate the grant – or estimate, as the Council of State now says – on the basis that the population of municipalities increased from 1 January 2018, while the norm would start to work from 1 August 2018. Thus, there are major challenges for the kindergartens who have expected this. They have reduced predictability, and we don't know enough about the consequences of this cut. I wonder – in this job that the Council of State and the Government have done – if the Council of State has an overview of what kind of cut we can expect private kindergartens in particular to do in order to meet the standard of manpower without that grant?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e807	In 2017, there were 106 municipalities that had not complied with the recruitment norm, in 2018 there were 31 municipalities. This means that the vast majority of municipalities in 2018 complied with the Staff Code, which means that the grant to the private kindergartens in 2020 will reflect the implementation of the Manning Code. But then we maintain a grant of just over 100 million. kr, which will be targeted at small private kindergartens. In addition, if there is the standard of manpower causing any financial challenges, the municipality may apply to the County for grants. Let me stress that if the Workers' Party has such great care for the private kindergartens, they can also set up in the municipalities, not propose to support proposals for the recommuneration of private kindergartens. It is also fully possible for the Workers' Party in the municipalities to provide better facilities for private kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e819	‘The Government of the Granavolden platform writes that it will ‘develop dental care further and gradually extend the protection systems’. The dental benefits were reduced by 160 million. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 100000. Hardly did this go beyond permanent illness with greatly reduced ability to self-care for their dental health. The government is now notifying 130 million. new cuts in support of dental regulation for children and young people in the ‘ready-to-use’ group. Why does the government’s government budget for 2020 break the promises of the Granavolden platform?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e826	The government does not break the promises of the Granavolden platform. Over the six years we've been running Norway, we've continuously expanded the health care systems within dental care, and it's a work that's going to continue. The social security scheme based on severely reduced self-care capacity in persons with a long-term illness or with a long-term disability is an estimate. As the representative of Mørland points out, the cost of this group has fallen by about 160 million. kr from 2017 to 2018. The scheme has existed for many years, with limited conditions for social benefits. Before 2008, this was part of the contribution scheme in the social security system. From 2008 onwards, the scheme was converted to dental treatment from public health, and complicated procedures and pre-consenting were completed before treatment. Lasting conditions covered by the scheme were also exemplified, e.g.: paralysis, revmatism, brain damage and severe mental illness. In 2008, they paid $8 million. kr in social benefits under this scheme. Four years later, expenditure increased to 19 million. kr. I'd say it's a long step from 19 million. SEK in 2012 to over 200 million. kr in 2017. In 2013, the red-green government introduced fees for all patients with persistently impaired self-care. The level of benefit per patient was much higher than before. At the same time, the Ministry eased the requirement for a specialist's declaration. The intention was good, but the effect was overwhelming. From 2012 to 2017, the payments were more than doubled, to 210 million. kr. The number of recipients of reimbursement increased from about 7000 in 2014 to about 14000 in 2017. My reaction to this was to clarify that patients with dental frights were not part of the scheme. Patients with severe fear of dental treatment have not been part of the scheme before, and they are not. Firstly, dental frights are not included as a sufficient diagnosis or condition of any of the current public-security benefits schemes. Secondly, in line with its own policies and the Stortinge decision, the government has built up a psychological and dental treatment offer in the County Dental Service. This offer is for persons with severe dental distress and those who have suffered torture or abuse. The government has taken the necessary steps to ensure that state resources are used correctly. This scheme was used by some dentists far beyond what was intended for the scheme. The representative of Mørland believes that the government is breaking with the Granavolden platform. It's wrong, as I said. Neither the conversion of this scheme nor the winding-up of social benefits to cosmetic dental regulation are violations of the government platform. In my view, it is important that a person ensures that rights-based schemes in the public sector are correctly applied. At the same time, in the 2020 budget, we are proposing to further expand the offer to patients with severe dental frights who have suffered, among other things. assault and torture.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e845	I thank you for your answer. I notice that in the government's own government budget, the payments from the people's money have fallen into this field. In the case of the self-care disabled group for their own dental health, the government would save $30 million. kr. They saved 161 million. And I guess most things say. With regard to the new budget, which was recently presented, the most upsetting dental regulation has been cut. Now 10,000 children and young people are at risk of losing support for dental regulation. It's going to go out on families with bad advice. This group of children and young people belongs to group C, defined as having a ‘ready-to-use’. If the government had increased support for the two groups with even greater needs, it would have been an interesting discussion. And now, the government is like they're cutting the support for something that's a mercenary. The government sent out a press release entitled ‘Removes support for cosmetic dental regulation’. My question to the Council of State is: Where does the expression «cosmetic dental regulation» come from for group C, which is defined to have a «clear need»? Has that definition changed, or is this just a concept that the Council of State itself has invented?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e854	No, the term «cosmetic dental regulation» comes from the report of our top professional body in this field, namely the Health Directorate. It's not an expression that I've come up with, it's taken from the Health Directorate recommendations and report. In the case of families with poor advice, it is precisely those affected by the Labour Party's policies in this area. If the Workers' Party insists that Group C continues to receive social benefits as at present, they will experience a continuing pressure to implement cosmetically justified dental regulations, where parents take over 60 pst. of the bill itself. This, of course, has parents with a good economic ability to cover, but for families with a bad economy, this means a big cut in their economy. I am amazed that the Workers' Party, which otherwise, in other areas, is occupied with body pressure, in this area is not at all willing to listen to the leading trade union community, which points out that this is cosmetically justified.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e867	So that means that if you ask the Health Directorate, they're going to do well because it's been misleading to use the term "clear need" on those who are now losing support for dental regulation, and that the right thing would be that that group had been categorized under "cosmetic needs"? It surprises me very much, because when I have seen pictures from e.g. The dental association, which has illustrated who this is, is my impression that there is something quite different than cosmetics. State Council Höie later as if none of those in Group C who are now losing support are going to start with dental regulation. Is it true that the feedback he has received is that none of the 10,000 children and young people will need dental regulation anymore, or many of them are going to carry out dental regulation anyway, because they feel a need for it, but that they have to pay 100 pst. and no longer receives the aid of 40 p.m., as the scheme has been so far? Why does the Council of State not also strengthen the arrangements of Group A and Group B if he believes it is important to give everyone the opportunity of proper dental regulation when they need it?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e874	I am absolutely convinced that very few of these children are going to carry out dental regulation after this. It is so simple to look only at our neighbouring countries, where a significantly smaller proportion of youth schools carry out this type of dental regulation. I also do not think that school dentists would recommend parents to implement a dental regulation that is cosmetically justified and for which they do not receive any public reimbursement. Of course, school students today feel – rightly – an obligation to inform their parents that the child has a situation that would allow it to receive public support for dental regulation. Parents will then be able to see that this is justified on health grounds, as the Health Directorate report shows that it is not. It is in that report that the term ‘cosmetically justified’ comes from — both ‘cosmetic’ and ‘esthetic’. It should be remembered by the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e884	‘The Minister of State has stated in Stortinget that air ambulance preparedness is better now than before and that the air ambulance service has been strengthened. This is a provocation against people and professionals in the north, who have to live in the situation of an air ambulance service that is unstable even three months after the operator exchange and where aircraft are almost daily declared out for different reasons. How long will the Council of State accept that the availability of the air ambulance service is not in line with the agreement?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e891	Like some others, the representative Borch has chosen to include only fragments of what the Prime Minister actually replied to in Stortinget. Among other things, Erna Solberg said:\t\t You can change the ‘There is thus better preparedness in the air ambulance service now than it was in the past because we have strengthened the air ambulance.’ The Prime Minister is absolutely right in what she said. She pointed to the strengthening of the air ambulance service that has happened to the new contract. Today's contract costs 100 million. kr more a year than the previous contract. All ambulance aircraft have been replaced by new and more modern ambulance aircraft. One of the propeller aeroplanes has been replaced by a jet aeroplane with significantly better speed, range and load capacity. It also frees up capacity in the remaining propeller aeroplanes, inter alia. to the short-range network. In addition, a ground watch regime has been established with pilots who can be deployed in case of sudden illness, with one crew in Alta at night and one in Gardermoen at daytime. This has not been done before. The Prime Minister further stated in his statement that it is clear that the supplier is responsible for delivering under the contracts they have and that we expect normal preparedness to be provided in the future. So this is a clear statement that it has not been delivered well enough, and that we have expectations that the operator will arrive at the agreed level in his readiness. No one disputes that there have been challenges related to operator switching. In August and September Babcock delivered about 90 pst. standby on ambulance aeroplanes. It's neither the Air Ambulance Service, Health North, nor the government satisfied. The main cause of standby failure has been the technical failure of one and the same navigation system in the new aeroplanes. The error has led to 30 days of less preparedness. This error has now been fixed in all aeroplanes. Better preparedness is therefore expected as early as this week. It is very unprofitable for Babcock not to deliver under contract. The company is therefore working hard to improve its availability in both the short and long term. Although Babcock has more pilots than air transport had, they now employ even more. The contracting entity, the Air ambulance service, has frequent meetings with Babcock to ensure that preparedness becomes acceptable as soon as possible. I have also asked for – and get – daily reporting on the emergency situation. This is also publicly available on the air ambulance service websites.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e907	The Prime Minister in the Questionnaire last week had a chance to respond to the emergency situation surrounding the air ambulance. The center party challenged her whether she would repeat the words that the emergency in the air ambulance had never been better. The Prime Minister said that the air ambulance offer is a better offer than what we've had in the past. If the air ambulance offer is a better offer on the paper, it helps very little when the reality is quite different. It shows all the deviations from the daily emergency reports. In their own words, they write on the air ambulance service’s own websites that preparedness has been weakened. Does the Minister for Health think that the actual preparedness today is better after the change of operator?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e914	No one, neither the Air ambulance service, Health North, nor the Prime Minister has ever tried to deny that there are challenges in getting sufficient coverage under the contract. There is also no doubt that today’s contract will improve overall preparedness. All the work is done to meet the requirements of the contract. We see that some of the problems that have led to one not being able to deliver, among other things. the technical challenges with the aeroplanes have been resolved. At the same time, we experience that there are still challenges with good enough coverage, and we expect this to be solved. It is part of the story that in the case of the previous change of operator, when air transport regained the contract, it was also a year before they were able to deliver under contract.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e921	I don't think it's fair to argue that today's paper has a better preparedness than the actual situation, when you clearly see reports that there are planes on the ground due to technical faults or lack of crewing. The Government has chosen to ignore the Emergency Committee's advice on the risks of tenders. Advice from professionals on setting business transfer requirements was ignored in order to ensure competence and stability. Nor did the government intervene and got to stop the tendering process that had serious deficiencies. The weakened readiness experienced today is and was alerted. The question is whether the government and the Minister of Health take this matter seriously, and whether the Minister of Health wants to complain about all those who now have a weakened air ambulance preparedness.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e928	The government is definitely not dishonest in this area. However, there is a need to refute the claims that come from more people that today’s contract is worse than the previous one — qualitatively related to preparedness. That's not right. That's the opposite that's right. This is also no savings contract, on the contrary. We have given priority to spending more money on the air ambulance service in the years ahead. In addition, I have reintroduced the system that there should be daily reporting to me on the situation. It is also publicly available on the Internet. We have been very clear that we are not satisfied with the delivery. In the case of the emergency committee, there was a sample that was reduced by the previous government, of which the centre party was part. Their schedule would have made it absolutely impossible to follow the recommendations of a public investigation into the acquisition of the air ambulance service in advance of the termination of a new contract. So the previous government almost takes responsibility for a team of schedules that made it impossible.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e940	‘The Minister of Health has stated the following about the situation in the air ambulance service: ‘As far as I am aware, the reduced capacity has not contributed to patients’ failure to perform their duties.’ At the same time, stories about severely damaged patients who have been sent by plane alone have been published through the media. Finnmark Medical Association reports that the aberration system is not working. Can the Council of State guarantee that the air ambulance situation has not affected patients?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e947	Hospital doctors decide whether a patient should travel by scheduled transport or by ambulance. Before the operator switching, the Air ambulance service sent out an information letter stating that the patient’s medical needs are always to be taken into account for transport choices. The air ambulance service has an air traffic coordination centre co-located with AMK in Tromsø, but the central unit only maintains the operational coordination of the ambulance flights. It is the doctors who control the use of the aircraft according to medical needs. Health Nord has informed that they are not aware that some patients have been harmed as a result of the change in operator. Patient transport has been satisfactorily resolved through the use of available resources and through good coordination between regional AMK and the air coordination centre in Tromsø. The representative Toppe referred to a frequently referred case of a patient who was transferred from a hospital in Finland to the University Hospital North Norway by scheduled flights. The fact is that the patient was picked up by the helicopter after the accident itself, but was later considered to be able to use scheduled transportation when transferring between the hospitals. From a professional medical team, no air ambulance was requested, although aviation resources were available at that time. So there was no lack of flight capacity behind the decision to use scheduled flights. Despite the fact of the matter, it appears unrelentingly as a ‘proof’ of the failure of preparedness this summer. At the beginning of October, the availability of ambulance aircraft was again slightly variable, for several reasons. Then the repatriation of patients, especially from the University Hospital of Nord-Norway, was prioritised down. This may have resulted in a slightly longer hospital stay at UNN pending the return of air transport to a local hospital. As a result of the flight situation, there may have been some increased cover at the university hospital, but it has not been reported that patients have suffered damage or complications. We have several aberration systems that can be used to report anomalies on ambulance aircraft. Of course, serious health incidents are reported to the Health Authority. In Finnmark, where there is a call for anomalies with ambulance aircraft, there is already a portal for the notification of interaction events between municipalities and the Finnish State Hospital. This should be used by local authorities for the purpose of notifying non-conformities. Local doctors may also send out anomalies directly to health businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e960	I note that the Council of State in its response cannot guarantee that the air ambulance situation has not affected patients, despite the fact that he has said in several reading posts and in other statements that patients are receiving the treatment they should receive, the treatment they need. It is worrying when the Minister of Health does not express any concern about patient safety while at the same time the medical unit in the county gets the most out of it, the Finnmark Medical Association, sees it necessary to send a warning of concern due to the unstable preparedness. They fear that this will affect patients and must report that the aberration system is not working. When the aberration system does not work for those who work in the service, how can the Minister of Health suggest that patients get the help they need?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e965	It is too early to draw the conclusion of the representative that the system of deviation is not working. The warning from the doctors in Finnmark is, of course, taken in the greatest seriousness, both by Health North and by the County Board. It will of course be followed. In my previous reply, I informed the representative that there are already several alert mechanisms, including: a separate Finnmark Hospital web-portal that is easily accessible, where municipal doctors can report this type of deviation, and I would like to request that it be used in the type of cases that you think a deviation is being experienced. I can't do anything but answer from the information I get from, among other things. Health North, that you're not familiar with any serious events as a result of this. I say what happens – what happens normally – when planes are on the ground, is that a priority is urgent. This means that some patients can stay longer and wait for planned transfers between hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e974	The Council of State asks us not to conclude, but it is the Minister of Health who has concluded that the change in operator has not affected patients. What I mean isn't just uplifting to listen to, it's not good for those who work in the service, and it's in the situation they do. The point is that the Council of State has concluded that no patients have suffered an overload, while he should know that the aberration system is not working. There's nothing a state council should be informed of by a troubled medical unit in Finnmark. I asked for honesty in this matter – if you don't know, one should not be concluded either. And I want to ask you again: can the Council of State guarantee that the situation now does not affect patients?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e979	We are not familiar with any serious situation where this has gone beyond patients. But, as I have also said several times, the government has been very clear on the challenges with the capacity, both when we planned the extra capacity that made it possible for us to solve the problems in a good way over July, which was very critical, and also all the way after – we have been open and honest about the situation. I am now, too, and as I have said repeatedly, we are not aware that this has had any serious consequences for patients. But in the same way that when you have challenges with these kinds of services, it's a priority, and that means, among other things. the planned assignment to move patients between hospitals is always the lowest priority, while urgent tasks are prioritised.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e987	‘In a letter to the Finnmark Medical Association, the director of the HF Air Ambulance Service writes that he has ‘great understanding that the members of the Finnmark Medical Association are concerned about the ambulance flight readiness since the time after the change of operator has been marked by unstable delivery. We are sorry about this.» From the government, however, we have not heard any similar concessions or complaints that the air ambulance offer has not been good enough in the last three months. Will the State Council now follow the example and regret of the air ambulance director?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e994	That's not right, what the representative says about the government not being clear on the challenges that are. That's what I've been through all along. Of course, we are not satisfied with the level of the so far delivered standby that has been from 1 July this year. We feel, however, that it is also working well to achieve goals and deliver what is the required level of preparedness. A transition to a new contract and a new operator will always be demanding in the air ambulance service. Ten years ago, it went beyond one year into the contract period before the previous operator, Air Transport AS, had the new aircraft ready for use – despite the fact that the company was actually also running the service until a new contract. So it was the same company that won the contract that used to run it. Nevertheless, they spent one year delivering under contract. Therefore, the air ambulance service has been very aware that challenges will arise in connection with the transition to a new contract, and not least to a new operator. A number of actions were therefore planned that could be implemented to ensure the necessary preparedness during the transition phase. However, the standby failure has stretched a little longer in time than we expected, and it is due to several conditions. There have been, in particular, technical errors on aircraft, but also the lack of pilots for some guards, and some illness on the airsickness nurses. This has given somewhat less room for planned missions with aeroplanes than is normal. However, after all the information we have, patients have received help. The main cause of standby failure has been the technical failure of a navigation system in the new aeroplanes. The error has led to 30 days of less preparedness, but is now in cooperation with the manufacturer fixed in all aeroplanes. Better preparedness is therefore expected from this week on. The air ambulance service that the contracting entity is responsible for the contractual delivery of the air carriers operating in the service. I fully understand that the contracting entity is now sorry, and I am sorry that the delivery has not been as expected. But the important thing is that one can work to get the readiness to get up to the expected level. I clearly expect, and also experience, that both the Air ambulance service and the operator are working purposefully to achieve that. Of course, it is to be regretted that one and the same equipment failure on the new aeroplanes alone has resulted in a percentage lower emergency level in August and September and has given a more unstable emergency situation. However, I follow this progress in preparedness closely and have also asked for daily status reports, which I get. These are also made publicly available on the air ambulance service websites.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e1009	I'm a little uncertain about whether or not the Council of State regrets, but if he apologizes, it is wise, for this is a serious situation for us who live in such a zone as this has become. It's also provoked us, what's happening. I want to ask the Council of State: what will the Council of State do to avoid making the same mistake?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e1014	The switch to a new operator knew we were going to be demanding. That is why considerable resources were also deployed in July, just so this should not go beyond the population, especially in North Norway, which is completely dependent on this service. I was strongly involved in this all the way to make sure that those plans were good, and that they were put to work. The experience after July also suggests that the plans worked. The July preparedness was good, the patients got help, and the number of assignments carried out in July was higher than usual. In the months that follow, I also experience that the Air ambulance service has done what they think is necessary to ensure that it is well prepared. But it's clear it's demanding for those who work in the service, when it's unpredictable. That's all there's to regret.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e1021	Let's go to winter. In Finnmark it is such that the weather changes very quickly, it goes from quiet to storm in a moment. I expect the new company to be as good as the previous company was under such often extreme conditions. Can the Council of State guarantee that the population of Finnmark can be at least as safe now, with the new ambulance flight offer, as they were in the past?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e1026	Yes, everything has at least been facilitated by increasing preparedness in the contract that we now have. That means there's better extra crew, and there's brand new planes. It is also very gratifying that one succeeded in having most of the pilots join the new company. It means that their long-standing, important competence, which is the key in this service, is also the competence to solve the mission this winter. It's one of the things that makes me feel very confident that the Air Ambulance Service here will do everything it can to make the population feel safe this winter too, not least thanks to the fact that the vast majority of the pilots who have a unique competence to solve this mission joined the new company.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e1034	‘The contract between the HF Air ambulance service and Babcock Scandinavian AirAmbulance requires availability. After three full months of operation, the company has delivered a result far below the contract requirement, which has imposed increased costs on State rescue services and lower preparedness on the population. What economic curtailment has the State so far required from the company for lack of availability?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e1041	Health undertakings always charge their operators financially for the part or parts of the service not provided under the requirements of the contract. The curtailment mechanisms – which the representative Lundtägen has in place – are linked to a lack of preparedness. For each aeroplane on standby, the operator may not have more than 12 hours of outsourcing per month on the basis of planned technical maintenance, nor more than 12 hours of outsourcing on the basis of missing personnel per month, i.e. up to 12 plus 12 hours in one month. In the case of unforeseen technical failures, second-hand aeroplanes shall be introduced as soon as possible and no later than 12 hours. Emergency interruptions that last longer than this trigger financial requirements or curtailment to the operator. After Babcock took over the ambulance flight contract on 1 July, it has been claimed that the company only surrendered towards 70 pst. ready in July. This is not true. That figure represents only the preparedness they got from the new Norwegian planes. In parallel, Babcock delivered standby with two Swedish planes from its parent company. After Babcock took over the contract, the company delivered a standby of 80 pst. in July, at the top of 90 pst. in August and above 90 pst. of September. A total of leased-in resources under the auspices of the HF and Health Nord Air ambulance Service, including from the Defence Department, were delivered to a total of 98 pst. for the month of July. In addition, a total of 929 flight hours were logged into the ambulance flight service in July. That's the maximum number of flight hours for July in the last six years. A total of 724 patients were flown, compared with 737 and 733 in July of the previous two years. Follow-up to the contract is, of course, also considered to be a commercial relationship between the Air ambulance service and the operators. Air ambulance services must deal with both old and new operators in order to assess the management of actual delivered standby and any additional costs. This is, as stated, well regulated in the contract, but may also be subject to discussion and disagreement. Air ambulance management has given priority to focusing on preparedness in the response-intensive period we have been in. This means that no figures are yet available for claims or settlement for non-delivery for the period in question. It is a work that the Air ambulance Service will start when they find that it is right to give priority to the type of follow-up to the contract and not, as it is now, to give priority to safe preparedness for the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e1050	There were a lot of claims here. It is said that it is always burdened. There is no claim submitted, it is not clear what you have requested, one has not received a response to what has been refunded by the company. So there is no answer to the question: what economic shortening has the state so far demanded from the company for lack of availability? It is reasonable to note that the requirement was not met in July, August, September and so far in October. So we're in a situation where, in terms of business secrets, what is required is not disclosed. I repeat the question: has the State required the non-fulfilment of the contract by date?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e1055	No, this is not in the interests of any business secrets, of which the representative tries to give the impression. It is a priority of the Administration of the Air ambulance Service to now give priority to preparedness for the population in the demanding situation. But, as I said in my answer, one will, of course, require the operators, both the previous and the current, for non-delivery under contract. One has not prioritised that work now, but that does not mean that the suppliers, neither the previous one nor the current one, will escape these requirements. I'm a little surprised if the Center Party believes that, in the situation that has occurred, one should now spend time accounting and making demands instead of securing the preparedness of the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e1060	The most important thing is to ensure preparedness. The head of the HF Air Ambulance Service, Øyvind Juell, said to NRK Finnmark yesterday at 8 p.m. 23 that today’s standby is not subject to an agreement with the operator Babcock. My further question is: what are the rates for curtailment? What is the financial burden on the company in cases where it is not possible to deliver an agreed product? On October 15, at 3 p.m. 0930 was that there were three standby breaks for the next 24 hours for both the churches, Alta and Bodø. The reason was lack of crew. The Council of State has said that it has been established for herds. Can the Council of States confirm the establishment of a rear guard? Then why not use the rear guard, so that the standby is maintained, for example for the three aeroplanes yesterday?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e1067	I'm very pleased that the Center Party has decided that they agree with the priority that one first concentrates on preparedness, and that one starts working on the financial requirements behind it, when one has the time and capacity to do so, in the HF Air ambulance service. I presented the contract in my original response. Of course, it'll always be a discussion. Some of the cases where there has been insufficient preparedness are due, inter alia, to: disease of the nurses of the aeroplane. It's not a delivery from the operator, it's a delivery from the health business. This means that the HF Air ambulance service must sit down with both the previous and the current operator and go through the specific situations, discuss who is responsible for not being delivered under contract, and then come up with what has been delivered, and what abbreviation to apply.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e1083	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e1091	This question, from the representative of Åsmund Aukrust to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, is raised by the representative of Mani Hussaini.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e1096	There have been some developments in the matter since the question was asked, but I still allow myself to ask it: ‘9. In October, Turkey launched an invasion of the Kurdish territories in northern Syria. Kurdish-dominated SDF and YPG have fought side by side with Western forces both in Syria and Iraq. The invasion of Turkey seems destabilizing in a region that now needs peace and stability. We are at risk of IS soldiers escaping from Kurdish prison camps. The EU is now asking Turkey to stop the attacks on the Kurds. Several Nordic countries have condemned the invasion. Will the Minister of Foreign Affairs, such as Denmark, condemn the invasion of Turkey, and what will the Norwegian authorities do about the serious situation in the region?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e1105	This is going to be a repeat of a discussion we had in the spontaneous question time, but I'd like to take it one more time. Norway has condemned Turkey's actions, and we were immediately out demanding a halt in the operation. What we also did was we called in the Turkish ambassador to the U.D. on the morning of October 10th, the day after the invasion began. That same morning we suspended all applications for export licences for military or multi-use goods for military use. We were one of the very first countries that did, and we were also the first NATO country that did it, because we believe it is important when the situation is like it, to take all the precautions we can. I share the concern of the representative Hussaini both for the civilian population and for the humanitarian situation. We have a strong humanitarian commitment from Norway in the area, but we also see with great concern that the cross-border aid that can now come in from Iraq is severely limited. Many of the aid organisations that have been present in the area are withdrawing. Some local staff remain, but very many are withdrawn and withdrawn to Iraq. It is understandable from the situation, but it obviously makes it even more difficult to obtain humanitarian and life-saving help, especially for those in border areas. We also see that Turkey has now taken control of several cities in the central part of the so-called zone that they want to establish, which is a more than 30 km long zone along the border. What is also a clear concern we have expressed is how this now puts us in the fight against ISIL. We already know that ISIL is present in many places, even though they don't have the same territorial control or the foothold they had. But the fact that SDF is now fighting against Turkey instead of dealing with the threat that ISIL still represents, and that Norway has been very clear on it is not over, represents a challenge both because we can come back to a situation where ISIL gets foothold again in a region that is sorely in need of stability, and because we see that it can go beyond what is now Kurdish watchkeeping in part of the detention camps. From there, media reports — which, for natural reasons, given the inaccuracy of the situation, have not yet been definitively confirmed — suggest that prisoners should have escaped from one of the camps, which is approximately 25 miles from Al-Hol.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e1118	Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for a good answer. I would also like to thank you for being early in stopping arms exports to Turkey and for coming out and condemning the situation, after the EU. It's now done. What worries me is that you don't consider any more initiatives, because for every hour that goes, for every day that goes, innocent people get killed. We just don't have time to think about what's going on. Two different initiatives have been mentioned earlier today, but I can mention them again. One is financial sanctions against Turkey, the other is peacekeeping forces into northern Syria. Norway is a candidate for the UN Security Council, and then my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: is it such that the candidacy stands in the way of us being a propellant and proposing such initiatives, or can we actually use our candidacy to propose tough enforcement measures against what is happening now?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e1127	We can discuss when different countries condemned. I register to the extent that Sweden condemned this Thursday evening, while the Labour Party leader, Jonas Gahr Støre, did not do so until Sunday evening. The first reactions from Støre were that this was very critical of Turkey, while my first immediate reaction was that we demanded an immediate stop in the actions from Turkey. But then to the questions, which we also had in the spontaneous questioning. The question of penalties is a question that is now going to be discussed. There have been informal and formal meetings in NATO yesterday and today. There has been a meeting of the Security Council and it is expected that there will be a new meeting of the Security Council during the week. It is the Security Council which in that case may decide to implement that type of penalty. Our candidacy to the UN Security Council is in no way in the way of Norwegian foreign policy – rather the opposite. What we do in foreign policy is highly recognizable both before and after the candidacy, and it is also going to be in the future. This means that the clear position we have taken here is recognizable and clear Norwegian policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e1136	Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for your answer. There is no doubt that what is happening in northern Syria is ethnic cleansing of Kurds. On Saturday we learned that the Secretary-General of the party The Future Syria, Hevrin Khalaf, was killed by Turkish-supported militiamen. She was raped and stoned to death. All of this was filmed and later distributed through social media. We are witnesses to war crimes. The spokesman for the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, Rupert Colville, demanded an independent review of what happened. Colville has insisted that Turkey can be held responsible for war crimes committed by militias they control. Will the Foreign Minister take the initiative in an independent investigation into the liquidation of Hevrin Kahlaf and other Kurdish politicians in the last week?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e1145	In the last representative, Hussaini says, there is also a significant point that I was at in the spontaneous question hour, and that is that this has now been going on for a week. It is still difficult to get a full overview of both the ground situation and the different facts. It is important for us as well as for UN organisations and the UN as a whole to be identified. We have also clearly criticised Turkey's arrests by both opposition politicians and journalists who have criticized the operation. We see that to the extent that it blends into a pattern that we've criticised before, and that we repeat the criticism. The same is true when we have been clear that Turkey must respect international law. This includes, inter alia: to have a responsibility for proportionality in the event of attack. It's among those things that are probably going to be more highly discussed in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e1155	‘Through the media it has been found that a store in a large chain has had employees in work on 1 May to count goods without having been paid for it. How do the authorities work to reduce this kind of unprofessionalism in the workplace?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e1162	It is the responsibility of the employer to ensure that his employees are offered orderly and orderly pay and working conditions. Voluntary work is permitted in Norway and is typically carried out for organisations with a social purpose and for a shorter period. If the work is done for the employer with a paid job, it would not be natural to consider the work to be voluntary, especially if the employee is called upon to attend or to risk penalties for failure to attend. Work on 1 May is governed by the Law of 1 and 17 May. There is a specific regulation of pay obligations for this date. An employee who has performed normal work shall be remunerated with an ordinary salary and an addition of at least 50 pst. if no higher additions are apparent from the agreement. Tips on possible breaches of labour market rules can be sent to the Labour Inspectorate. The ETA is continuously working on control and guidance to help maintain a serious work life and may respond if regulatory breaches are detected. In general, I would like to stress that it follows a great responsibility to be an employer. Our employment regulation is based on employers ensuring compliance with the legislation and on order and seriousness of workplace conditions. It can also be helpful to get from the organisations in the labour market, both for employers and for employees. Through tripartite cooperation, the authorities support these important elements of our working life model.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e1175	I thank the Council of State for the answer. However, we have also recently seen Norwegian employers who do not pay overtime supplements for their employees in public holidays, and yesterday there was a case in which an employer who had not paid the statutory OTP, compulsory occupational pension, was given legal support, i.e. the court held that it was up to the employee to check that such things were paid. This puts employees in a rather demanding situation – that they take responsibility for the correctness of things. Then my question is: does the Council of State think that there are good enough arrangements, and what public body does the Council of State think should assist employees in such situations?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e1180	It is, as I said in my first answer, the employer who is responsible for complying with the laws and regulations, that wages are paid, and that the provisions of the Environmental Protection Act are followed in the workplace. To the extent that it is not done, employees can go via trustees, and if it is a big chain, as it was in the first answer, you can also go to the head office. If you do not agree there either, it is natural to go to the Labour Inspectorate for advice, help and guidance there. Which authority is responsible for assisting is a little dependent on what the issue is. We've had a hearing, among other things. a proposal to extend the competence of the Labour Inspectorate, i.e. decision-making powers and powers. If so, we will come back to Stortinget with a case of our own in the spring. These include: supervision of rentals, in respect of which the Labour Inspectorate has previously lacked competence, and there may be other supervision to follow-up in other areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e1187	I thank you again for the answer, but you don't go to the core of the problem here. These are workers who stay very alone. We have seen that the government has gone to work to increase the level of organization of work, and then you stay very alone. It is good that the Council of State wants to come to Stortinget with a case that will give the Labour Inspectorate a different competence, but then I ask: Is it relevant for the Council of State in that context also to give the Labour Inspectorate the decision-making competence in matters of private law? That's what this is all about.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e1192	When it comes to extending the competence of the Labour Inspectorate to rentals, among other things, it is new that the Labour Inspectorate should enter into the private law of the rentals. With regard to the point of degree of organisation, the government has not abandoned that work. On the contrary, we have set up a working group with the social partners to look at how we can jointly contribute to increasing the level of organisation of work in the future. That working group will now be working for a year, and hopefully they will make some recommendations, good advice, on actions and initiatives that we can take. Then we'll see how we're going to follow up on it. But I think it's natural that when we're going to discuss measures to increase the degree of organisation, we should do this together with the parties. It is the parties that are primarily responsible for recruiting their organisations, but to the extent that the authorities can assist, they should of course also be able to attend.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e1203	This question, from the representative Sigbjørn Gülsvik to the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, has been transferred to the Minister for Industry as the appropriate representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e1208	‘A new EU judgment, in a case in which Norway had observations, concludes that EU procurement legislation does not allow the setting of quantitative limits on subcontracting contributions. The Italian rule of law that the value of a contract to be performed by a subcontractor must not exceed 30 % is unlawful. Italy has, inter alia: argued that the rules are necessary in order to address an industry permeated by crime. What will be the impact of the EU judgment on Norway through the EEA?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e1215	Let me do the short summary first. It is that the judgment will not affect the provisions of the Norwegian Acquisitions Code and that the argument put forward by the European Court of Justice is largely in line with Norway’s intervention in the case. I look at this judgment with great interest. This is a preliminary ruling from the Court of Justice of the European Union on the understanding of the right to acquire. The decision will have an impact on EEA law and its understanding, in line with other judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union. As mentioned above, the reasoning of the European Court of Justice is largely in line with what we argued in Norway’s observations on the case. In that decision, the Court of Justice considers that the regulation of the acquisition directives is not exhaustive. This means that Member States can regulate the use of sub-contractors nationally if it is compatible with certain basic rules. It gives us room for action, among other things. to lay down national rules against crime at work. The government takes a very serious view of the crime of working life and of the unprofessional nature of the world of work. Therefore, procurement law contains a number of provisions to combat this. The government has, among other things: introduced a provision on restrictions on the number of stages of the supply chain in public contracts. The rule applies to vulnerable industries where we know that work-life crime is a particularly topical issue, and more specifically this limitation applies to construction works and clean-up contracts. I believe that this EU judgment has no significance for the Norwegian legislation. It is true that the Court found that the Italian scheme was not in line with EU law and that the decision is limited to Italian regulation. In the Norwegian procurement law, we regulate the use of subcontractors in another way, and I believe that our regulation is within the scope of the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e1228	What one sees in the Norwegian labour market is that there are quite alarming conditions in many industries: there is pressure on pay and working conditions, and there are situations both with social dumping and with work-life crime. Therefore, there is a need for good regulation, including: in the case of subcontractors, who are also involved in the response of the Council of State. The reasons we use in Norway are, of course, some of the same reasons that Italy used to have restrictions. There are some limitations other than those in Norway, but there are still some limitations. What is contained in the Norwegian legislation is Norwegian regulations, which do not follow the EU procurement directive, but which are the own regulations that Norway has provided, and where many municipalities in Norway have gone even further, precisely in order to ensure a serious working life. Based on its response, can the Council of States now guarantee that Norwegian law and Norwegian rules will not be amended as a result of EU judgment and other case-law?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e1235	If the representative had stopped before ‘other EU case law’ – that is, as I said very clearly in my speech – then in our opinion there is nothing in this judgment that will have consequences for the Norwegian procurement legislation. This is due, inter alia, to: a major difference between Norwegian and Italian legislation, which has now been convicted, is that we are constantly seeking to be proportional and, to put it simply, to target measures and regulations where we know there are difficulties and problems. We have every opportunity to do that, and we're going to keep doing that. It also means that if there are new industries and new areas where we see problems emerging, we also have the opportunity to regulate them appropriately. So I just have to add that this is a problem that the government is working with all the time. The Ministry of Industry also contributes to government strategies against the crime of working life, which include: because an unprofessional working life primarily affects serious Norwegian enterprises, not least small and medium-sized enterprises, alongside Norwegian workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e1242	The reason for the question is that a new judgment has been issued by the Court of Justice of the European Union in a case involving Norway. However, it is also not the first time that the European Court of Justice has made decisions relating to procurement legislation; it has also taken place in cases relating to, among others,: Lithuania, which has had limitations on the value of contracts used by subcontractors and whether subcontractors should use their own employees — i.e. also other types of limitations in the use of subcontractors. However, on the basis of what the Council of State now says, one can therefore expect that one of the Norwegian authorities should insist on what is applicable Norwegian legislation, and that State Buildings, Defence Buildings, Hospital Buildings and others who want to take advantage of the freedom of action of the Norwegian legislation are also free to do so within the framework of the EEA Agreement and that there is nothing in the EEA Agreement that would restrict Norway’s freedom of action. Can the Council of State guarantee that?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e1249	As I would like to repeat for the third time – I would also like to praise the representative to address this question – I think it is very good, because then we will have the opportunity to say something clear and clear: our procurement legislation – after all our assessments, also with the limitations that are there, and with the possibilities of combating labour-life crime and unprofessional actors, demanding a decent working life, etc. – is within our EEA obligations. It also means that the question of whether operators in Norway can use all the tools and instruments contained in the Norwegian legislation is unequivocally yes to the answer. On the question of whether we intend to change the procurement law as a result of this judgment, the answer is no.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e1257	‘Transfer of county road administration is a major x-factor in all counties’ budgets for next year. County Transport Council in Northern Ireland, Bent-Joacim Bentzen, says in a press release: "Three months before we're going to operate with a whole new organization, we don't know if we have the money to hire the people we need." Is the government satisfied that the financial framework for the transfer of responsibility for the county roads from the Vegvesen to the county municipalities is not in place in a situation where they are working on blasts to add next year's budget?»
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e1264	Let me first say that the reorganization that follows the task transfer from the State Road Service to the new populace regions is one of the biggest reorganizations we've had in the public sector in recent years. It is clear that extensive and demanding work is being carried out in dialogue between the State Road Administration and the county councils, which are now to take over. The government has previously announced that there will be money with the annual works that go from the State Road Administration to the county municipalities. This means that the process of conversion has been a priority for the counties until today. Then the government in the state budget for 2020 has announced that we will come back again as soon as possible with an additional number for it, which deals with all sides, including the financial transfers for the transport administration, in a separate case, so that the Storting can deal with it – if one wishes – in parallel with the state budget for 2020. This means that in the final clarification with which budgetary processes are always terminated, i.e. a large-scale process, it will be made possible for one to do so, and this will also be a good thing for the actors. That means that I believe that in spite of a relatively demanding process that has several risks, we have achieved a high-level transition: apart from 1,200 people today, we have agreed to work in the county municipalities. Today, the country uses 1,850 annual works to do this, so this is a shift that is demanding and extensive and has several risk elements in it, but which, after all, – against the pace at which implementation takes place – has gone quite well.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e1271	Predictability may not be the most widely used word for this reform. I do not think the message to the state politicians who are working to blow up budgets was ready. They have, of course, been impatiently asking for economic facts in the past, and then the answer has been that it will be in the state budget for 2020. Now they can risk not knowing anything until 10 November, when this supplement has time to arrive – another postponement, even more uncertainty. At the same time, the State Road Service reports serious consequences in the wake of the reform. The road director says in the VG today that the situation is critical and the risk is high. Is the planning of this reform and the reorganisation of the majority government very poorly managed, or is there a strategic impoverishment of both county and state road authorities?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e1276	Of course it isn't. I'm talking about this from the Center Party all the time, and it's never really messed up. There is a broad majority on Stortinget that has asked the county road administration to move to the county municipality. It was due to the time when the Senterpartiet put in government, in 2010. This has been a controlled implementation, but it happened in record time to actually take the intentions behind regional reform seriously, simply to put more under democratic control in the new populace regions. That's why this is fast. When things go fast, there's always a need for conversion work. It has risk elements in itself. But it has been handled in a way that allows 1197 to be added now is abandoned in the State Road Service, while 1261 have said yes to work in the county municipality. It shows that the transfer is in full operation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e1281	In Rogaland, the Vegvesenet had to cancel projects because they didn't have enough people to handle the tenders. The consequence is the permissiveness of contractors. The government keeps the county councils and competent people working by road, both in the counties, in the state and in the private business, for fools when they get only one month to know what county municipalities have to spend on their budgets. For example, Nordland needs: 127 jobs, but received only 70 applications for the new road section. With today's unexplained status, Nordland, as an example, risks losing 54 million. kr annually, the same as they have used for reasphalting this year. Can the Council of State assure that Nordland will receive financial compensation to ensure a breakage from 1 January and reasphalting, i.e. that the loss will not be the 54 million if they do not get the 70 workers they need from the State Road Service, but will they have to pick them up elsewhere?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e1286	The installation is again a feature of a pre-written script that does not take into account the answers we are actually giving. It's a demanding conversion for a lot of people in the state road system on the way to the county councils. I can't give any such guarantees, because it's the Storting that comes to the seventh and the last to make the decisions. But I can assure you that our work is about setting up both the State Road Service, through new organisation, and the county councils to solve the challenges we're going to have in the field of transport in the next few years. It will take care of our further work as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e1300	This question, from the representative of Åsunn Lyngedal to the Minister for Transport, will be raised by the representative of Kirsti Leirtrø.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e1305	«E6 in Ballangen municipality 55 km south of Narvik is now closed all day for periods of up to 45 minutes at Forsa tunnel. This is 15 kilometers from the only ferry link on the E6 where there's an hour and a half between each ferry. The passage of a guide car takes place without regard to the ferry times of E6 or Rv. 827. Buses, car trains, commuters and others lose their connections every day. There is no re-run, the call vehicle cannot pass when the tunnel is closed and there is no sign at the front of the tunnel. Does the Council of State consider it appropriate that the only connection between the north and the south be closed for such long periods?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e1312	The nearly 50-year-old E6 tunnel in Ballangen shall be upgraded in line with the legislation and safety requirements in the tunnels. The upgrade includes a series of measures to increase road safety for road users, naudetaters and others travelling on and along the road. This will cause a lot of upgrade work to be done now. In the preparation for such an upgrade, the State Road Service carefully reviews the project to see how little damage can be done to normal traffic. It has also been done in this case. The Swedish Road Authority has informed me that they have also had dialogue with Torghatten Nord AS in the run-up to and during the planning and closure period to find solutions that are of the least possible disadvantage to road users. At the same time, if we're going to upgrade this tunnel, he has to be shut down for periods. I trust that the State Road Service and other actors will continue to work to ensure that the disadvantages are as small as possible for road users. But it's just to admit that it has some consequences if we're actually going to have to do the upgrade necessary to strengthen traffic security through this tunnel.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e1321	There is no doubt that the repairs are absolutely necessary. The background to the question was dubious enquiries from commuters who have experienced that they could stay standing for quite a while. With an interval of an hour and a half between the ferries, this creates problems. Another challenge is poor information: the State Road Service website says that the tunnel is closed only at night, but the population feels that it is closed even in the daytime. Does the Council agree that this text should not indicate that the tunnel is closed at daytime and that it is understandable that the passengers are in despair?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e1330	I don't have the ability to make assessments of it; I haven't seen what's on the website. But it's obvious that it's public agencies' responsibility to make sure they give the right information. It is closed periodically throughout the day, and it is going to be in the most intense period, which is actually from now on and hopefully until the summer of 2020 – one should be done with the most critical period then. To the extent that information is not correct for road users, of course, we have to help clean it up. There's a minimum of what people can expect of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e1337	It may seem that after this question was sent to the Council of State, the State Road Administration itself has been better informed. It is now said that the work can be done 24 hours a day, and that it is driving a car by car, with waiting time up to 20 minutes. As the Council of State itself says, this is with the right information and making it as vulnerable as possible, incredibly important. Then my question will be: can the Council of State ensure that the passage into the tunnel can be coordinated with the ferry? There is also an important point in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e1344	I can't guarantee it in any case, but we also want to make sure that the state road service through the Torghatten Nord dialogue makes the consequences for road users as small as possible. That's what I can assure the representative of Leirtrø. Otherwise it is good when questions from Stortinget actually trigger reactions. It's not that bad.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e1360	This issue is postponed to the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. So we go to question 14.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e1376	Fur farmers are compensated in two ways – in time and in money. The compensation in terms of time is the specified liquidation period. This means that fur farmers can continue and get a return on their investments by February 2025. Farmers may settle when best suited to the individual. In addition, fur farmers receive financial compensation. It also covers the costs of demolition and cleaning. A system of means of conversion must also be established. I would like to stress that the proposal that has been being consulted is fully in line with the proposal for a system of compensation adopted in the Stortinge this year. The proposal also respects the protection of fur farmers under the Constitution and under the provisions of the European Convention on Human Rights on Property Rights. I would like to repeat that the fur farmers first have a rather long liquidation period. In addition, the State will contribute an overall payment estimated at more than 700 million. kr. Based on an averaging calculation, this corresponds to more than 3,5 million. kr per use. The consultation proposal is in line with the Storting decision. Therefore, it is also provided that adjustments are to be made if there is an unreasonable outcome in the overall measurement of compensation to the individual. Both when assessing the scheme in general and when assessing whether there are unreasonable outcomes in individual cases, an assessment of the true value of the fur animal plants must be made. The representative Pollestad asked about my assessment of the scheme as such. I believe that examples of tariff value cannot be used without further delay to make a judgment on the compensation scheme. For example, the tariffs are: based on an expected future return on investments, or based on the estimated value of sales? What kind of assumptions have been made, in particular with regard to the price of fur? The analyses carried out by Menon and NIBIO give rise to some caution when assessing the value in use or an imaginary market value without a prohibition. The ministry has now had a hearing and received 160 hearing replies. The proposal is fully in line with the decision on enlargement. However, I will not finally conclude by what the regulation will be like at all points until all the hearings have been carefully evaluated.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e1391	I'm thinking about how bad it must be for those who are fur farmers, and their families to listen to the answer from the Council of State. These are people who are in a very difficult situation. They're sick, afraid, they say they're sleepy bad. And then they experience a government council that appears to be both happy with what has been presented and that pushes the Storting ahead of itself in the discussion. It's also said here that a person gets a good time to change. I think it's completely detached from reality, for a certain 20 pst. Of the fur-bonds, one understands that for the 80 pst. remaining, it will not be possible to continue. My follow-up question is, What time can you expect to be answered? What time will the regulation be fixed at last, so that the farmers can finally know what they have to adjust to?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e1400	I share the concern of many of the fur farmers for their future. At the same time, I would like to say that from 2012 to 2017, one third of the fur animal nutrition dropped. What was the reason why they dropped? It was that there have been challenging prices and challenging performance from the business. In that case, it is important for me to provide for a compensation scheme for fur farmers, and – not least – if there are any outsiders, we have to comply with the Storting decision and look at individual cases that come out unreasonablely. When this regulation comes, it depends on how much time we need to go through everyone and see what adjustments you might need to make.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e1405	When a user argues that someone has volunteered, I hope that I have not intended to use it for the rest of the agricultural sector, where there have also been significant closures of dairy and other activities. It's not sustainable. This is about those who are the frame of the food ban that has come. I don't think it's happened before one has implemented a policy that's so serious, to a group of people that one has to have crisis measures to deal with those who're involved in politics. I'm very happy that I'm not responsible for doing this, and I'm deeply concerned that the council doesn't take in and say here that they're lying, that they're talking wrong, when they come up with rates on what their property is worth. So then my question is again: Will the Council of State help farmers to get quick answers to what becomes the final rule?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e1412	First of all, I would like to say that it is a very strong claim that I, as the Council of State, say that the fur farmers are lying. It has never come out of my mouth. What I said was that it depends on what is included in the price assessments. So that statement I want to ask myself. It is important for me to get this regulation out as quickly as possible precisely because I understand and take inwards that fur nutrition needs a quick clarification. But that doesn't mean that as a state council, I claim that the farmers are lying.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e1422	‘17. June I took up the draft of the Abbasi family in Stortinget. The Minister of Justice said, among other things, ‘I think it is wise now to get a little more facts on the matter before drawing far too far-reaching conclusions. We will make sure that we get hold of it, and then we will inform the Storting appropriately about the matter when we have the whole picture.’ Now, almost four months after the draft, the Council of State should have got the whole picture of the case. When and in what way will he inform the Storting about the matter?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e1429	I thank you for the question. As you know, the Abbasi family has finally been denied their asylum applications. There is also a jurisprudence of the 2017 Lawyers' Court, which allows UNE to recognise the validity of the asylum decisions. Forced transport to Afghanistan was attempted in June of this year. It failed because of the mother's health and because the Afghan authorities, while the family was in Turkey, reported that the return would not be accepted because the family was not returned together. Everyone in the family is now back in Norway. UNE has received a family change request that they will now decide on, and the matter will therefore be reviewed by the alienation authorities. As the representative is probably familiar with, I cannot intervene in individual cases unless it concerns fundamental national or foreign policy interests, which this does not. I also have no instruction right to UNE, and this is adopted by Stortinget. The family's request for conversion will therefore be dealt with in line with current legislation and practice. UNE will also assess whether any return to Afghanistan would be contrary to Norwegian law or international obligations. Foreigners’ authorities continuously assess the security situation in the country from a wide range of sources. When the family was apprehended and transported out in June, it took place on the basis of thorough planning carried out in cooperation between Trøndelag Police District and the Police Foreign Unit. UNE was then routinely notified of the shipment. The child-care coordinator of the PU participated in the planning to ensure the quality of the child-care approach. During the apprehension and transportation, the minor son was taken care of by staff members with enhanced competence in the field of conversational techniques with children. Both doctor and nurse were present during the apprehension and until arrival at the Gardermoen. After self-assessment, the doctor continued with the follow-up to Istanbul. The doctor assessed the continuous health situation of those who were to be transported, and then everyone was considered resilient. The PU has dealt with the evaluations of health professionals in the course of their studies. When the health assessment changed, the mother’s transport was interrupted. I find no reason to criticise the implementation of the transport. The current procedures have been followed, both in terms of legal certainty and the individual’s situation. Forced returns are difficult for all parties and unforeseen events may occur. In conclusion, I mention that the Stortinget will be considering a proposal for a representative in Document 8:179 LS for 2018-2019. Two of the proposals concern temporary return to Afghanistan and the establishment of an independent system of supervision for forced return. I will come back to these questions in this regard, but it would also be natural to include this explanation in the answer I will give to that proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e1446	I thank you for your answer. I perceive the answer to my question as that the Council of State returns to Stortinget with a briefing on the draft in connection with the examination of the referenced proposal. I also hope that the Council of State there will go into thoroughly how this draft was implemented. One of the doctors involved in the outing, who thought it was safe to transport out mother, who was unconscious throughout the outing, has previously delivered xenophobic opinions on the network. I really hope that the Council of State will go deeper into this when he will explain to the Storting, and I will ask for a confirmation of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e1453	I think it's very important to distinguish between what professional participants do in terms of their profession and what their personal opinion is. For example, I wanted to. had no problem dealing with Dr. Mads Gilbert and his medical assessments, although he and I stand quite far apart in the view of immigration policy. I trust – unless it is denied – that doctors deal with their professional profession and their professional ethics. I am also aware that this is a matter to be assessed by the Medical Association. Then there are those who are right to assess whether the doctor has acted in line with the medicine.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e1458	I thank you again for your answer and look forward to the information that the Council of State will provide in connection with the examination of our proposal in the Grand Duchy later this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e1463	I hope he looks forward to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e1468	That being the case, it is no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-16.ana.ud351e1482	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
