ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e78	Representatives of Åshild Bruun-Gundersen, Eirik Sivertsen and Lene Vågslid, who have been authorized, have again taken the seat. Two permit applications are filed: by the Group of the Centre Party on the Permit of the Representative, Siv Mossleth, on 16 and 17 June to attend the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly in Riga, Latvia; from the Workers' Group on sickness leave of the representative Anette Trettebergstuen from 17 June to 21 June On a proposal from the President, the following agreement was reached: Applications will be processed immediately and accepted. The following alternates will be convened to meet during the leave period: For Hedmark County: Tone Merete Sønsterud 17 June to 21 June For Nordland County: Kari Anne Bøkestad Andreassen 17 June
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e126	The representative, Freddy André Øvstegård, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e131	On behalf of the representatives Karin Andersen Marian Hussein, Sheida Sangtarash and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal on a strengthened crisis centre offer for victims of violence.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e136	The representative, Mr Solfrid Lerbreck, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e141	Today is the day of the reindeers, and therefore, on behalf of the representatives of Audun Lysbakken, Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes, Sheida Sangtarash and myself, I will present a proposal for a representative on working conditions in front of the offer regime.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e146	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e164	At the request of the Presidency, the President shall propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group. In addition, the President will suggest that there is no replication, and that those who draw on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e173	On behalf of the Presidentship of the Grand Duchy, I present this Innst. 394 L for 2018-2019. The Presidency shall promote in this nomination proposals for amendments to Law 20 December 2016 No. 106 on compensation for depositors’ representatives — deposit-reimbursement law. The amendments are, in part, legislative proposals for tightening up following the launch of the Presidency in January of this year to review the services and financial arrangements of the EEAS representatives. The second paragraph of Section 9 of the Storing Compensation Act states today that all the travels of wholesalers domestically are to be regarded as service claims unless they are purely private in nature or have no connection with the position of wholesaler. In order to improve compliance with the rules applicable elsewhere in the country, the Presidency proposes that the provision be amended in such a way as to require that the purpose and content of the journey be mainly service-related in order to be regarded as a service journey. The Presidency also proposes a tightening of the commuting arrangements for the staging representatives. The purpose of the commuting unit is to cover the costs of two households. The condition for raising the commuter diet is therefore that the representative disposes of the commuter dwelling in Oslo. The Presidency indicates that the scheme is somewhat more expeditious than that of other commuters. This will include, inter alia: be the case where a claims representative lives with his family in the commuter dwelling of Stortinget and thus does not actually have two households. The Presidency proposes that the definition of commuting by tax rules should also be taken into account for large-scale representatives. The proposed amendment implies that representatives living in the commuting home with the family, i.e. with spouses, consensual spouses and/or children, will not be able to claim commuting below. Private representatives without self-catering at the place of residence would not be able to demand this either. In this context, cohabitants without children are considered as lonely. The current commuting system is not explicitly expressed in the law, but is reflected in an Innst note. 89 L for 2011-2012 that were applicable to changes in the applicable WBS Act from 16 December 2012 *The correct one is 16 December 2011. * No 61. The Presidency now proposes that the rules on commuting for large-scale representatives be incorporated into the law. The adjustment also contains some minor adjustments and technical changes to the remuneration law that I do not go into here. Red has put forward two proposals in the case, and the presidency, as mentioned earlier in my speech, has had a review of the services and financial arrangements of the depositors and will not recommend any changes or restrictions other than those actually proposed by the Presidency, and I recommend with this Grand Summit to take decisions in accordance with the suspension.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e193	Red, of course, supports the removal of unnecessary extra allowances at the top of the payroll. Gross wages are already too high. It is proposed to increase further. Therefore, it is good that the definition of commuting by tax rules is also taken into account for large-scale representatives. We will also be voting in favour of the proposed other amendments to the gross pay bill. I would also like to refer to our previous proposals in Stortinget to prevent abuse of the remunerations of large-scale representatives. We have proposed greater transparency and tighter control and only received support from the Swedish Environment Party, the Green and Christian People's Party on some points. We believe that the grips that are now being taken are not sufficient, because they would not have prevented the worst cases we have seen and been exposed in the media about the abuse of the arrangements. For every media disclosure, Stortinget has taken some small steps in the right direction, but unfortunately it has been too little late, and there has been too little coverage of basic structures, so that trust in us at Stortinget could actually be strengthened, and one could finally end what has been an unculture of the political elite in Norway. We have to remember that every penny that we get and use comes from the population. We have to make sure that this money is used correctly. I will take up one side by the commuting arrangements. We've seen cases in the media of how grossing-up representatives can own not only one, not just two, but a whole five apartments, and in addition, have service-dwelling facilities made available free of charge. You may be a ‘property investor’ or a ‘loaned member’ and may continue to be covered by the community as a depositor’s representative. I do not want to have a discussion about individual representatives, but about the principles of whether staging representatives should be able to look at housing speculation in this way both by having housing no. two, three, four, five or more and at the same time have an extra commuter dwelling covered by the Stortinget. Rødt suggests that it is not possible to make available, free of charge, for large-scale representatives who own more than one dwelling from before, without a documented specific need. Of course, this could be e.g. family considerations which make it necessary to derogate from such a rule. In addition, Red suggests that if you already own one or more dwellings within the commuter limit of Stortinget, you will not receive a commuter dwelling. It should be a matter of course for all parties to be able to support. If it were adopted, I would believe that the presidency would resolve it in a smooth and practical way in the legislation with its entry into force from an appropriate date, from the next major elections. That's how we owe the voters for our vision, and I'll bring it up to Red's suggestion in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e210	Then the representative Björn Moxnes has drawn up the proposals he referred to. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e228	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be a possibility of replying to replies from members of the Government. In addition, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e239	I want to start by thanking the Committee for its cooperation in landing this matter. What we are dealing with in this round is the changes in the tax and tax package that were presented in the revised national budget, and I expect that we will have a good debate on the whole of the revised budget next Friday. There are not very large changes in the tax regime that are being dealt with today. The main change is that we open up electronic journals and books to get exemptions from VAT. At the same time, the government parties in the setting of the feedback received indicate that some adjustments to the current criteria should be possible to adapt the exemption to digital publishing. The Government Parties follow up the agreement of Granavolden to exempt vehicles older than 20 years from the one-off charge, lower one-off charge for motorcycles and also mention the government's plans for phase-in of the new measurement method for car emissions, WLTP. To the delight of the small breweries producing pages and the like, a tax relief will now be introduced. The government also reports on the state of the introduction of a full electricity tax on electricity used for the production of cryptocurrency. The Tax Directorate sent proposals for amendments to the consultation in mid-May, with a deadline of 27 June. The government also proposes simplifications in the taxation of spouses. I notice that the Workers' Party and the Center Party are overcoming each other in the case of foreign online commerce. The government is doing this properly. We investigate changes and implement them in a good way. The Workers' Party will implement this change, without any good work being done, already on 1 September, while the Centre Party will overcome this and will do so as of 1 August. Not only will they do it without proper processing; they will not even allow the case which is now being consulted, with the deadline at the beginning of August, to be completed before they propose to amend the law. I think that's an unwise way to go forward. This is a revised budget based on a good government budget as the majority of the country last autumn. Unemployment has not been lower in a long time, growth is increasing in all sectors throughout the country, more students are completing secondary school, and the transition of the Norwegian economy is underway. We're going to enjoy that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e260	The Labour Party thinks that Norway is at its best when we solve the problems together. The government is leading an economic policy that does not contribute to a reduction in differences and an increase in confidence. The right government is extending the VAT exemption for electronic journals and books from 1 July this year. The proposal involves a distortion of competition between electronic publications that are not kept up to date and electronic versions that are kept up to date. This is a little forward-looking, and the Labour Party asks the government to put forward a non-discriminatory system of VAT exemptions for all news and news media. The working party notes that half a year has passed since the decision to remove the 350 kr limit, and first comes the call. It's not exactly an implementation force. The removal of subsidies on foreign online commerce is to protect Norwegian business, unlike the government, which will maintain them for as long as possible, so that Norwegian business is highly competitive and cannot compete under the same conditions as foreign companies. Changes in reporting on in-kind benefits that were reported in the revised national budget last year were poorly reviewed. Under pressure from both the opposition to the Stortinget and voluntary teams and organisations, there were changes to the rules. Still, the changes in the rules are not linked to additions to the transport companies, but delayed once again. Once again, we would like to stress from the Labour Party that there must be close contact between the parties and establish reasonable solutions that only tax real private use beyond the tax-free limit of NOK 8 000. Abstentions of taxes on works and use began with a public meeting in plenary, where the Christian People's Party together with us in the opposition said no that the municipalities should miss these incomes. This has been going on for a few days. So the Christian People's Party negotiated it away, and it was that the loss of income was to be compensated. It was also a few days before it would be compensated by up to 500 million. kr. The right-wing government had been so busy that they completely ignored missing rules for new merged municipalities, and believed cork in the municipalities, LVK or KS that said 500 million. kr was too small. Unfortunately, the pheasant showed that we were right. They're all not properly rated, but they're missing 230 million. kr. One has to be up to 730 million. kr in total per year to get approximately equal compensation. Finally, I would like to comment on the proposals made by the Labour Party alone or as part of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e275	The representative Ingrid Heggø has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e280	I am not going to spend time going through the many good changes that the government has proposed for the current financial year, because it has already done very well. But I too would like to ask questions about the proposals that have been promoted by the Workers' Party, the Center Party and Red that relate to the so-called 350-kroner limit on online trade from abroad. Now the proceeds are due to be dealt with later, but I wonder if it is really serious when the Workers' Party is proposing to lift the exemption limit from 1 September, and the Central Party, which is proposing to set the date to 1 August of the current year. On the part of our party, we are honest about the fact that the loss of people's ability to live anywhere in Norway and have the opportunity to buy everything from small uses to collectors from all over the world, without dealing with a difficult code or customs, is a loss. It is a political loss for us as a party, which increased the limit from NOK 200 to NOK 350 for some years back, but not least it is a loss for our citizens. We also know that the 350-kroner limit has been positive for the Post Office, which now has to start restructuring and downsizing and reduce, among other things. mail delivery. For the Progress Party, this is a lost cause. We know where the opposition is, and we've accepted the wallpaper in the platform. We're going to deal with that. The government is now working to keep its own deadline, which is 1 January 2020. But I expect that when the Storting goes into the process of completing this limit, one is nevertheless interested in doing so in a predictable way, where not only the Post can continue its restructuring during the period they have set aside and their employees, but also for us to put in place a simple and digital system that will be able to handle further trade in an easy way for people who will continue to trade online from abroad. I think it will be hard enough to put in place a good system from 1 January, and I believe that both the Workers' Party and the Center Party also understand that. The proposal to raise the 350-kroner limit already in 1.5 and 2.5 months cannot be characterised as anything but unprofessional. The proposals of the Labour Party and of the Centre have been included, should have been strictly drawn, simply because it is not possible to implement the proposals in reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e291	I have noticed that the government parties have spent so far in the debate their speaking time procuring that the clearly discriminatory 350-kroner limit for Norwegian business, which leads to a subsidising foreign online trade, and which causes a loss of jobs and tax revenue in Norway to be maintained as far as possible, while new proposals, which affect ordinary people in Norway, can happen overnight, without investigation and without dialogue with them, such as extensive tax changes, which occurred last year's budget, among others. in the case of taxi industry and some cars carrying wheelchair users. The legislation on benefits in kind has been the subject here several times. On each occasion, the Centre Party has called for an overall review and review of the rules, both because of the impact it has on the employees affected by the rules, due to the wide-ranging feedback from employers on red tape and the feedback from the auditors, which will also follow up the legislation. Unfortunately, we have not been able to get through that, but I am glad that there are several parties that are gradually seeing new problems with the rules, and I hope that we will also have to do something with the rules at later times. Unfortunately, we do not now have the opportunity to promote the proposal that was voted down earlier in this session, but we will re-examine the issue later. So there's a question that's been raised in this case that no one so far has mentioned, that I think is an important fundamental question, and that I'm surprised that the other parties, including the government, don't reflect any more on. This concerns Section 15-2 of the Tax Administration Act, which means that the Ministry of Finance can bring an action against an independent tax complaint, i.e. against a decision taken. What one wants to clarify in this case is that if one does so, it must also be possible for the decision to be revised. I would like to point out that of the independent hearing bodies which have delivered their opinion on the matter, four out of five have expressed their opposition, inter alia. on the consequences for the individual taxpayer that the Ministry of Finance may bring an action within a six-month period and that it is not itself in a position to appeal against the decision taken by the Ministry of Finance. Accounting Norway also criticises the rule itself, which is a good reason to do so. The Ministry of Finance has other ways of changing Norwegian law than going to this step. I'm going to deal with the proposals. Four, five, six.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e302	The representative of Sigbjørn Gülsvik has addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e307	What distinguishes Norway from several other countries in the world, and that allows us to walk around here with informed and different thoughts in our heads, is that we have a free and independent press with good enough support to do good things that we can get with us. We have to make sure that we still have it, also in this new form that the press is taking and is taking more and more. The VAT exemption for electronic journals does not go hand in hand with development, but discriminates between different actors on what I'm saying is really quite strange and old-fashioned ways. I refer to SV's comment on this matter and in connection with the media message that this must be done something about, and I am going to stop what the representative Hegø has said on the subject.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e314	I thank the spokesman for the case and the committee for their good handling so far. There are a number of smaller tax breaks, such as on older cars, sides and motorcycles, which we are about to deal with today - check matters for the enthusiasm for these activities, even if you don't think they are so clever to combine. There has been a greater deal of reference to a number of other issues than the very smaller tax havens, such as: the debate now on the 350-kroner limit. It is said by the representatives from the opposition that one wishes to have the longest possible time before removing this exemption. It is speaking against better wheat, the legislation has now been sent on a listener. In its own suggestions and comments, the opposition writes that one should try to find a simple solution that will make this a practical proposal. Then it is necessary to take inwards that such a case should be heard and should be treated properly. Furthermore, it has been used for VAT purposes in electronic journals and books. There have been good recordings in the hearings that have been, and the Christian People's Party is in charge of the comments, where we ask the government to use the time until 1 July to adopt a regulation that delivers on the Granavolden Declaration and the recordings that have come to improve and adjust the proposal. Furthermore, the size has adopted a comprehensive call for decisions to remove the tax rate on electricity charges for the extraction of cryptocurrency in Norway. The government has said that this is something you need to come back to, and a proposal has recently been sent on the phone. A large number in this room have wanted to make it easier to operate data centers in Norway, and a large number are behind the cryptocurrency call decision. One is going on with some practical challenges that I hope can be highlighted during the hearing, so that one can fulfill the Storting's decisions on both sides. Some representatives have brought up the machine tax and appeal decision No. 180 from last year. The call decision is at the bottom of what is being done. One comes with a model with a bottom subtraction. The municipalities that lose the most have got the most in compensation, especially if you look at it per capita. Quite rightly, the Christian People's Party opposed the removal of machine taxes, but, after the debate, it accepted that there was a change that was demanded by business and is good for the companies in the municipalities that it owes. Of course, the compensation scheme should follow in the future, what kind of reactions come and how it is followed up. It's a good RNB that builds on the revision of a good and responsible state budget, and it follows that it's going well in Norway. I think that's a good thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e330	The main purpose of the government's tax policy is to finance our common well-being as effectively as possible. The government has reduced the level of taxation in order to increase value creation and also to give greater freedom to families and individuals. Growth-promoting tax relief is a central part of the government's economic policy. Tax reform and tax reconciliation are an important contribution. The reform promotes investment in Norwegian business, provides a basis for increased employment and provides better protection of the Norwegian tax base. In the future, it will be important to simplify the tax system, both to reduce the burden on taxpayers and to reduce administrative costs. In the context of the revised National Budget for 2019, the Government has made proposals for some changes to the tax rules. Certain adjustments are proposed in the rules on spouse taxation. These proposals are part of ongoing work on simplification of tax legislation and are a technical clean-up and adjustment. This will make the rules a little more accessible and comprehensible to taxpayers. It is proposed to introduce a VAT exemption for electronic journals and books from 1 July of this year. This ensures equal charging for printed and electronic books and periodicals. Furthermore, it is proposed to extend the current reduced alcohol tax system for small breweries to include aspects and similar alcoholic beverages. This is a minor change that ensures that like goods are treated in the same way as for tax purposes. Some changes to the one-off fee are also proposed. For motorcycles, it is proposed to reduce the one-off fee by an average of 10 pst. from 1 July of this year. In the case of motor vehicles over 20 years old, it is proposed to completely eliminate the one-off charge. Cars and motorcycles over 20 years of age can therefore be imported without paying a one-off fee. It's a follow-up to the Granavolden platform. I have noticed that a joint committee has joined most of the proposals dealt with in this vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e349	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e354	In Section 15-2 of the Tax Administration Act, the Ministry of Finance has access to legal proceedings in specific cases against decisions in an independent tax complaint. There has been an access which is located there and which has been specified in the pre-processor shall be used in very limited cases. A consultation call from Norway now suggests that this right is being used to a considerable extent by the Ministry of Finance, and clear warnings come from several hearing bodies, including the NHO, against making the changes made by the government. Why does the Ministry of Finance think it is right for people to pay more taxes than the decisions of an independent tax respondent?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e361	This is a clarification that the tax authorities may amend a tax decision when the Ministry has received legal support in an action against the Tax Law. That clarification is important in order to make it clear to taxable persons that tax authorities have change access in such cases. It thus ensures greater predictability for taxable persons. However, the right of appeal shall be primarily a safety valve and shall apply only in exceptional cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e368	After all, the maximum predictability of the taxpayer is that it is the decision that the independent tax subject has taken that will continue to apply. The fact that the Ministry of Finance subsequently chooses to bring an action, with a period of six months, means that there is uncertainty as to the adjustment to be made by each taxpayer, and that the individual taxpayer does not have the right to bring an action on his part afterwards. What one should have discussed instead is – as among other things. Norway’s accounts — whether this is a sensible rule to have. The Ministry of Finance has other ways of helping to amend Norwegian law if one believes that the tax rules should have been different. Why does the Ministry of Finance and the Minister of Finance think it makes sense to have such a rule like this – despite strong warnings?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e377	I answered that in the previous line. This is primarily a safety valve to be used in exceptional cases. I do not think that is the basis for the exaggerations I believe the representative Gegelsvik is now trying to do this to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e382	It seems that the ABE reform may have gone a little far, as there are still issues that are not entirely or missing. For example, taxes on in kind have been a repetition. When it comes to transport workers, the matter is exposed to the second time, and the addition of employers and pensioners is due to the uncertainty that still persists. For this reason, I ask the Council of State: How are the pensioners who were added to the transport company and have always had free travel by bus or train through the job to be taxed?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e387	It is not that the ABE reform has gone too far when we have implemented changes in kind. This was thoroughly explained in the revised budget last year. So we've had a lot of debates on the questions in this room. I have been very clear that I have wanted to engage in dialogue with the operators in business when there has been a need to make adjustments, as we have done, and as we have experienced has been well received. The fact that we have now also exposed the entry into force of the transport companies in line with the input from the employers, I believe it is good, because it gives them better time to adapt to this. But I don't think we have to lose sight of what has been the whole main reason for making these changes. These are the changes I thought the Workers' Party agreed. It is about greater equality of treatment, it is about the fact that this should in reality be pay for taxation, which gives workers in that country better rights in the area of public health. I actually thought the Workers' Party was for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e394	The question was, how are pensioners in transport companies to be taxed?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e399	The answer is that a longer period of adaptation is given so that businesses can adapt to the legislation that has been put in place. It shall apply to all those related to benefits in kind in this sector. We have also listened to the recordings that came from the employers, and I perceive that it has been well received. But I repeat: the point of having for liberal in-kind benefits is not good, simply because it gives workers poorer rights in popular terms. I sincerely believed that these were the principles of the Workers' Party agreed – that wages should come to tax, so that one should have the opportunity to earn rights, not least in such a way that more equal treatment is given to workers in this country than in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e404	I notice that I have not received an answer to the question. We haven't disagreed with all the changes that have come, but we wondered how the pensioners who have been added to the transport company would be taxed. But I understand that the Council of State is not ready to answer that. The government insisted that 500 million. kr was almost full compensation when the work and use lapsed. Now, even though not everyone is fully taxed, it turns out that the cost is 730 million. kr. This is 230 million. kr more than the government in its wisdom claimed it was. I believe that the intention of full compensation is fulfilled when they now receive 68 pst. compensation?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e412	First to the first claim that I'm not answering. Yes, I reply – I say that we have given the actors in this industry longer time to adapt. The legislation is there, the legislation is clear, the legislation shall apply to all beneficiaries of this scheme. But you get more time to adapt to the legislation. As far as machine taxes are concerned, it has been important for this government to make changes to it simply because it was primarily a major problem for business. It was for the sake of business and jobs that we removed the machine tax. Then we've committed ourselves to compensating up to 500 million. kr. That's what the government delivers. But it is not a loss for the municipalities that they have companies that want to stay in their municipality, with the value they give to the municipalities of jobs and ring-effects. I think that sometimes the Workers' Party must raise its eyes from eagerness to tax businesses and businesses and actually see the value of having competitive framework conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e419	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e426	When I hear the government parties today stand here and say that it is completely irresponsible to remove the 350-kroner limit in September because it is not well established, I have to say that what is irresponsible is not to do anything with the 350-kroner limit. That's what we've been proposing for a long time. I have to say that I am disappointed that the government parties have not addressed this matter before, and that more than six months have to be spent on getting a hearing proposal. When it is considered that this is irresponsible, there is reason to ask: What investigations were the basis for the decision to increase the border in October 2013? What were the underlying investigations when the government parties here in this room decided to increase the plastic bag charge? What were the underlying investigations when it was decided to increase the fare for seats in this room? And what happened last year, when it was decided to remove the electricity charge for the cryptocurrency in a settlement here in Stortinget, which now turns out that you can't implement? I think one should be careful to raise the tab high that it is irresponsible not to investigate things. In addition, the 350-kroner limit has now been sent to the hearing, so it is quite clear that the government wants to implement this. It would have been possible to implement it now, so that the Norwegian business community will not suffer even more. I do not know whether 'circus' is a parliamentary expression, so I am not going to use it, but at least it is not far away, what we have seen is happening with the benefits in kind now, which has been investigated, but which can in no way be satisfactorily investigated, because there are many uncertainties that have arisen in what the government is now proposing. We see that the Council of State cannot answer what the report should be like for pensioners who have worked in a transport company in the past and who have a free card. The fact that you spend time here in the hall pushing the need for investigations in front of you is pretty hollow, and at least it shows that it is a government that does not have action and is able to carry out the cases that should have been carried out.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e437	This isn't just about getting an investigation in place, it's actually about reality when it comes to being able to carry it out. That is what this proposal is about. I think the Center Party and the Workers' Party, before they try to roll over the changes that have been made, should at least have neatness in what they themselves propose. Yes, this proposal will affect most people. It will affect the districts, and it will affect people who are employed in the Post of Norway, who will thus have to do much faster than before. In particular, it is to be noted that a party that often stands on this pulpit and talks about the districts and how important it is for the districts wants to rage the districts with proposals that are impossible to implement. This has been tried in other countries. Australia spent three years implementing it. The Swedes also tried to do something about this, but they got a lot of trouble and had to send hundreds of thousands of packages back again because customers would not pick them up. The actors involved say themselves that they have challenges in being able to implement this before 1 January 2020. Then it's reasonable to stand on this platform and say that we're going to do this from August 1st. It's almost like believing in Santa Claus and other higher powers at once and hoping that miracles will happen, without it actually being possible to do. It's absolutely amazing to come up with that kind of proposal and want it in this room, because it's not possible. I think one should at least take inward that the Central Party clearly shows to the whole of Norway that they really don't care so much about the districts and what's important. For people it's important to get mail, but they want to take hold now that means the post has to cut hundreds of extra employees, and they have to do it faster. The party of progress did not want this. We wanted and fought for the 350-kroner limit. This applies to many very common people, who not only shop online and online, but also shop with others, who want to be able to continue without having to have this VAT and this tax collection. So now the system we have now is very expensive, while the actors are trying to find more reasonable solutions for most people so that you can still do this. I'm incredibly happy that we're doing something for the enthusiasts. We now make sure to do something about the one-off charge on cars over 20 years old. That's fantastic, and there's a lot of people who are happy that that proposal is coming. It is very good that we also do something for small breweries in terms of sides and other alcoholic goods. This is really great and shows that we want to, but we have an opposition that believes in miracles that it's impossible to implement.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e452	Thank you to the Committee for a good round. We'll probably come back to a lot of this next Friday. I drew myself to take the word to what the Senter party had to say when it came to the Tax Administration Act. What this bill wants and tries to implement is the determination of the right tax. Most people in this room should have an interest in determining the right tax. This concerns the use of this right of appeal in cases where: an incorrect factual basis, i.e. that the tax authorities have based a false basis in their case investigation an incorrect view of a legal question Such cases are decided in the courts. That is what an action leads to – a court of law. It is a court to determine whether there is a proper tax base or not. In the preparatory work, it has been suggested that this should be a narrower access, limited to matters of principle or high value for proceeds. The alternative is that one cannot determine what is the right tax back in time. I believe that is an important principle, which I am also pleased that all the parties in this Chamber, with the exception of the Centre Party, are supporting. Under the rules on aid to the parties, it is also possible for taxpayers to take care of their interests and intervene in the proceedings when the courts so provide. As written in the proposition – and I will from this pulpit join to it – this is meant as a safety valve. For ordinary people, without enormous wealth or ownership, there are not many fundamental, unresolved questions that remain on personal taxes. This is a change in the law that is meant for big, principled matters. This is a clarification that has been wanted because there have been uncertainties. It also ensures legal certainty, as there is more predictability. Once again, I would like to clarify: it is the courts that have to decide on the cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e474	There is no way in which representatives of the Progress Party in this Chamber are concerned that the Central Party proposes that a decision taken in connection with the treatment of the current year’s government budget, i.e. before Christmas last year, should be implemented from August instead of 1 January 2020. This is a decision that affects many traders in Norway who are trying to operate around the whole of Norway with online commerce from Norway. As has been pointed out in reports, among others: from Works, there are potentially thousands of jobs and large loss of income for the country. With regard to the relevant care of the Post by the representative of Hoksrud, the Centre Party has made proposals in this Chamber to strengthen the Post financially – create a better framework for the Post so that the Post is able to carry out its main mission, namely to deliver mail to people in Norway, not to use its mission on a lot of packages from abroad, which help to undermine Norwegian business. So to the question of benefits in kind: the answers that come from the Minister of Finance to the questions asked are elusive and evasive. I also think the government should take inward that the work done in this matter is a mere craft, which has made them – once again – themselves have had to go back on proposals that they have submitted, either by having to re-submit matters here in the Chamber, or by making changes in the follow-up made by the tax haven. When you talk about the basis here, what is it about? We can take the example of the former employees of the NSB: the government's railway reform, fragmentation, led to the possibility for those who continue to work in companies that run trains to have a staff discount, while those who make sure that the railways and trains are clear, who make it possible for us to have trains that go at the right time, and who have a tough job outside, as we know, not to be included in it, unless the finance minister can decide that something else should be taken into account. This is very important for those involved. Just pushing it out and saying that the rules have been adopted, without answering specific questions, does little to help those affected by the rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e485	I record that the representative Gülsvik would not answer how he thought it would be possible to do something that is impossible, but that means that he still clearly believes in miracles. When you talk about being busy with the Post Office and adding more money, I hope that the representative Gegelsvik also believes that those who are going to join the post office will have some mail to deliver in the mailboxes. I think it's important that you bring it too. That's the whole point, and some of the challenge with the proposal for the Central Party is that you want to reduce that opportunity. The post office is going to lose maybe toward 200 million. NOK by doing this, after reducing by 150-200 employees. So this is the Central Party's district policy: we're going to cut this out before it's possible, we're going to believe in miracles and hope that it can happen, and that it's going to hit the Post employees. It does not seem that the Progress Party is a good solution. If you get a good solution, if you get solutions that you've got elsewhere, maybe some of the online trade isn't going to be so much reduced, and that means you still have mail that you can distribute in the mailboxes. I think that's important, and that's good. I would like there to still be mail delivery in the districts, and then we have to make sure that there is some mail to deliver. That's why I think it's much better to find the good solutions, do this investigation and get solutions that also the actors believe in, that they don't think of as miracles and impossibility, but actually look at as opportunities. That's what you're adding from the government's side.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e492	The representative Sigbjørn Gülsvik has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e497	What this case is about is the conditions of competition between foreign online commerce and online commerce in Norway. It is not about whether or not to engage in online trading. On the contrary, we want to facilitate the possibility for those wishing to engage in business in Norway to engage in online commerce around Norway. So the Post would like to bring these goods home to people. But having a touching care for packages that are sent across the globe, from China, that do not contribute to ring-fences and value creation in Norwegian society, is an unwise policy. And for implementation: yes, the Central Party has repeatedly proposed a concrete arrangement in its alternative budgets, once again referred to in revised this year, for how this can be implemented. Thus, the government is pushing out a system that affects Norwegian traders, while Norwegian traders are affected by new tax and tax changes, and this happens overnight after a period of time. It's unwise politics.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e504	We have had the 350-kroner limit in Norway for many years, and there have been limits before that. There is a system for customs duties exceeding NOK 350. You don't have to be a rocket scientist to come up with a system that allows you to toll goods below that amount. But I have to ask the representative Hoksrud what miracles he believed in last December, when he decided not to exempt Kryptovaluta from the electricity charge and it would apply two months later without any significant investigations. What were the miracles that were supposed to solve this, because it must be like having a plan for how it would happen? We just have to record that the system hasn't come into place yet, so I think the representative Hoksrud owes us an explanation for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e511	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e527	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, a reply be given to replies from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e536	Let me first thank the Committee for its cooperation in the matter. The proposal discussed by the Committee is that VAT should be introduced from the first turnover in Norway for enterprises belonging to a foreign country. The proposal is made to apply to all companies, irrespective of industry, but it has been exemplified specifically for bus and coach transport. The current rules to collect VAT have a threshold of NOK 50000 and apply regardless of whether the enterprise is resident in Norway or abroad. At the same time as VAT is levied, there is also a right to refund VAT on the goods and services paid in connection with the activity in Norway. For the specific part on which the proposal is based, i.e. bus and coach services, it would be of marginal importance to consider competition between Norwegian and non-resident bus and coach companies if VAT rules had been introduced for non-resident registered companies. Norway has a relatively low threshold for registration in the VAT register. Only this means that the vast majority of those carrying out transport in Norway are already covered by the Norwegian legislation. Then it is that while the companies have to add 12 pst. VAT on their services, which is the VAT rate on passenger transport, they are thus reimbursed a greater proportion of their costs in Norway, since the general rate is 25 pst. The competition burden on Norwegian companies must therefore be said to be small. A previous assessment by the Tax Directorate concluded that: ‘For the tourism sector, it has been shown that the total value added tax revenue of the country is negative. This is mainly due to differences in turnover and costs. It suggests that non-compliance can give a small advantage to foreign operators.» I understand very well the intention of the proposal, and I agree with the objective that Norwegian companies should become more competitive. But as I read the background to the proposal, frustration rests more on the fact that those who have to pay VAT under the already existing legislation do not. In that case, it would mean little to adopt this proposal. Both the payment of taxes and other issues in the transport industry are seen as part of several complex challenges in the field of labour crime and are therefore part of the government’s overall effort, using the overall resource provided jointly or separately by the supervisory and supervisory seats. The majority of the Committee, consisting of the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party, therefore advises the Stortinget not to adopt the draft representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e551	This is basically a bit strange, because really all parties agree that non-resident carriers, whether they are buses or trailers, will pay taxes as Norwegian carriers when they operate in Norway. The Government Parties have entered into the Granavolden platform that they will ‘ensure that non-resident wagon trains pay tolls and other charges’. I guess the government doesn't think it's okay that foreign buses don't pay tolls and other charges. All the opposition parties are for this. Here we are dealing with a proposal from the Central Party. In the Transport Committee there is a proposal from the Workers' Party with ten proposals to improve the situation in the transport sector, one of which concerns charges. The mystery remains: Why do the government parties and government argue against their own government platform? But there are many more mysteries in the inner life of the government parties a day. In their comments, government parties say that today’s legislation is good enough to collect VAT, because, as they write, most cabotage operations in Norway will be subject to VAT even under today’s legislation. Then there is probably a mystery: why does the government not ensure that the fees are paid? Because then it's about control. What will the government do to get this done? I hope the Prime Minister can answer that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e560	Would the representative like to make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e565	I am addressing the proposals that the Workers' Party has been promoting with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e570	The representative Svein Roald Hansen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e575	Different parts of the transport industry in Norway experience strong competition from abroad, making it difficult to ensure Norwegian wage and working conditions and to ensure value creation and employment in Norway. There is a need for more action in different areas to improve that situation. But what we're talking about in this case in concrete terms is that for foreign bus companies and companies, there should not be a limit to when you have to pay VAT. I notice that the government parties and the majority in their comments write that there must be an equal limit for foreign and Norwegian actors. No, it doesn't have to be by any means. On the contrary, it is important to facilitate an orderly relationship in Norway and to be able to have a level playing field. This does not mean that, in any context, the rules should be the same as for national and foreign actors. In its eagerness to stand up for the views of the EU summits and bureaucrats in Brussels, one of the views is that there are indeed many countries within the EU that have implemented the principle of the Central Party in this matter. In 22 EU countries, it is precisely one that has a lower limit for national companies, while one does not have it for non-resident companies. The government's party that jumps over completely is that when one does not have such a lower limit, companies must register VAT, for example. The NHO has been involved in its consultation opinions. This makes it easier to control who is driving in Norway. It is also easier to detect and follow-up offences. That would be a belief you would be interested in from the government as well. What the NHO and others point to is that it will be easier to detect crime and to secure jobs in Norway. That is what is at the heart of this proposal. It is important to implement different measures, but this action is an important step in ensuring orderly and serious conditions, helping to clean up the transport industry and securing Norwegian jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e588	The government is very concerned with a level playing field in the transport sector, so we have included in the Granavolden platform that we will actively work towards liberalising cabotage legislation and reducing the scope of illegal cabotage operations. VAT legislation is well adapted to developments in the transport sector, the challenges of cabotage are primarily related to legislation other than VAT, but we recognise that there may be a lack of compliance with VAT legislation. The starting point is that the obligation to calculate VAT on transport services is equal for all enterprises, regardless of whether they are Norwegian or non-resident. For cross-border transport, there is a tax exemption, which also benefits Norwegian operators. In Norway, we have a very low amount limit before an enterprise becomes subject to registration in the VAT register. The vast majority of cabotage operations in Norway will already be subject to VAT under existing legislation because of the low registration limit of NOK 50000 per year. There are more measures than a zero threshold that are well suited to ensure compliance – both with the VAT code and other important regulations in Norwegian working life and on Norwegian roads. Through information and control measures to detect illegal cabotage activities, we contribute to compliance with legislation and a level playing field in the industry. This is actively followed up by the tax rate. It does not help to change the legislation if the problem is that there are operators in the market who do not follow the rules. When all follow the same rules, competition in the market will be fairer. That's why we work actively to increase compliance and stop those who operate illegally. The tax base participates in a cooperative forum with the various control modes. This is a targeted cooperation against labour crime, which was launched in 2016 and is managed by the Road Directorate. The aim of cooperation is to achieve greater compliance with all relevant legislation, and the tax rate is involved as the chargeable area. Others involved in the cooperation are the police, the Labour Inspectorate, the State Road Service and the customs department. They have held several joint checks to ensure that the standard on non-resident vehicles is in line with Norwegian conditions and that provisions on, inter alia, working and rest periods, tariffs, work permits and value added tax are complied with. Several such joint controls will be carried out in the future. In my opinion, this is the most appropriate way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e605	It's going to be a line word change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e610	Instead of standing and boasting of measures implemented by the government, the Minister of Finance should talk to those who are actually in the transport industry in Norway and who experience everyday life on the body. There is a need for stricter rules; there is a need for significantly more controls than is currently the case; and for enhanced cooperation. The Central Party has proposed a package for strengthening it in the revised national budget. But then to what we're actually talking about here. The Council of State indicates that a national and foreign actors must have equal rules. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, In 22 EU countries, there is a zero limit for foreign actors because they are more difficult to control. It is important to detect crime, it is important to strengthen control and it is important to ensure jobs, for which the NHO has argued. Why does one not safeguard the interests of the national transport industry in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e618	I totally disagree with that claim. I think we are doing well in their interests. We are in constant, good dialogue with the transport industry of several departments, simply because we take it seriously. What we've seen is that the action that really works is controls. Many serious defects have been discovered on tyres and other things that have nothing to do with the collection of VAT. It has to do with traffic safety, and it has to do with weakening competition for Norwegian operators. The government has taken this seriously. But it doesn't help with a never so good code if it doesn't comply. That is exactly why we have put more resources into more controls. They have been reinforced through the lifetime of this government, and as I announced in my post, we will put in more controls in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e623	The industry itself and the NHO point out that the proposal presented could be an effective measure to facilitate the implementation of controls and that it can also reveal more than just VAT fraud, but also other types of crime. This is precisely why one also refers to the fact that such a measure could both generate higher revenues for the country – 100 million. kr has been estimated by the NHO – and will be able to secure Norwegian jobs and reduce crime. Why isn't the government willing to listen to the signals coming from the industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e628	I just answered that. We are more than willing to listen to the signals coming, and it is primarily about having better controls. With the low limit we have – at NOK 50 000, which is a very low limit – the problem is not primarily the collection of VAT. The problem relates to working and rest periods, to tariffs and to work permits, to mention something, and not least to the fact that many of these combinations of vehicles crossing the border are not in a sound condition. It constitutes an uncertainty on our roads, it constitutes an uncertainty for the life of traffic, and that is precisely why putting in more resources to get better controls takes those who do not intend to follow the legislation regardless of how it is designed.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e633	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e640	Government parties believe that it is important for the Norwegian market to be neutral. Then I expect them to believe that there should be a level playing field for Norwegian and foreign tourism companies. But it's not equal to competition today. NHO Transport counts foreign coaches. Just since the middle of May, more than 2,600 foreign buses have been registered. Most of them come from Eastern European countries. There is good evidence that there is systematic cabotage in the tourism sector. The checks carried out by the Labour Inspectorate in 2018 showed that 74 p.m. non-resident drivers were not paid under Norwegian collective bargaining agreements. NHO Transport recently carried out a large survey, and they are clear that foreign tour operators do not pay VAT, as they are required under Norwegian law when they get over a turnover of NOK 50000. By introducing the VAT ceiling from the first kroner for foreign coaches entering the country, it becomes much more difficult to cheat on VAT. The Norwegian bus driver’s experience is that foreign bus drivers do not trade anything in Norway at all. So for them, there's not much VAT to get back. They have the most they need, or they get deliveries from their own replacement cars. The representative Johansen of the Progress Party must notice this, because it undermines his argument. The cost loss for the State has been estimated at at least 100 million. NOK But that's not the worst. The worst thing is that when foreign tour operators do not pay VAT, and do not pay drivers at tariffs, it is very difficult for Norwegian operators to compete on equal terms. I promoted this proposal on behalf of the Central Party on 14 March, in particular in the light of knowledge through my work in the Transport Committee. If it does not become a majority to change the VAT limit to NOK 1 for foreign bus companies today, I can inform those who will today vote against the Norwegian interests that they will have a new chance to correct the error the next Thursday, because then the same proposal will be discussed in Stortinget again. The Labour Party has taken up our proposal, one month later, and promoted it as a measure to ensure transport on Norwegian roads. So think about it and take care of the Norwegian bus market that is left.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e651	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e667	I notice that neither representatives from the government parties nor the other opposition so far have signed up in the matter. This concerns very comprehensive and very important legislation to assess its impact. Through repeated decisions proposed by the government in recent years, there has been a contribution to the transfer of sovereignty in key areas for Norway, both in the field of energy, not least through the adoption of the third energy market package of the EU, and through the decision of the Storting in 2016 to submit to the Norwegian Financial Supervisory Authority of the EU in key areas. After that, EU legislation has been extended. In this case, as far as MiFIR is concerned, no clear assessment has been submitted as to whether this is a matter which involves a refusal of sovereignty as more than little intervention. It is at least one must be able to expect from the government and from the majority of the population before deciding whether or not to accept the legislation. In the case of CRR and CRD IV, it is important to ensure that before a decision is taken on whether to accept this legislation, the nature of the necessary legislative changes to be made is presented and that it is presented as an overall case. In some areas, there are clearly positive elements and proposals that the Centre Party will support, but there are also measures that we can implement in many areas ourselves nationally and that should have already been implemented, for example. the so-called SME discount, where there has been a clear disadvantage for Norwegian operators that Norway has been following and not ensuring follow-up. It could have been nice without waiting for this matter. The central party proposes to take matters back together for a new assessment, in which the constitutional issues are also properly assessed, so that the Stortinget, when deciding to give up sovereignty in such an important area as finance, has a proper basis for deciding. I'd like to take up with it the suggestions the Center Party is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e682	The representative of Sigbjørn Gülsvik has addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e687	Following the financial crisis, a number of measures have been put in place to make banks more robust, with increased capital adequacy requirements as a very important measure. The fact that Norwegian legislation has been adapted to international standards in this field makes sense. SV has therefore supported the restrictions that have occurred in this field in the last few years. However, when we oppose the inclusion of MiFIR in the EEA Agreement now, it is because it is unclear to what extent the sum of these involves a waiver of sovereignty that is more than insignificant. We therefore have proposals together with the Center Party and Red that these questions need to be investigated and clarified, so that we have a proper basis for decision-making. Furthermore, we now oppose the inclusion of CRR and CRD IV because the Storting must be able to assess the necessary changes resulting from such inclusion. Finally, we are now opposed to the inclusion of MiFID II in the EEA Agreement because this has to be seen in conjunction with the other directives covered by this proposal. A minimum requirement with the inclusion of such directives must be that we can be sure that we have all the facts on the table. It adds what appears to be a transfer of authority to the EU and ESA, without it being clear what kind of consequences it will have in the long term. It will not be the first time that the EEA Directive has more extensive implications than what we have first been proposed. I also refer to our comments in the setting of this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e700	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e716	I note that the interest of the government parties and the majority of the majority in Stortinget's side in discussing the consequences of the introduction of new legislation, new sovereignties to the EU, is not significant. So in the case that we just concluded, there were no representatives from the government parties and no representatives from the Workers' Party who chose to take the floor at all. They vote through proposals. Well-founded counter-conceptions that require a need to provide assessments related to what this means for national sovereignty, what it means in diet-benefit context, what it means for Norwegian interests, are not even commented on. The issue we are discussing now concerns the central securities regulation. In Norway, we have had a well-functioning system with a securities depository that has not had monopoly but is the only one that has had concession under the law. With the new legislation introduced here, which Norway agrees with this Decision, if it is adopted, a European competition between CSDs shall also be open in this area. Then one has to ask: what do we have to earn from it? Would it make it easier for Norwegian tax authorities, for Norwegian control authorities, for one to go away from the system that you have had until today, where the Swedish Securities Agency – which is part of Oslo Børs – is supposed to be where someone actually has this? In the same way that you have the Brønnøsund registers, you have a Securities Center as a base book in the case of shares and other securities. I'm surprised that it's not being more reflected about it, when there's been such a big and fundamental change in a system that's worked – based on the fact that we've had national rules, based on the fact that we've had one national actor, a national institution that's been doing this through concession. One should then turn up on it without one being willing to reflect more closely on what it will have to mean. It's important. When one talks about other issues here, one from several parties has been concerned that one should have better control over who are real rightholders, i.e. who is in control of shares, who is in real control of other securities. An important contribution to this today is that one knows that one has had the Securities Centre in Norway, which has helped to keep that overview. If the ambition and objective of this new regulatory framework – namely that one will have more competition and new entrants, where one will no longer register in the Norwegian Securities Centre but in other CSDs – yes, what does it mean for the supervisory authorities, tax authorities and us who elected the people to ensure that the decisions and intentions that one has in other cases are actually followed up? I'm surprised, I have to say, because it's not the will of this room to actually be involved in discussing to a greater extent what such major changes associated with institutions that we've had in Norwegian society over time have to mean. I would like to refer to what emerges from the matter, what is in the comments of the Central Party, and that we are not behind the committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e729	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e745	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e761	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, a reply be given to the comments of members of the Government and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e770	Let me first thank the Committee for a good cooperation in the matter. The representative proposal is based on 13 proposals to achieve more sustainable consumption. The proposals deal largely with a desire for tax increases, changes in fees, import product requirements, prohibitions and prohibitions on marketing and product content – all in order to achieve what the representative believes is necessary to achieve sustainable consumption. The Committee has received an assessment from the Government of the proposals, which have been answered by the Ministry of Climate and Environment, which have again submitted relevant questions to the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, the Ministry of Justice and Civil Protection and the Ministry of Children and Equal Opportunities. There are some complex proposals that have been put forward. Their adoption would result in the imposition of own excise duties, differentiated according to the environmental impact and depending on whether it was the final product or whether the products were suitable for distribution or rental. On the other hand, VAT is desired for the repair of consumer goods such as sports equipment, tour equipment, white goods, brown goods, furniture, clothing, shoes and consumer electronics. We all share the goal that everyone should make reasonable choices, both when it comes to facilitating the choice of environmentally friendly products, and when it comes to people being able to choose high-quality products that can be used further by others. The intention of the proposal is good, and we all agree on the ambition for a good environment. The government is already developing a national circular economy strategy. But we have to guard ourselves well to get there that we think it makes sense to regulate all sorts of actions and choices that the citizens are going to make. Nor should we get there that we introduce difficult and unbridled tax regimes with a lot of excise duties on the one hand, while we have to have detailed assessments of the product that is to be exempted from the tax, on the other hand. The majority of the Committee therefore draws attention to the importance of excise duties being designed to be both transparent and practicable. When it comes to value added tax, it is important to remember that the sole intention is to provide income to the State and should not initially be used as an instrument to change consumer behaviour, even if we have examples of the latter as well. One of the assumptions one has as a consumer in order to be able to choose an environmentally friendly product is the existing eco-labelling schemes, such as: the Nordic Swan Mark. The Government therefore agrees that we should work to strengthen the international eco-label schemes, and the Committee therefore insists that the proposal be rejected. The position is promoted by the Workers' Party, Right, Advance Party, Left and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e789	The working party shares its intentions to the proposers on a high level of ambition in environmental policy and to facilitate a more efficient management of natural resources and a more open development. Action in all areas is urgently needed to contribute to sustainable consumption and production, as proposed by the proposers. The circular economy must be set up to generate circular activity and innovation across the economy, and it must be reflected in the tax system and through the price of virgin natural resources. A system that allows resources to be reused without burdening nature and seizing new resources will make circular solutions more profitable at all stages of the value chain and contribute to technology development and jobs while providing environmental benefits. The need for minerals is increasing in the world. As a leading country in eco-innovation and climate action, we should also contribute to the availability and sustainable production of the minerals needed to implement a climate promise. World needs raw material for solar cells, electric cars and nanotechnologies. The intention behind many of the proposals is good, but at the same time it will be necessary to find operational criteria to implement them. It is also very difficult to review all the implications of the proposals. Therefore, the Workers' Party does not support proposals in this context. Together with the Swedish Environment Party Green and Red, we have a proposal asking the government to set up a selection to propose how material consumption can be reduced within a distribution and social profile, including: charges, the establishment of several lending schemes for consumer goods owned for lending, the strengthening of the Consumer Purchases Act and the recycling and recycling systems are put in context and contribute to lower consumption. It is a pity that this was probably not agreed. In particular, the Left should explain why they go against this. I take this into account the proposal to which the Labour Party is a part.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e804	The representative Ingrid Heggø has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e809	Right-wing government is working for a sustainable welfare society that takes care of the climate, the environment and biodiversity. We must be able to meet the needs of the people living today, without destroying the opportunities of future generations to meet their needs. In a good conservative spirit, we have to make sure that the world we leave to the next generation is at least as good as when we took over. That is why we need to reduce the pressure on natural resources, reduce emissions and create new green jobs. Then the circular economy and the UN's sustainability targets on sustainable production and consumption play an important role. It is about making better use of resources throughout the value chain, and it is precisely for this reason that the government has to create its own national circular economy strategy. If we want a sustainable economy, the solution is not to create a more complicated charging system that creates chaos and confusion with impossible boundaries. The solution is not to send the companies that change, either, a tax return of tens of billions from one year to another. Rather, we have to create a tax system that promotes value creation and reduces emissions. Therefore, this government lowers the tax on work while we increase the CO2 tax annually, so that those who pollute have to pay. In addition, we support measures such as cutting emissions and contributing to a greener circular economy. Let me give you an example: every year a huge amount of food is thrown into Norway, which corresponds to the emissions of 375,000 petrol cars. It is not okay, and therefore the government has set the goal of halving the food loss in Norway by 2030. I myself recently had the pleasure of visiting the Matsentral in Rogaland – great people who think with both their heads and their hearts, and who are on the move to save surplus food and give to the disadvantaged. The government just gave the food centres an extra 7 million. kr, which ensures that we bring down the food waste and contribute to a better circular economy in more and more parts of the country. We need to focus on more sustainable consumption, and the Right is delighted to discuss the new circular economy strategy. With the Right in Government, we will work for a sustainable welfare society that takes care of the climate, the environment and biodiversity.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e826	I have noticed that representatives from the government parties have gone so far in the debate and warned against introducing new taxes and changing taxes, which involve increased costs for business, which are poorly investigated and do not meet the objective. Well, that's a good summary of the policy that the government itself has pursued, which has also made it possible that several of the fees that you have brought, which have appeared in late night hours through negotiations in the Storting, have come without investigation and without warning to the entrepreneurs and to the most people in Norway, whom they affect. It was the government parties who brought the plastic bag charge, on the basis of a argument that it would meet some ideal objectives. So it didn't turn out to be either determined or reasonable thought in a good way, so one had to go back on it. It was the government parties who brought the airline passenger fee, who hit jobs in Norway, and who have no device to protect the environment, but to create more revenues to the state, where the tax burden on those travelling by long-distance flights in Norway – where we need planes to take care of what is an important part of the transport and collective offer in Norway – hits harder than for those travelling on holiday to the Far East. We have to be willing to use the charging policy to make changes, but it has to be done gradually, it has to be knowledge-based. That is what underlies the proposals put forward by the Central Party in this vote. What has happened during today's government is that the charging policy has been undermined by a later one as if one were to achieve some policy objectives. However, what is happening in practice is that one comes up with new proposals to get his own account going — and secure more revenue to the treasury. 5.4 B.C.E. kr extra has been charged each year during the current government compared to the level under the previous, red-green, government. There are record high charges in Norway, at the top of record toll prices. In addition, a more unsocial tax system has been introduced, which also contributes negatively to sustainable consumption. With that, I would like to address the proposal in the vote that the Central Party has on its own, and the proposals that we have with other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e843	The representative of Sigbjørn Gülsvik has addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e848	Both the world’s climate and the world’s diversity of species are under great pressure. We need to improve in all areas to ensure that the world becomes a viable place in the future. It's not that we can sort ourselves out of the climate crisis, it's unfortunately not that easy. The biggest job has to be done by those who have the greatest power, such as elected representatives, who can make decisions about how long we're going to run oil drilling, and like people who own big companies, and who can make decisions about how they're doing their production. We're not in a climate crisis because the population is driving too much car, but because the politicians have created a society where there are many places where driving is both easiest and cheapest. Unfortunately, the fact that it takes a lot of consumers to make environmentally friendly choices is a trend that we see everywhere. Last fall, for example, I took a bus and went from Tromsø to Oslo. It cost me twice as much money as it would have done to take a plane, and the trip also took more than 24 hours. The proposals we are dealing with today are a lot about consumers taking better care of things they have, rather than ever buying new ones. Here we also have a lot to go on. Buying new things goes everywhere, while repairs are often much less available. In fact, there is only one place in Norway where it is possible to train watchmakers. Most of those who work as watchmakers in Norway have had to move to Denmark or Sweden to take their education. In order to get our watch, bag or shoes fixed, we often have to spend time figuring out where it is possible, waiting a long time and paying dearly. When our society is set up so that it's difficult to make environmentally friendly choices, it's no wonder that that's how it turns out. When we look at the movements around us, that more and more people get involved in the environmental issues and want to make good choices in their lives, they won't be stopped by the fact that it's too heavy. The time is ripe for us to drop off the carousel for eternal growth in consumption, disposable items and unnecessary products made to meet designed needs, and take back the sense, which tells us that we don't have to have too much more than what we need. Especially can the potential be high in Urban Mining, as SV, the Green and Red Environmental Party suggests that we have to have our own big message on how we can... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e863	The representative must be allowed to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e869	Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e874	The representative of Solveig Skagvoll Foss has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e879	I can report, if anyone's wondering, that it's not easy to reach everything as a lonely wholesaler, but I'm very happy that I can stand here and also tell why we have suggested a more sustainable consumption. I think most people in this room can agree on three things: Firstly, our consumption is not sustainable today. The UN Panel on Nature clearly states that today’s consumption growth is among the main drivers of natural and environmental damage. Secondly, I think most people can agree that we have to consume smarter. If we reuse, recycle and share more, we will reduce our footprint. In addition, the circular economy can provide us with around 40,000 new jobs in Norway, some reports show. Thirdly, increasing GDP does not necessarily mean increasing the quality of life. Instead of working more, buying more and throwing more, we can put more value on time with friends and family, on clean air and leisure time. Increasing quality of life within natural tolerances is a better societal objective than increasing consumption. I want to rewind two years ago when this hall dealt with the government's announcement of waste and circular economy. The cancellation notice had a precise problem description: the way we consume creates environmental problems. For example, the chapter on waste prevention states:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘There are many examples that it is cheaper to buy new than to repair products. The low price difference between repair and new purchases does not reflect the pressures on production resources and the environment.» That's a good word. It might as well have been in the Green Party's programme as in a big message from the Right and the Advance Party. The problem is that the government has not solved the problem that the waste notification described so well. The proposals we are discussing today are in no way an attempt to correct it. We politicians must make it easy and profitable to make environmentally friendly choices – both for business and for consumers. Therefore, the Green Party proposes a number of changes to the tax system. We want to remove VAT on repairs, and we want to guarantee consumers a right to repair. We want a resource take-off fee, we want to provide consumers with information on greenhouse gas emissions and resource consumption in the production of goods, and we want to set aside funds for lending and sharing schemes in the municipalities, and we want an environmental tax on goods that are suitable for lending and sharing. Building Norway into a modern low-carbon society is one of the most important policy projects in our time. With that, I would like to address the Greens' proposal and the proposals we have with the Reds.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e903	Then the representative of Une Bastholm brought up the publishers to whom she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e908	The proposer made a number of proposals to contribute to a more sustainable consumption in Norway, and I fully share the rapporteur's wish and objective of a high level of ambition in environmental policy. It is necessary both to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, take care of nature and also to reduce the over-exploitation of resources we have in the world today. We need to facilitate sustainable management of natural resources and green economic development. The work of the government for a green transition, transition to a circular economy and ambitious climate targets is very important in this respect. I refer here to the Granavolden platform, where all these themes are important pillars. At the same time, we see it as important that the instruments implemented by the government are accurate and will help solve the environmental problems we face. The government is developing a national strategy for the circular economy. The core of the circular economy is resource efficiency in a broad sense. In my opinion, a national strategy will provide the best basis for achieving a green economy, which makes better use of resources. Important elements of this strategy will be increased emphasis on product design, sharing economy, service content and the use of waste raw materials for new products. This will reduce the pressure on natural resources and could provide new business models, increase the profitability of businesses that seize the opportunities and provide new jobs. The proposer has a number of proposals relating to the charging system. The Ministry of Finance has presented these questions and points out that environmental taxes need to be addressed as directly as possible to the environmental problem they are intended to address, and it must be possible to limit and implement them at acceptable administrative costs for both the charging authority and the business community. The proposals made by the proposer will require extensive investigations first, and the government is not ready to go ahead with these issues at this stage. The proposer also has a number of proposals to strengthen consumer rights, to help us get better products with higher quality, longer life, that can be recovered more easily and that are more repairable. I agree that we want better products with less content of dangerous substances and that are more circular. At the same time, we have concluded a number of agreements with other countries that are important for Norwegian business and for Norway. Both the EEA Agreement and the WTO Agreement give us commitments that may make it difficult to make strange product regulation. It is therefore also important that we continue the important impact we are making on the EU and the international environmental conventions in order to help ensure that not only Norway but also the rest of the world have the best possible international product legislation. The government is now working on a national strategy for a circular economy. Several of the themes included by the proposer will be discussed in this strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e923	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e928	I listened carefully to the article by the Council of State Elvesuen, and I was unable to hear him say anything about the proposal contained in the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green and Red Environmental Party. That is why I would like to say that this proposal: ‘The government is asking for a sample to propose how to reduce material consumption, within a distribution and social profile, in which, inter alia, charges, the establishment of several lending schemes for consumer products suitable for lending, the strengthening of the Consumer Purchases Act, and re-use and recycling systems are seen in the context and contribute to lower consumption.’ What in this proposal is the Council of State against?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e938	There's a lot of things here that we're going to look at. But where we are now – and the work of the government – we are going to put forward a strategy for the circular economy, and then many of these themes will also be part of it. So the reason is simply that we've had a waste strategy, and now we're going through a circular economy strategy. That is what we should focus on, so as to facilitate better resource use and reduce greenhouse gas emissions and other environmental impacts of unnecessary consumption.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e943	Is it true, then, that the Council of State is not against any of the things in the proposal I referred to?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e948	This proposal is about putting down a sample. I don't think that's right. I believe that we are now going to work on the matter we have about the circular economy, and that is where we should now concentrate the forces, implement it as we have planned, and then come back with the result.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e953	The left encouraged several times — while in opposition — proposals in its alternative budget for an air passenger charge with a significantly higher charge on long international flights than on flights in Norway. The device at the airline passenger charge in Norway was quite the opposite. There was a higher charge for those flying domestically, because it's both roads, compared to long trips abroad. Does the Council of State — from a climate and environmental point of view — consider that the device to which the air passenger charge was granted is not suitable for achieving the climate-related objectives and that it should therefore have been set up in another way?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e959	When it comes to air transport, I think you have to do a lot of things at the same time. We also have to do what we can to make the journey itself more environmentally friendly. Now, from next year, we also get a demand for advanced biofuels in air transport. We have to keep working on electric planes and get it going on our short-range networks. We need to look at better alternatives and improve on rail in South Scandinavia. And the arrangement for the air passenger fee is then changed so that there will be greater charges on flights out of the EEA than in the EEA.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e964	I thought it was very unfortunate when more than two years ago we received a big message about waste and the circular economy, which turned out to be just about waste management. We're told there's going to be a circular economy strategy, but it's unclear what will be included in it. I think the upheavals that are going to happen to re-use, recycling and sharing become the rule and not the exception in Norway are so great that we're going to need more than a government strategy to go through all the tools that are needed. Among other things, the committee that is currently grouped in the Chamber is interested in the tax system in order to achieve this. One of the proposals we are discussing today is to update the charging system, reward the use of recycled materials rather than virgin materials, which is one of the things that both boils the globe and displaces species. What does the Council of State think of those measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e969	Using taxes and taxes has always been the case, also in order to improve environmental performance. Otherwise, I do not agree that it is negative that we made a waste notification. I think it was important that we made those decisions – and then we have to move on to a circular economy case. I don't see any difference between that and the fact that we're now working on a strategy. There's no doubt that seeing the potential that has to be constantly developed for a circular economy is a big task. Now we get a strategy, and that's something that we and other countries have to work with for years to come. Looking at taxes will be part of the instrument you need to use, but besides that there will be a discussion that will appear when individual budgets are also provided.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e976	I really thought the question was quite precise – not only if he thinks this is positive. Firstly, what I would like to have answered is: Can we expect the government of a circular economy strategy to also address whether changes to the charging system can be made in order to provide benefits for the use of recycled materials rather than virgin materials? That's the first question. My second question is about the state council Ola Elvesuen also supports such a use of the charging system, a large part of the waste industry and those who work with these materials on a daily basis, including demand.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e981	To what extent it becomes part of the strategy, we have to look at it as it is designed. You'll have to look at instruments, and then this will also be part of it. But the decisions themselves will have to be taken in relation to the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e986	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e1004	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e1013	First of all, I would like to thank the Energy and Environment Committee and the Stortingen for dealing with the proposal so quickly. The proposal proposes legislative changes that are necessary for two reasons: firstly, there is a need for some legislative changes in order for Norway to comply with ICAO CORSIA. CORSIA is the technical name of a new market-based instrument adopted by the United Nations Civil Aviation Organisation in 2016 that will take effect from 2021. Secondly, there is a need for some minor changes to the law in the context of the transition from the third to the fourth phase of the European ETS starting on 1 January 2021. I think this is essentially technical. Firstly, the climate quota law is in practice a framework law. The proposed legislative changes are therefore mainly based on the authorisation to adopt the details of the regulation. Secondly, the amendments concern the national implementation of legislation already adopted by international organisations. This applies to both CORSIA, adopted by the United Nations Aviation Organisation, and the European ETS, adopted in the EU and the EEA. Since we are talking about harmonised legislation, we have to deal with what has been adopted and cannot make special adjustments. Having said that, I would like to make a few comments to CORSIA: the purpose of CORSIA is to avoid the growth of international aviation after 2020 increasing greenhouse gas emissions to the atmosphere. This is also referred to as a measure of carbon neutral growth. Aviation has to pay for additional emissions cuts in other sectors in order to address increased emissions from international aviation beyond 2020. In its hearing opinion, the Union for the Conservation of Nature criticises the level of ambition in CORSIA, and I agree that the level of ambition should have been higher. Greenhouse gas emissions in all sectors need to be drastically reduced up to 2050, while the UN Aviation Organisation only proposes to stabilise emissions at 2020 levels. Lower aviation effort means that other sectors need to do much more. But CORSIA is expressing the most ambitious thing that it has so far been possible to agree on. It took the UN more than two decades to establish a concrete instrument to limit emissions from international aviation. Until now, emissions have grown relatively unregulated. CORSIA is therefore a milestone and seems to gain relatively broad support in the voluntary phase. The level of ambition should have been higher, but that does not mean that we should say no to participation. Instead, I will continue to work to increase the level of ambition in CORSIA. CORSIA shall be reviewed every three years and this may be an opportunity to increase the level of ambition. Once again, I would like to thank you for the quick processing of the proposition. This allows us to adopt the necessary regulatory provisions in time for us to be able to comply with the requirements both in CORSIA and in the EU ETS.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e1030	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e1046	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to three rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e1055	I would like to begin by thanking the Committee for its work on the matter. It's always fun when the whole committee gathers on a matter, and not least when it comes to two such important things as financial security and easier working days for parents and family members with sick and nurturing kids, and self-employed people's conditions of sickness. With the changes in the rules of the care money grading system, the government follows up the decision of the four government parties in connection with the management of Prop. 12 L for 2018-2019, in December 2018. To secure financial security for parents with seriously ill and nursing children is a conscious bet for Left, Right, Advance Party and Christian People's Party. In 2017, we also expanded the care order to cover permanently ill children and to include more than 9,000 new families into the scheme – the largest extension of care money ever. Today, when we follow up on making the graduation rules flexible and making it possible to obtain full compensation without a time limit, it makes it very clear that not only do we have four civilian parties in celebrations care for families in an extremely demanding situation, but we also follow up with concrete and necessary changes and budgetary concessions. The fact that the red-green parties – as they did in the last year with plural power in government, 2013, were not willing to make changes to the care scheme – are also contributing to the convergence of the decision today is particularly gratifying. The fact that a mass mass today is behind the improvements proposed by the government is therefore all the more reason for me to give the individual parties the honour. The second proposal, better conditions for self-employed workers, has also been a field of action for the four governmental parties, not least for the Left. In every state budget since we came into power in the autumn of 2013, we have prioritised improving the conditions for small businesses, entrepreneurs and self-employed people. What's good for the little ones is usually good for the big ones too, it's not necessarily the opposite. In a good and developing cooperation with the three other parties, which are also engaged in good business, value creation and Norwegian jobs, we have among other things. have had a large impact on better retirement, maternity and sick pay schemes for self-employed, self-employed, both in traditional industries and at the intersection of art/culture/nutrition/business/business owners. It's amazing people, people who take a big personal risk of creating values and jobs that others, the community, depend on. There are people we need a lot more of, and they need good framework conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e1068	For many years, the legislation on care allowance has been a repetition of the work and social committee. The government has refused any necessary changes, but luckily, the majority of people have grown against it over and over again. SV has done a good job that drives matters, and it has been decided that the Christian People's Party has also joined. Nor shall their parents' involvement be forgotten in this matter. The working party is very happy that the unfair grading rules that are today end. But it has taken too long to get this to Stortinget. It does not believe that many families have had to wait until the summer of 2019 to get fair care money. If the government had voted for the proposals from the opposition already in December, these changes would have been implemented more quickly. We think these families should be compensated for the government choosing to wait with the law change, and we're behind the proposal on that. There are several elements of uncertainty in the government proposal, as referred to in the comments from the opposition in the setting. It is therefore important for the Labour Party to stress that recipients of care money are often in a very serious situation, where the child is so ill that there is a constant risk of acute situations. This understanding seems to be somewhat flawed in the government's representation. Ensuring family economics is absolutely necessary and decisive. This uncertainty in the management of the rules means that we believe that there is a need for a thorough evaluation and evaluation of the new rules, so that one can catch up and avoid bad results. In addition, we would like to remind you that the government has not followed up the decision of the Storting on a separate scheme for those who have not been entitled to care, and that the government must ensure that the care scheme is well known in the healthcare system. This must be followed by the government as soon as possible. Finally, I would like to point out that in the case of sickness benefits for self-employed workers, the Workers' Party is associated with SV in the view that the coverage should increase. As attempts to demand that work be carried out in their own industry rather than in normal working conditions are more and more frequent, it helps to shift responsibility to individuals, with the result that they lose their rights. In our view, it is therefore appropriate to provide for the introduction of a contract donor fee in which revenue is used to increase these rights. With that, I will take up the suggestions that the Workers' Party is behind in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e1085	The representative Fredric Holen Bjørdal has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e1090	What we are dealing with today is a follow-up of the government platform in terms of both care allowance and sick pay for self-employed people. The government wants to make better provision for parents who have night-care or are on standby with the change in the law on social security through the graduation rules of the care scheme. The rules for grading care allowances are amended so that account can be taken of the fact that some parents cannot be in work even if the children are in an established supervision and relief system. This government has repeatedly extended the care allowance scheme, both on its own initiative and on the initiative of the Stortinget. These changes correspond to the Government Platform and the Storting Request Decision to improve the scheme for parents who are unable to work due to night supervision and preparedness. According to today’s rules, caregivers cannot work even if the child is supervised by others because of the child’s condition. For example, this may be children with mental illness, who in crisis situations need parents or other fixed caregivers to come quickly to help, or somatic conditions that are unstable, and how acute aggravation is likely, even if the child is able to be in kindergarten or school. Nor does today’s legislation meet the exceptional need for rest that a caregiver may need as a result of the child’s need for frequent or long-term supervision at night. We want to take care of the need for flexibility and security of these parents, and the proposal will lead to more people receiving unupgraded care allowances or care allowances with a higher degree. A normal employee is entitled to 100 pst. sickness benefit on the basis of sickness benefit from day number one. This is financed by the employer through the employer’s fee, which normally amounts to 14.1 pst. of employees’ wages and salaries. The government wanted to review the rights of self-employed and freelancers in order to facilitate the start of its own business. The vast majority who start for themselves do it either because they want to create something new, or because they simply want the flexibility to give them independence. Since I have been self-employed myself, I must almost add that we are also in danger of obtaining the world's worst boss, namely ourselves. But with that flexibility also comes the responsibility to save yourself for vacation, retirement and to secure us social rights. There is no employer paying us an employer's fee. We have to do it ourselves. It often means lower taxes on the workplace, but increased responsibility for own insurance. Today the sole proprietor is entitled to 75 pst. coverage at a separate premium. With the government's proposal, a self-employed person at a special premium will take out insurance in order to be entitled to 80 pst. on the sick payroll basis instead of 75 pst. from the first day. With this we build a bridge between security and flexibility for private operators. This is good for the individual and good for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e1107	This is one of the most important things Stortinget is now dealing with in ours, for the families concerned. It is a matter of concern to human dignity, and it affects the ability and ability of families to care for their sick children. They do a great job for society and a great job for their kids, and I often ask myself the question, what is the alternative? Very often it would be an institution, which would not necessarily be the best for the child – by the way, I think the families are best to figure out for themselves – but it wouldn't be the best thing for society, if you think financially. For the Christian People's Party, this has been an important matter to work with. We took the matter into the important negotiations on Granavolden and got a say in this, and it lies in the government's political platform. That is to say, the rules for grading care allowance now provide better facilities for parents who are in night care or who are in a position to do so. We're now following this up. Care allowance shall replace loss of income for persons who have to be away from work because they care for a child who is in need of continuous supervision and care because of illness, injury or negligence. The children are the dearest thing we have, and when the children need their parents extra much, it's painful and difficult if the family's economy is to get in the way of the possibility of being present. Current rules for grading care allowances may lead to a reduction in the income of persons who are unable to take advantage of the time supervised by children to have gainful employment, because they must use this time to sleep after being awake for a long time, for example. because of night supervision or because they must be in constant preparedness due to the health status of the child. The change that is now taking place means opening up discretionary grading, so that it can be taken into account that some parents are unable to obtain labour income, even if the children spend time in kindergarten, school or other supervisory arrangements. This will provide increased financial security for parents of seriously ill children, and they may be present when the kids need it most. The Christian People's Party is the party of children and families. For us, the consideration of the children will always be in the first place. I have to add that is any thing good for the children, it's good for the community. The families who depend on care money are perhaps the most vulnerable families, and the Christian People's Party is very happy that today we have greater flexibility, which allows these families to meet a safer economic everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e1122	The care allowance scheme has been greatly expanded during this government. The target group was expanded by the changes in 2017, removing the requirement for life-threatening or other very serious illness in the child and including parents of long-term ill children. This gave twice as many families the right to care allowance. Following the latest changes adopted in 2018, up to 18 years of care can be provided on the basis of four weeks’ earnings in the labour market. No other welfare system is more robust. The government will change the rules for grading care allowance, so that parents with night care are better facilitated or in readiness. It is on the Granavolden platform, and it is followed up by this proposal. The 2017 reform of the care allowance scheme also introduced changes to the rules on grading. Before the change, all the graduation cases were assessed on the basis of a number of factors. After the change, a single count of the number of hours supervised by the sick child is made and the payment to the parents is reduced accordingly. Through the proposal we are considering today, the Employment and Welfare Act of 1 July will take into account that not all parents can work in the hours when the child is under the supervision of others. This will apply even if the quality of supervision is considered to be good. Care allowance can still be graduated, but there will be more flexibility in the scheme. Parents who, because of the child’s medical condition, have to be awake in order to supervise and care at night are now given the opportunity to sleep while the child is in kindergarten or at school, without reducing the amount of care. Parents who, because of the child’s medical condition, must be in a position to remain in the nursery or at school, will be able to stay nearby and be available without reducing the amount of care. The need for night protection and preparedness must be justified by the medical condition of the child and no distinction is made between somatic or mental diseases. The medical statement will be used for the assessment and the parents’ own reporting needs to be given great importance. In cases where parents cannot work at all, the care allowance will not be graduated — i.e. Give 100 pst. Pleasure money. Severely ill children may have many different diagnostics and needs, and the condition is not necessarily constant. It is therefore important to have flexible rules so that parents who can and will work when the child has good periods are able to do so. In assessing the ability to combine work and preparedness, a high degree of emphasis will be given to the assessment of parents. The proposed legislation provides for a regulatory home. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs will be in close contact with the Directorate of Labour and Welfare on developments in this area, so as to be able to quickly catch up if there is a need for clarification of the legislation. The necessary adjustments may be made more quickly by means of a regulation than by legislative amendment.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e1137	Once again we have the matter of care money up to the discussion here in the hall. It finally came on the table a fairer practice of grading care money. This is important, but the proposals that are on the table clearly show that there is no SV that has designed this new practice. The grading rules have been a heavy burden for some very few families for a long time now. This means we have to be compensated for the way in which the graduation rules are agreed to be now. We have put forward proposals on this subject. We're happy to take a big step in the right direction, but we're not quite happy. What's in the proposition is still opening up so that Nav can allow himself to know better than a specialist who knows the child and who knows the family. It also opens up that Nav can evaluate the risk of acute situations occurring, and graduated with respect to what Nav thinks about it and not what the specialist doctor thinks about it. We don't think this is enough. I understand the lion's chamber when they present their concerns about this, but it is said to see this in practice. We have to follow closely. To the last on what practice is going to be. Nav has streamlined its practice in many areas. It may seem that the strictest possible interpretation of the law is to be the leading thing. This is why we are reacting to the openings that are currently located, so that it still has to be graduated. SV is very skeptical for Nav to override the legends. We believe that health professionals are better equipped to take these assessments, and that more decisive attention should be paid to the recommendations of doctors and specialists than is currently the case. That is why we have put forward two proposals in this matter. In addition to this, we are very positive that the health benefits for self-employed persons are increasing. They can be increased for the benefit of a lot of people.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e1150	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e1166	At the request of the Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e1175	The size should now examine the draft representative for a cultural school for all, promoted by representatives from SV. Overall, I would like to assume that the cultural schools are an important part of the core wall of the nationwide cultural activity. Culture schools are an extension of the general training provision of primary schools in practical-aesthetic subjects. The cultural school helps to strengthen the competence and joy of culture in children and young people. We must recognise the role of cultural schools as a contributor to a richer and better life for students, children and young people and the community. We need to facilitate the continuing contribution of cultural schools to the valuable cultural experiences of the students. The aim must be to have an equivalent quality offer in the cultural school, where all children can participate, no matter where they live or what their parents serve. The cultural school is an important meeting point and a significant resource for basic, cultural and community education in the municipalities. The government is linking the cultural school to the cultural sector, while the opposition is more concerned with the link to education. Formation is an important part of education. Proposalers point to a number of points that should be included in the notified call for proposals, which in turn are essential for ensuring the cultural school as a further school. Both organisation and funding need to be addressed. I think both the government parties and the proposers will explain this, and refer otherwise to the vote. In addition, with proposals for new teacher training for practical-esthetic subjects and the future strategy for practical-esthetic subjects, I encourage professionals and interested parties to follow up on and follow up on recordings, so that any changes are made to the better, including for the cultural school. For the Central Party, the cultural school is important in itself, with its activity, its students, its professionals and its cultural expression, and in addition, it is an important part of the cultural base wall. The aim is for all children who want it to be offered a place in the cultural school at a reasonable price. The cultural school shall help children and young people to have equal opportunities to develop their skills and to experience joy and mastery. We want to increase the framework for cultural schools so that the waiting lists are reduced, prices are moderated and the offer is expanded to more artistic expressions and singers. Better cooperation between cultural schools and voluntary teams and organisations, SFOs and other relevant arenas where culture and children meet needs to be facilitated. The growing-up children and young people will become all-rounders. They should have the opportunity to attend cultural schools. They must be able to play on many strings. With that, I'd like to address the suggestions that the Center Party is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e1190	The representative Marit Knutsdatter Strand has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e1195	Not all children claim to be on the football or handball field. Some people have difficulty hanging out with them already in the youngest classes. What's going to be an arena for play, joy and fellowship, is for some an arena where they come to cards. The differences are increasing as the children grow up. The interest is diminishing, the loss experiences are growing, and they're kind of not quite in the crowd. Finally, they give up and end, someone without finding their alternative arena. In such cases, it is always an extra pleasure to see children who find their interest, who find their talent, as teachers, and who experience mastery. For some, the cultural school is such a place. The Workers' Party wants all children who want it to have the opportunity to attend a cultural school. Then the availability has to be there. The law helps, but does not give children an individual right. The cultural school is in many municipalities a scarce asset that you compete for. In my hometown, Harstad, there are years of waiting to enter piano or guitar lessons. Yes, we have a good cultural school, but the cost of providing increased accessibility is not the priority that municipal politicians can give, even if the will is there. Statutory tasks, where users have individual rights, go ahead – far ahead. The municipal funds are not exhaustive, and too often the cultural school and the development of it becomes a municipal balancing post. Sometimes the offer is there, but the price is so high that Mom and Dad have to say no for economic reasons. An increasing number of children experience exclusion as poverty and poor finances create. Many municipalities have discount and moderation schemes, but the proportion becomes too many a barrier, which in turn makes the cultural school an offer for the few. This should not be the case and the introduction of a national maximum price should be considered. It has been so strangely quiet from the government about the cultural school and its role. It's not due to dressy modesty. It's because nothing happens. Isn't it high time we renewed and reinforced the intentions of the Stortinget when the cultural school was legislated 20 years ago? When action is not taken by the government, the Storting must take the initiative. The Labour Party takes note of the Government's promises that something will happen, but we believe that it is not enough. The cultural school is so important that it deserves its own big message and is not eaten off with a chapter in a communication on child and youth culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e1206	Should the representative address the proposal of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e1211	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e1216	The representative Kari-Anne Opsal then addressed the proposal of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e1221	The music and cultural schools are really a crucial part of the cultural core wall in Kommune-Norway. I think there is a broad consensus about the importance they have, and how we all want it to facilitate good quality, diversity and provision in the municipalities, and also that the social profile should be strengthened. But I have to say that I really wonder how opposition parties have come along, or whether they have really slept an hour. Now we just had the Labour Party representative up here, who says it's "wonderfully quiet from the government" in terms of the cultural school. That's not it. There's a job going on, and there's a cultural school message coming in the message about child and youth culture, and I'm very happy about that. A great deal of what is being recorded here will be included in this message. Anyway, I think it's good that we have the opportunity to discuss the cultural schools. It's important. And I'm getting used to the fact that the opposition parties are promoting proposals on matters that are either already adopted, that are being processed, or that are being notified. But here the representatives of the SV must have followed extremely poorly. The reason for this proposal is that the representatives behind it will be sure that the cultural school will be given the place it deserves, in the big news coming, and that there will be no doubt about the importance of the cultural schools. But just ten months ago, one of the proposers behind this proposal for a representative asked Mr Sanner a question about this, where the Minister of Knowledge assured in his reply that the decision on the schools of culture will be followed up in a good way, and that we will strengthen this field. I do not know what the reason is that SV is still promoting a representative proposal now less than one year later, but it is at least a strange matter. Then I would also like to comment on one of the comments of the Workers' Party, SV and the Center's party in the setting. It's written that it's ‘sorry that the cultural school succeeds so poorly with a broad recruitment of children from all social and ethnic groups’. Now we're going to be careful to generalise, but I'm from a municipality, Lørenskog, which is Norway's third largest immigrant municipality, and as a local politician, I've been working closely with the music and cultural school every year. This will be rejected in blank. We'll meet everyone. Over half of those who are ironers or pianists have non-Western backgrounds. We have a positive school environment, which the municipal politicians have prioritised. The local economy is better than it has been since the last century, and it is up to local politicians to do so. We are present in all primary schools, we work closely with secondary schools. So I don't think this hits completely. I am pleased that there will be a big message. I look forward to getting it to treatment, because it's important. I'm honored at the cultural schools, and I'm glad that we can do a job to strengthen the role of cultural schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e1239	All children and young people are entitled to participate in artistic and cultural activities under the Convention on the Rights of the Child. It's because art and culture build people. It lets us express ourselves, it challenges us, and it develops us. This is why the cultural school is so important – both as a separate school team of teachers with formal vocational education and a high level of real-life competence, a school which, in the same way as the rest of the education sector, is to train and form, and as part of the cultural base wall, the cultural life that is present in the whole country, which is to reach a wide range and the rest of the professional and voluntary cultural life depends on. Nevertheless, too few children and young people attend the cultural school. Prices are too high in many places, many families don't know about the offers, and the threshold for participation can be high. It is particularly serious at a time when both the economic differences are increasing and there are more children in poor families in this country. And then it's gone in the wrong direction over the last few years. The figures show that the number of students has fallen quite steadily in the cultural school, and is now below 100,000. At the same time, more than 7 000 children are in line. That's why we need a cultural school lift, both as a school of our own, and as part of the cultural base wall, a lift that ensures that more people get involved, and that the threshold is lowered, and for an offer of variety and high quality. There's going to be a big message about the cultural school. In fact, according to the decision of the Storting, through which the opposition was given, it would be a ‘own big message about a strengthened cultural school’ to quote. But the government has rather chosen to merge it into a general communication on child and youth culture. There can't be a vague thought map of a message, as this government often does. Therefore, SV in this case proposes some important steps for a stronger cultural school for the many. First of all, we are proposing to consolidate a national framework plan for the cultural school, so that we get good quality and variation in offers across the country. Secondly, we propose to give cultural schools good framework conditions through predictable funding and incentives. And thirdly, we propose several steps to lower the threshold of participation, so that the cultural school can be for everyone – get back a free and voluntary cultural school class, as the government cut off as one of its very first steps in government – because much more cooperation between primary school and cultural school will make the way into the cultural school shorter. We also want a maximum price scheme related to funding, so that more families can afford to send their kids – to mention something. All the proposals are about creating a cultural school for the many.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e1261	The left believes that all children should experience and participate in cultural activities. It's a kind of democratic training. The art and culture mirror the society we live in and ask questions about it. At the same time, it gives us more possibilities to express ourselves. Children's voices are weaker than adults. That's why it's so important that kids and young people get involved in creating artistic and cultural expressions, and they're represented. The cultural school is central to this work. It is available in all municipalities and thus reaches out widely, while it is important to develop local talents. Cultural schools shall be different. Local trade unions, interests and history are good reasons why some people offer oral harps, while others offer animation. Local specialities are fine and contribute to diversity and to, for example: strengthening local cultural heritage. Municipalities must have the freedom to find out which solution gives them the best cultural school offer. At the same time, it's been 20 years since we last had a big message about the cultural school. It is time to take a foot in the ground and see if the offer is still wide enough and of good quality. As I said, the goal of the Left is that all children should have access to quality cultural activities, where they can participate in creating and expressing themselves. That is precisely why I am pleased that the Minister of Culture and the Minister of Education will join forces on the Communication on Child and Youth Culture, so that it will also include the School of Culture. The left will have a proper cultural promise for children and young people. The keywords are diversity and quality. I think it would be a strength to see the different offers in the context. Children participate in and experience culture in different arenas: at school, in the SFO, at the cultural school, in volunteering and with the family. Often, there is also cross-cutting cooperation between actors – and that is good. All of these places form the children as an audience, they find new learning and masters arenas, and they get new perspectives. In addition to having good experiences, it helps to equip them to become good citizens. Then it's important that we find new ways to lower the thresholds for participation. Facilitating increased cooperation between the SFO and the cultural school can contribute to this. In the government platform, the Left has been provided with support to provide children from low-income families with free SFOs after school. In addition, a national framework plan shall be drawn up to ensure common leadership and quality requirements. The majority of children in primary school attend the SFO today, but there are few national guidelines on what the offer should be. Now we should focus on content and price. If we are able to reach those children who usually do not attend the cultural school with the SFO offer, it is clear that it will be valuable for them – and everyone else – to participate in good cultural activities in the school leisure system. There may be one way to give more children the opportunity to participate in the culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e1274	It's very funny that we're now going to focus on the cultural school. It was legislated 22 years ago, and then, just two years ago, the Christian People's Party promoted the proposal for a big message that is now coming. We also strengthened the Council of Culture Schools with development funds for the development of a framework plan. It was very stubborn. The cultural school is an important offer and forms an important part of the school and cultural offer for young people across the country. Yeah, they're molding there. They get knowledge, they get experiences, and they get skills. The possibility of participating in this artistic environment gives them greater living space. It's another arena to succeed in than the one they meet in school. Nevertheless, this is organised differently and varies in capacity and quality in Norway. We therefore respond to this message, where we need to look at and assess the different aspects. Even I've had the pleasure of being a principal for 19 years for a fairly large cultural school, with 1,000-1,500 students a year, and have seen the flash in the eyes of children who experience this, and who both grow up as a human being and perhaps become artists later in life, either as professionals or as amateurs. Too many municipalities have waiting lists. We need to look at that in the future. In addition, we need to look at the maximum payment, which was cancelled in 2004. It's too expensive some places. I disagree that a mere recruiter from what is commonly called the elite. Today, the cultural school is recruiting from all walks of life, but this also needs to be strengthened. This applies to learning environment and competence requirements. We agree that we need to take greater financial responsibility for the educational development work in the cultural school, and I would like to thank the cultural school council and the fires that have made this young school team stand up over the years. It is important to ensure a cultural school, for my part, with emphasis on ‘school’, so that more municipalities are given this offer to their children, and to see how the young and the cultural environment grow. Yes, we in the Christian People's Party also believe that breadth and diversity are important factors that the new message must contain. The further emphasis of the government on cooperation between schools, cultural schools and volunteering is essential. We have high expectations for the announcement that comes, where we can put the spotlight on teaching facilities, that they need to clear up before and after teaching, a balance between individual training and group education. The problem with the cultural school is that it always comes in party speeches, cross-political. Now we have to make sure that we lift the cultural school.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e1291	Culture School is a valuable and important part of the cultural offer for children and young people. By looking at the cultural school in the context of other instruments in the field of child and youth culture, we can help to strengthen the supply of children and young people. Now we have a golden opportunity to do just that. The government is now making a big message about child and youth culture. It's the first time it's been done. The notification shall be submitted in the autumn of 2020 and the cultural school will be a central theme. The government works for a good quality cultural school offering. In the Communication, we will also look at measures to give more children and young people the opportunity to participate in the cultural school. Culture School is an arena for membership, inclusion and social community. Children can experience mastering here, regardless of, for example: language skills, cultural and social background. I am concerned about removing barriers, so that more children and young people, regardless of background, are given the opportunity to participate in the cultural school. In reporting, we will look at both the functioning of different types of moderation schemes and consider other measures that can stimulate broad participation in the cultural school. We have ordered a knowledge base on the cultural school, which comes in autumn 2019. Here, issues of competence, accessibility, inclusion, cooperation with other key actors, funding and equity for the provision of cultural education will be highlighted. We are in the process of playing with key actors and a number of municipalities to gain a better understanding of the issues and questions raised by cultural schools and municipalities. The cultural school offer shall be relevant to both current and future children and young people. I think we can all agree that their views and perspectives need to be heard when we are going to write a message about culture for, with and by children and young people. The participation of children and young people in work is important. We set up dialogues and meeting places where children and young people can communicate what they are busy about. We've given the cultural idea the task of getting input from children and young people aged 3 to 19. The representatives also propose to strengthen the practical and aesthetic subjects at school through enhanced cooperation with the cultural school. Strengthening the practical and aesthetic subjects in school will be the theme of the strategy for the practical and aesthetic subjects that are soon to be ready. The strategy will have a broad approach. We are among others undertaken by actions that contribute to the empowerment of teachers in these fields. Finally, I would like to say that I fully agree with the representatives behind the proposal that cultural schools are important. We're going to provide an equivalent high-quality cultural school offering.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e1306	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e1311	The Council of State explained a lot about the process, but what ambitions does the Council of State have regarding the part of the Communication on Culture Schools? What are the three most important grips he sees for himself?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e1316	I probably did more than explain the process itself. I was very clear that we are concerned about quality. We are concerned with inclusion and removing barriers for groups that are not currently participating in the cultural school offer. We are engaged in cooperation with other key actors, and I also see that the cultural school can play a very important role in the integration work. I have the pleasure of traveling all over Norway and talking about both knowledge, culture and integration, and I often see that the cultural school builds a bridge between cultures, where people can be proud of their own culture, and that you can also show others's.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e1321	I still feel that there is a description of the situation and little grip. One thing that remains in many municipalities, and I also believe in Oslo – I come from Bergen – is that there is a very big difference in the socio-economic background of those who attend the cultural school. What does the Council of State consider to be the most important measure of balancing this inequality?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e1328	It's very interesting that the red-green parts are now trying to be very offensive. You didn't do much when you were in government yourself. On the contrary, it is the bourgeois government that is now really addressing this issue. The fact that we are now joining forces, the Ministry of Knowledge and the Ministry of Culture, I believe that we can contribute to an even better message, rather than all of us operating in our own sectors. I have pointed out both in my main post and in the previous line of the representative that we are concerned with removing barriers. That means we want to look at moderation arrangements. Some municipalities are nice, others are not. I am concerned that the policy we are pursuing should be knowledge-based and not based on vision. That's why we've ordered a thorough knowledge base. It is clear for the autumn, and with that in mind, and in dialogue with children and young people, municipalities and other actors, we will present an exciting and ambitious message in the autumn of 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e1337	We can all agree that we are looking forward to the big message. It would have been even more enjoyable if we could adopt any elevation for the cultural school today. I drew myself a line because I want to ask a little bit about the strategy for the practical and aesthetic subjects. It has been in demand for several years and is something many of us have great expectations. The Council of State writes in the letter to the Committee that there will be a broad approach, but also stresses in the letter that it is about the number of teachers and the competence of teachers. On the basis of this proposal, there is probably so much content in school everyday life, how the practical and aesthetic subjects have a place there as well. How does the Council of State see that we should also be able to observe the practical and, where appropriate, aesthetic cultural expressions in school everyday life with new curricula and new assessment regulations, and also in line with the new strategy that is coming? How can we raise the subjects as a whole?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e1344	Let me first say I'm very pleased with the commitment. I think it is good that we have this debate, although the proposal is not adopted, precisely because the parties can contribute jointly to raising these important issues. It has been a wish that the strategy on the practical and aesthetic subjects should come sooner. I still think it's better that we get it after that we got the new curriculum out at the hearing, precisely because it's about content. Obviously, teachers' competences, hours, cooperation with cultural life, etc. Although we have now sent the new curricula to be consulted, where more subjects will have a more practical and exploratory side, and greater emphasis will be placed on the practical and aesthetic subjects. So in the strategy we come up with if not for too long, we also focus on the content of the school.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e1349	Then, of course, we're looking forward to the strategy coming. As far as the curriculum is concerned, I just have to say that we had a big mark on Wednesday on how important, for example. Singing is in school, and how it is now going to be stripped out of what has been an important mandate for the school and for the social mission that teachers have to accomplish through the curricula. But if we're going to focus on the strategy on the practical and aesthetic subjects, I think it's also a little bit interesting to hear about the knowledge base that the ministry is now working on and catching up to the big picture, because there's no doubt that the strategy and the knowledge base should be viewed in context. What is the kind of knowledge base that may have been acquired before setting down any strategic objectives for the practical and aesthetic subjects?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e1357	The basis of knowledge of the practical and aesthetic subjects has been established through the renewal of the profession, with a high focus on both involvement and on skilled professionals in the various educational syllabus groups. But let me just say that I totally disagree that singing is stripped out of school. Rather, on the contrary, I would like to see more singing at school in several subjects. I myself was on a very nice marking a few days ago that was about singing in school. But as I've also said in other contexts, it's not that everything we want to do at school should be defined in terms of competence in the various subjects, especially because we've agreed that there must be more room for teachers to be teachers, and to choose song as a method in the different subjects.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e1362	The cultural school is a fantastic offer, an important school team and a crucial part of the cultural base wall. But unfortunately, the threshold for participation is too high. Too many families don't have the money or the opportunity to leave their children with them. The efforts to make the cultural school more accessible to all have been weakened by this government. A good measure of that is how many students have been admitted to the cultural school. Today 99,200 have received cultural education. In the last red-green year, 108 000 places were assigned to cultural schools. The trend is clear: while we made sure that more people got a place evenly year after year, a good development, this government has gone down steadily. So I have to ask: what is the government's policy that has not worked?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e1367	Now it's not that the cultural school is a state school offer. The cultural school offer is given in the municipalities. The Socialist Left Party also has influence in some municipalities and cities. This means that SV has the full opportunity to prioritize this in the municipalities. I would like to see even more children go to the cultural school, and that's why I'm so concerned that we're going to do a good and thorough job on this message, by bringing up an important knowledge base where we're just going to look at funding and self-payment for the cultural school offer. As I also stressed in my article, I see the cultural school as an important offer to both strengthen community and contribute to inclusion and integration. That means we have to remove barriers. We have to make it possible for more children to participate. I think both the representative and I should also contribute to our local politicians prioritizing the provision of cultural education in their municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e1374	Fortunately, we can agree on that, but I have to remind you that one of the very first steps this government took when they came to the offices was just to remove the free free free cultural school hour. It might have something to do with those numbers, I guess. I'll ask you a new question. We have seen several large-scale announcements from this government, which are general and vague without any specific measures, for example. to strengthen the cultural field. Therefore, many in the field are also concerned that the forthcoming communication will not contain the specific policy needed to raise the cultural school. That is why I would like to remind you that in June 2017, a unanimous uprising instructed the government to present a ‘own big message on a strengthened cultural school for the future’. It was Decision 897 to be completely accurate. How can the Council of State feel that a separate big-time report on enhanced cultural education has been followed up when it is backed up by a general communication dealing with much more areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e1381	It is not more correct that the representative repeats several times that the government has vague and little concrete messaging. I totally disagree. The accusation often made by the government is that the pace of reform is too high. It comes from the Socialist Left Party in particular. We are implementing important reforms to strengthen the provision of citizens. Yes, I think it's going to be a much better message when knowledge and culture create this message together – by getting a good knowledge base, by including children and young people, by also giving them the opportunity to make their input and to participate in shaping this message. Then I think it's good that we spend a little more time, get a message with clear ambitions, and then chisel out a policy that allows more children and young people to participate in this important offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e1388	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e1393	Seeing the whole child, developing his talent, there's a lot of entrances to it. Art and culture have their own ability to reach children. Being affected, being awakened, experiencing yourself in other situations, the relationship between mathematics and music is documented, it's with creativity, it's with creative learning -- all this is possible. The council replied to me in the reply, saying that we were just criticizing. But I was so lucky to be the City Council for kindergarten, school and sports in 2001 and did something about it – three measures, which I think is very good. One is how the cultural school is located. Today, there is often a physical distinction — by having to travel to some place to attend the cultural school. Putting the cultural school in the vicinity, as part of the school, is an important step — getting it into the SFO — or the AKS, as it is called here in the Oslo area — so that transport, which is an important barrier, is avoided. Then it's the teacher's cancer. There are amazing teacher powers in the cultural school, with enormous competence, and with a – I am really quite surprised – higher average than what you find in the school, also in Bergen. What we were working on was that we could make more divided positions, so that those who taught in the cultural school also taught in the aesthetic subjects in the school. Children are both affected by the content of such competence and know very quickly whether the teachers like what they teach, and can. I think that's incredibly important, because my experience – also from Bergen – is that you often took these hours as a balancing post for teachers in other disciplines. Then you really exclude children very much from the possibility of seeing yourself in other contexts. The last catch we took was that in that district – Laksevåg Township – which had the lowest application for the cultural school, we introduced one extra hour at the second stage, where the cultural school was given the task of showing the four directions in the cultural school: dance, drama, music and visual subjects. The result was that we got 30 pst. increase in the number of applicants for the cultural school. This is three good grips, which I hope the Council of State has noted. We lost our options. The right-hand side took over. They cut all these measures and did not build up the offer in the Laksevåg district either. I hope that a message is now being made that inspires municipalities to get to grips with the opportunities they have in creative and aesthetic subjects, creative subjects. In the transformation work, it becomes incredibly important that those we get in the future have the creativity that is necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e1410	Getting permission to talk about the cultural sphere is always a pleasure. Getting to join and develop the school team is almost even better. As you can see, this is a good debate. It is claimed that the government offices are silent about the theme, but it is not. We have had this thoroughly documented here today – through the dispensation from the Council of State. The government is doing a good job. A big message about child and youth culture is being worked on these days, where the cultural sphere will be a central theme. I think it's very good that we see this across the silos that are often seen. It is important to work for a high-quality, high-quality cultural school, and it is crucial that several young people participate in the cultural sphere. It develops talent, it stimulates creation, and it gives security and vitality. Over the last few years, the cultural sphere has been changing, in line with other schools. A framework plan has been developed through the Norwegian School of Culture Council, on request from the municipalities. Gradually, this is part of the plan of several municipalities. This shows that the municipalities as owners see the cultural sphere as an important locality and choose to use the framework plan as a tool to further develop the school. The implementation is done from below, by those who wear the shoe and who should know the ownership of this frame plan. Municipalities play a central role in connecting cultural schools, volunteers and SFOs, while at the same time strengthening the commitment and ownership of the municipality to the cultural field. A thorough job is being done with the message, and it is fastening a lot of work. Here too, children and young people will have a voice. It'll be important. The cultural sphere plays an important role in the work of integration in many municipalities today. As seen in the system, the cultural sphere can play an even more important role in this work. As a spokesperson, I always felt solemn when I had the opportunity to greet assemblies where the cultural ball contributed. Through the work on the current bigotry message, the cultural sphere will continue to play an even more central role. Many of the representative proposals will be discussed through the message and will receive its conclusion there. This will be an even better anchoring and a safer basis than a submitted Document 8 proposal can provide. We look forward to the message with joy and are certain that the cultural sphere gets its place and its profession strengthened by the work being done here.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e1429	As I said in my previous post, I am very happy that we can pay attention to the cultural schools, and that we can also get to do what we can to strengthen the cultural schools and make them even better than they are. But I think it's actually a little unfortunate when so many opposition representatives stand here and exaggerate part of the challenges we have. I think it doesn't deserve the cultural schools, and it can, in the worst case, help to make fewer applicants there, because they think there is either too much money or there is no financial support, or it's too hard to find space. I took part in a debate about the cultural schools as an inclusive arena – or talent factory, as it was called – in Arendal last year. In connection with that, I talked to a lot of cultural school principals. It's true that fewer people attend the cultural school today. There has been a falling trend, but it is not as dramatic as it is produced as it is. These include: on falling child coal, the number of children in each coal decreased. It's at least one of the reasons that was brought out by a principal at a cultural school. In addition, he believed that the schools in general have become better at managing the waiting lists. Average prices have not increased in the last five years. The municipalities have been good at prioritizing this. As a principal also said, waiters are a double edged sword. In some municipalities there is no age limit for waiting list. You put your newborn on the waiting list to make sure it gets a seat. At the same time, many people don't get away from waiting lists. You do a job to fix it. As he, with glimpses in his eye, told me, there are some cultural schools that like to operate with long waiting lists, because it can exert pressure on the politicians. I hadn't seen it come as a local politician. I hope it's not a widespread practice. But we have to have some ice in our stomachs and don't make things worse than they actually are. I really look forward to this big message. This government cares about culture and the place of cultural schools. After the debate here in the Chamber to judge, there is a cross-political consensus, and there are many who are pleased to see this communication. I disagree that we must take decisions here today. We should build our assessments and our decisions on a good knowledge base, and we will have that in the autumn. I am absolutely sure that the sector will also make a lot of input into the further work on this message. So it's much better with an overall assessment than that we're now making decisions piece by piece and division. This I think will be good when we get a message about the cultural school.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e1444	I have to say there's something special to be blamed for that we're helping raise the threshold to participate in the cultural school because we have an commitment to lower the threshold, as the representative from the Right now did from the pulpit. I believe that – to be awfully honest – is a bit rude. But yes, there's a lot of positive happening around Culture School-Norway. Many cultural schools work well, fortunately. I visited Trondheim Municipal Cultural School not long ago, and they show how to create a simpler way in through cooperation with primary school. It was very inspiring. Nevertheless, it is still the case that fewer and fewer people attend the cultural school. We don't exaggerate when we say that -- actually, I referred to the exact numbers in the substitution a little bit ago. Then we hear from the representative from the Right that the reason is lower student coal, and then I will challenge the Council of State, because the Council of State did not answer my question earlier: Is this the explanation? Is that why fewer people go to the cultural school today? And are you satisfied with that development? Should it not be a goal for more people – in any case – to attend the cultural school? It is in the framework plan of the Norwegian School of Culture Council that the cultural school is an offer for everyone. Then I must boast to the Christian People's Party, because the Christian People's Party is very happy in the cultural school, we know that. It's a little bit like this law is their heart children, so this is a matter we've shared for a long time. Last summer, the undersigned and the representative Hans Fredrik Gruvan were out in the paper because there were new figures that get fewer participants, unfortunately, and talked about many of the same measures to lower the threshold, to make it easier. We agreed on that in the game, and I am proposing the measures here today. It was also, as mentioned, the Christian People's Party that promoted the proposal for a separate school report, a separate message to strengthen the cultural school for the future. Therefore, I will now challenge the Christian People's Party: Does the representative of the Christian People's Party believe that this combined, more general message follows up the decision of the Greatness, which the party bravely fought out, in a sufficiently good way? Is this a separate message about the cultural school, or is it something else?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e1457	The representative Turid Kristensen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e1463	It really hasn't been my intention to be rude, and I'm not trying to underestimate that there are waiting lists, and that there are more people who want to participate. That's one of the things we're going to look at in this scheme, which the Minister of Knowledge was about. But what I think is that you should not exaggerate. The figures for increased waiting lists may well be drawn up, but it should also be possible to take into account the fact that there is a falling number of children. You can talk about prices, but don't say they've increased when they don't actually have them. I think that can deter. In fact, instead of speaking in this way, all the good support schemes that families with children have for children to participate in should be brought forward. A declaration of leisure has been signed and is widely represented by ministries and organisations. The contribution to child poverty, which is just to ensure that children and young people get involved, has increased from 100 million. SEK in 2014 to 312 million. kr in 2019. Nav has an activity card that can help families get their children into the cultural school, and now we've also adopted a leisure card to ensure this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e1473	The representative Freddy André Øvstegård has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e1478	It is in particular to accuse people who raise a case that unfortunately there are too few people who get to take part in the offer, to contribute to this development. I will stand by that. And then I almost have to ask the representative from the Right to go into the record when it is published later today, and see if I have ever said in this room that prices have increased. I don't – no, absolutely not. What I've said is that prices are too high, and they've been too long. It's a problem. That is why we have made concrete proposals today, including: to reintroduce one of the good tools we had, which this government had removed as one of its first steps, that is, the free volunteer cultural school hour, which built bridges between primary and cultural school, had cooperation, showed all children that there is an offer here, and gave them a free way in. That's where we could've started. But that's what the government is rejecting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e1487	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e1503	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows of replies are given after contributions by members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time should also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e1512	I would like to thank the Committee and its members for their cooperation in this matter, as rapporteur. The relatively large number of proposals in the case actually lies a little. As you can see from the comments, there is a broad consensus on the main features and challenges that the communication outlines. Firstly, there is a competence challenge of 3000 purchasing points, with purchases ranging from small sums of consumer goods to billions of contracts such as the Follo tunnel. The provision of higher education in this area is still insufficient, and good initiatives, such as the Academy of Acquisitions, may not lack as much money as enough first-level professionals to develop the area of competence. Secondly, there is the balance between large purchasers and the ability of small and medium-sized enterprises to participate in competition. We have seen cases where Norwegian companies refuse to take the risk of an excessive contract. The Communication and the observations here underline that acquisitions should facilitate participation by small and medium-sized enterprises in public acquisitions. We are going to avoid situations like the one we experienced where I came from, when the hospitals were going to buy a hotel agreement, and we are going to avoid facilitating unnatural monopolies on the basis of public procurement. Thirdly, there are a number of requirements for procurement to support the societal objectives of the public. This is a requirement for predictability, working conditions, apprentices, innovation, climate, environment, sustainability, equality, non-discrimination and a balance between economies of scale and small scale. There are objectives that are also widely agreed on, but which also contribute to target conflicts for individual purchases, where they can work in the same way, but not rarely in different directions. In this context, I would like to highlight two objectives that the Committee has also underlined: the objective of taking risks in innovation procurement, where the risk-sharing and risk-reduction schemes in place are very important in order to contribute to the public driving innovation in Norway, and to the climate and environment, where public procurement practices are very important in achieving our objectives in that area. This is a message that, more than anything we have recently addressed, intervenes in all parts of the public sector, with a purchase and acquisition level of 500 billion. kr per year, and where all aspects of the public activity actually participate in this activity and will be affected by the legislation we are discussing here. There is also a broad consensus that it is a good regulation, but that where it is perhaps weakest, it is in the contract follow-up from the contracting entity. Many of the actions put in place and proposed are actions that are just about to provide more knowledge, insight, traceability and up-to-date information, thereby facilitating this follow-up. Once again, I would like to thank you for your cooperation. With a background as a buyer, it is also worth noting that there is a long way from the EU in 1994 to update this legislation, which triggered a revolution in the area of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e1531	First of all, it is important to establish that the public sector is characterised by consistently high quality of its purchases. It provides an effective use of society's resources and a good management of the community's values. It is therefore essential for the state and local authorities to further develop an employer policy that contributes to a highly professional purchasing environment. Control and follow-up of contracts concluded must be given priority, not least in the construction sector. The Labour Party believes that the main contractor must be given a much clearer responsibility for the compliance of any subcontractors with contract conditions. Infringements of contract conditions must have greater legal consequences, such as: they are excluded from future tenders. Today's regulation is not adapted to reality. The consequences of today’s breach of contract conditions are too small. It gives a great deal of room for unprofessional actors. The Labour Party considers that the government is not clear enough in terms of measures to combat the crime of working life. It is necessary to require state actors to use control systems on a real-time basis, such as HMS cards, to strengthen control. Trustees must be given transparency in the purchase of services in order to detect critical conditions as quickly as possible, and serious requirements similar to the Oslo model in public procurement should be imposed. It is important to strike a good balance between the need for simplification and the key societal challenges. Professionally strong purchasing environments with good market competence and a high degree of flexibility are essential for better and more efficient tendering processes. At the hearing, different views were expressed on the current threshold. The NHO and LO believe that the termination in 2017 has made access to contracts more difficult and that important parts of the legislation are not being followed. KS, on the other hand, argued that lower thresholds would contribute to increased legalisation, increased risk of disputes, more bureaucracy and reduced scope for action to invite local companies to participate in the competition. It is therefore positive that a unanimous committee recommends an evaluation of current thresholds before any change. The public must make greater use of the possibility of assessing the size of contracts, in order to give small and medium-sized enterprises a real opportunity to participate in competitive tendering procedures and to compete directly over being subject to a main contractor. Nor has it been given that the centralisation of procurement gives increased negotiating power and better services. Governments can use their purchasing power to a far greater extent than at present to develop new solutions and to contribute to new business activity. In addition to the Supplier Development Programme, the Acquisition Academy and various public actions, the Workers' Party believes that new models should be developed in which the public and private share of the risks of innovative acquisitions. We think in particular of large investments such as the development of modern ships with a low climate footprint. The size requirement for a minimum of 30 pst. environmental weights in public tenders must be better followed up in regulations. Better tools for weighting climate and environment in tendering processes should be developed in cooperation with industry environments. Norway should also contribute to the development of common European indicators on green public procurement. I'm dealing with the proposals The Labour Party is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e1550	The representative Ruth Grung has drawn up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e1555	This is an important message, and I am pleased – as the case-speaker also said – that there is a lot of consensus in the committee. Public procurement can be used to influence societal developments. But I want to warn you that one should solve all public procurement problems. If you put all the good wishes into the pot, you might forget what's the basic, easy goal of getting a good or a service. A system that is not viable for small buyers or is not viable for small vendors can be provided. Simplification is important, and one must also consider that price should be a central factor. I also mean it's important that the threshold values are fixed. There is disagreement between LO and NHO on one side and KS on the other. Here the Center Party believes that KS has very good arguments. I also want to warn you that the bigger the better. It will contribute to the centralisation of procurement. There is no Central Party option. But what the Center Party wants is to make small buyers safe on a code that – despite all the promises of simplification – is not very simple, and that one has an easily accessible ability to acquire knowledge and get answers to questions. The Centre Party is also aware that one should be able to use life-cycle assessments in procurement policy. It will appreciate the quality, it will appreciate the seriousness – and indirectly the compassion of Norwegian suppliers. We also need to use public procurement policy to ensure that it is not a disadvantage to operate seriously; it should be an advantage to operate seriously. So I'd like to add some comments to the suggestions from SV. We perceive this as a message about how to carry out a purchase. SV has attached a shopping list of what they want to buy. We would like to come back to these proposals in other contexts, but that one today would vote for a proposal that only one should buy concrete where one has carbon capture and storage, I think it would be a very demanding proposal, which has great consequences for suppliers around the country. So we support the suggestions that we're behind ourselves, and I guess all of them are already recorded.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e1574	To the Center Party: Yesterday, Stortinget rejected a proposal from the Center Party that one should follow the dietary councils in all public procurements, among others. linked to sugar drinks. So it's not like it's just in the Center Party one is superior, that some areas are more important than others, etc. That's not exactly right. The last time we had a round of public procurement in Stortinget, it was also a very limited treatment, it was adjustments, and then the opposition got critical because one suggested major changes. Then it was also announced that the next time you had a round of public purchases, it would be a bigger round. And what we're talking about here today is just a round of professional purchasing questions – a very narrow version. It seems that the government has a great deal of anxiety about actually going into the law of public procurement and adapting it to the time we live in. As the case spokesperson had in mind, there are many objectives that there is a broad consensus that one should realise through public procurement. One will solve our challenges, whether it is the purchase of goods and services for the municipalities or social conditions, i.e. seriousness, climate, environment, etc. We think this is an opportunity to make public purchases into an engine to make big changes. We have concentrated on the climate challenge that Norway is facing today, which everyone must realize that we are not doing the job. So, the government makes sure that extra emissions in a world where we're going to bring them down; so, where the neighboring countries have knocked down emissions, this government is able to increase them. And, among others, One of the main concepts we're doing is to demand that instead of today's 30 pst. the weighting of purchases — where there are very strong limitations, that it can be followed, etc. – in the first round we want to kneel 30 pst., that it should follow, and then increase it to 50 pst. What happens then? Well, one makes public purchases to a machine for the conversion that we know we need to implement. Instead of public purchasing technologies and solutions that do not tolerate time, the public will systematically begin to do so. And this also demands business itself. On direct questions, businesses and organisations say that by increasing environmental, quality and seriousness emphasis, several of the missions will end up in Norway. So here we have clear messages from both the Norwegian industry and the NHO that they want a much tighter regulation. But the government ignores this from purely price considerations. Then we've put in a series of other suggestions that we'll come back to next round, which goes much more specifically to work, but not as specific as sugar drinks, as the Center Party suggested yesterday. I'm taking up our suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e1594	Then the representative Torgeir Knag County has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e1599	Since I need to get into the business area of the nutrition committee in this matter, as a compensation, if that's the right word, I'm going to tell a story from my own field of expertise, namely health and care – that's a very important purchasing field that involves my own municipality and in and of itself also the Council of State. It says something about how complex it can be to find innovative solutions in the field of public acquisitions. It all started with the municipality of Larvik in 2016, which through the welfare technology programme was asked to lead a project for medication support. In reality, there is talk of acquiring pill dispensers and multidose dispensers, i.e. welfare technology that ensures that users can live longer at home and in principle are not dependent on home nurses to get their daily medicine. Larvik, with a population of approx. 48,000 people, for example, need about 48,000 people. 100 to 120 such dispensers. In the health sector of the future, such projects will be crucial. The project included 29 municipalities from all over the country. Most – like Skien, Porsgrund and Fäder – were in the area around Telemark and Vestfold, but Trondheim was also in the area. It would be thought that this was a simple purchasing cooperation, but experience from this cooperation shows a great need for innovation, dialogue, regulatory regulation and a host of one-to-one meetings, dialogue conferences and bureaucratic obstacles that had to be exceeded. For example, the project stopped at a time when the law on the responsibility for the distribution of medicines, transport and user consent provided almost unsurpassable obstacles. The project has just finished after three years of work. The report is dated April 2019. This is, of course, too long. But the report is impressive reading and creates enormously important experience skills for other municipalities that will follow. One of the lessons learned is that it is not only public that is struggling with its routines and collaborative cultures, but also that suppliers have some way to go in terms of professionalism, in relation to the public sector. Many of these had e.g. the habit of signing documents without regard to what they actually committed themselves to, it is said. They simply had to learn to understand what they were up to. In addition, the health sector in general represents a specific challenge for coordination between primary and specialist health services. The Larvik project can illustrate this general problem in Health-Norway. Of course, even the specialist health service, not only prescribers, regulates medicine. Getting these groups to talk to a common drug robot turns out to be particularly difficult. It is hoped that the new health and health plan under preparation will contribute to the development of such coordination, and I am sure that the Ministry of Health and Health will address such issues in the preparation of the new plan. So what can we learn from this? Indeed, it is a trick to walk in the footsteps of others, the importance of legal work, and the need for coordination and coordination. The experience with e.g. the acquisition of the antidiabetic medicine Freestyle Libre is a daunting image of how difficult it can be. So I would say that such cooperation requires just that. There is no single municipality that is as small as for example. Larvik, who can take on such a project alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e1616	Overall, public procurement amounts to more than 500 billion. kr per year. This means that the public sector, with its many different units at different levels, is the largest customer in Norway. Therefore, it is important how the public uses its significant purchasing power. The Christian People’s Party supports the assessment in the Communication on the need to strengthen the competence of the procurement function and the importance of designing tenders in such a way as to support the well-functioning markets, where both small and large operators are given real opportunities to participate in public procurement. However, when government makes its acquisitions, it is not just about getting the businesses they need for goods and services. Purchases shall take account of a number of important societal considerations beyond that. The notification indicates that procurement is to take place within the framework of procurement law in a cost-effective way that ensures the development of functioning markets with serious suppliers and also contributes to innovation and innovation. Considerations of environmental and climate challenges, the fight against crime at work and the recruitment of apprentices are also important issues to be addressed through public procurement. At the same time, control procedures shall be in place to ensure control of the performance and delivery of contracts and to prevent corruption. The Christian People's Party is concerned that the public is at the forefront with a special responsibility to ensure orderly and serious conditions in Norwegian working life and to combat labour-life crime. The Christian People's Party believes it is good that the government proposes to strengthen cooperation between contracting entities and control and supervisory authorities and to further develop a guide to the regulations on pay and working conditions. We are also pleased that the government will develop a guide for those who want to apply stricter standards against unprofessionalism and criminality than those provided for in the procurement regulation. It is statutory for public authorities to set up their procurement practices to help reduce environmental impacts and promote climate-friendly solutions, where appropriate. That is good, but in view of the enormous challenge we face in cutting greenhouse gas emissions, public procurement should be even more powerful than today for climate-friendly technology development and new sustainable solutions. It's added up to continue 30 pst. environmental weights for public procurement where applicable, or to use concrete environmental and emission requirements where appropriate. It supports the Christian People's Party. The objective shall be to use public acquisitions and legislation to stimulate demand for products produced by low-carbon technologies. It may be the most important instrument, together with the use of tax systems that the State has to promote new, sustainable technologies.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e1633	We have received a lot of good input from various actors in the work on this message, and it has been very important and necessary. I also think there are many good and constructive input from the nutrition committee. A new and simplified procurement legislation entered into force in 2017. Of course, good regulation is not just enough to ensure good, effective acquisitions. In the Communication, the Government therefore proposes a number of measures to contribute to good procurement practices in the framework of the new legislation. The funds used in acquisitions are Community funds. These shall make optimum use of the contracting entities and require increased professionalisation. At the same time, the government has many goals we want to achieve through acquisitions. As you know, the public spends about 500 billion each year. NOK to purchase. It's a great potential to spend this money in a better way. There are many billions to come up with a better procurement policy. We also need to ensure that they are used in the best possible way, so that citizens get a better quality and would like a better price than today. At the same time, procurement shall also contribute to the desired social development in areas such as climate and environment and the fight against crime at work. The government has announced that we will draw up a separate action plan to increase the share of climate-friendly and environmentally friendly public acquisitions and green innovation. Public procurement is also an important tool in the government’s strategy against crime at work. In addition, society is constantly changing. It requires transformation into the public sector. We have to think smarter and be more innovative. Acquisitions shall facilitate the provision of innovation-friendly solutions and contribute to the increased dissemination of newly developed solutions. The use of competition is an essential instrument for achieving the objective of efficient resource use. That is why it is also important that we ensure good competition in public contracts. Making good acquisitions that meet all these expectations is – to put it mildly – demanding. The key is good, professional sponsors. The public sector is not a single group, but consists of several thousand contracting entities with very different assumptions for making good purchases. The message discusses how we – among others. through increased competence, better governance, organisation and management, and more coordination — will contribute to building more robust purchasing environments, with sufficient resources and skills to carry out good procurement. That's how we can achieve the goals we've set ourselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e1653	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e1658	It is particularly demanding in the construction industry to follow up the contract conditions. There are a lot of disputes, and there's a lot of resources going on from the public to follow up. Does the Council of State consider that today's legislation is appropriate and adequate in view of the challenges today, or should it be ensured that the main contractor is given greater responsibility for any subcontracting to follow up the contract conditions? What about the HMS card?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e1663	From a purchasing point of view, on which we base ourselves in this communication, I believe that today's legislation is generally good enough. That is also why we are concerned that it is the practice of legislation that is crucial, and that is what we need to put the most force in now. This does not mean that there is no room for improvement or that in no year’s time there may be no need for regulatory review, but it is the current date assessment that is also reflected in the notification. I am also very positive about municipalities that want to do more thorough and extensive work or have stricter standards. It's also completely possible. There are many municipalities and counties that have it. But it's not automatically given that it's a good idea to make it a national standard. There may also be weaknesses in the type of local schemes, including: that even serious, common enterprises are struggling to enter if the legislation becomes too strict.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e1670	The state roadway service is perhaps the major player who wears the most in this area. The proposal on the Academy of Acquisitions was in time promoted by the Right, as a measure to increase competence in this area. Everyone sees that acquisitions are becoming more complex — there are different purposes to be cared for and followed up. What are the plans of the Council of State to ensure that we develop the competences that are multidisciplinaryly desired in the Academy of Acquisitions?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e1677	The government is in favour of the Acquisition Academy, and we're going to continue to have a good dialogue with the actors to help further develop it. I wonder if the representative Grung is trying to cover the issue of financial support for the Acquisition Academy. At that time it is worth mentioning that it is a normal educational course, and it is usually not financed by the State budget. So there's no immediate plans about it, as I see it, but as I said, I'm open for further dialogue and discussion with the actors about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e1682	In December 2016, when we discussed this last, Stortinget decided that one should have an environmental weight in all public purchases of 30 p.m. This was followed up by the government by the fact that one of the regulations on public procurement § 7-9, Minimizing environmental impact, has the following sentence: ‘Where the environment is used as an award criterion, a minimum 30 % weighting should normally be applied.’ I believe that there is a follow-up to the Storting's clear decision that the environment should be weighted at least 30 pst. by public procurement?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e1692	I mean, when you look at the whole change that was made, and you take with you all the sentences, including those that are in front, that's it. Let me read the first sentence. It says: ‘The contracting entity shall focus on minimising the environmental impact and promoting climate-friendly solutions in its acquisitions and may set environmental requirements and criteria at all stages of the procurement process where relevant and related to the delivery.’;» Then comes the sentence that the representative Knag Fylkesnes reads. I believe that this is a good follow-up to Stortinget's 2016 decision. The other important thing is that environmental weighting is just one way of getting climate-friendly purchases. Let me give you an example: if a municipality is going to have new cars for its home service, and you really just want electric cars, it's much smarter to put it in as a criterion, i.e. an absolute criterion, than to have an environmental weight, which makes everyone who wants to sell hybrid cars or a little bit more environmentally friendly petrol cars also submit tenders.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e1704	I'm completely in agreement lately, that there's other ways to do it than environmental weight. But the question was about environmental weight, which is a very important part of it. If you read the beginning of the paragraph, it says: ‘The contracting entity shall focus on minimising the environmental impact and promoting climate-friendly solutions in its acquisitions and may set environmental requirements and criteria at all stages of the procurement process where relevant and related to the delivery.’;» One can set environmental requirements. In addition, it says: ‘Where the environment is used as an award criterion’ – here has an already abandoned requirement to be imposed on all purchases – ‘as a general rule, a minimum 30 per cent should be weighted’. In the listening round, in the hearing replies, in the letters, etc. from the operators in the business community themselves, it was found that this is too weak. This means that an unweighting tool can erase it. What is the response from the Council of State to that?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e1726	The first response is simply to stress that I do not agree with the interpretation of the regulation by the representative of Knag Fylkesnes, and I think it is quite clear that: ‘The contracting entity shall focus on minimising the environmental impact and promoting climate-friendly solutions in its acquisitions: [[...]] That is an absolute requirement. This applies to everyone. Then there is the question of which instruments, in which case it is emphasised that ‘environmental requirements and criteria can be set at all stages of the procurement process where relevant’. So this comes in the 30 pst environment requirement. I believe that this satisfies it in a good way. The review tone of this message is that the problem is not really the legislation. We may be going to a place in five or ten years' time where we are going to tighten up the legislation further, but the problem today is that the legislation is not being followed up enough. It is simply too many municipalities that because of lack of order skills, or that they do not use or know the tools that are there, do not make innovative or climate-friendly purchases.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e1741	I totally agree with that with competence, it's very important, and there we are some in the setting as well. That's absolutely right. But business itself says that as the regulation is formulated, it leads to a depriving environment, because it is not tight enough. In proposal No 11, from the Workers' Party and SV, we suggest getting a real weight of 30 pst. SV proposes to increase it further in order to convert the Norwegian economy. In the hearing of the Committee, Norwegian Industry replied to direct questions that if the environment, quality and seriousness were to be given more weight, Norwegian industry would be in a positive position, for Norwegian business is much better positioned in relation to these criteria. This will result in a use of Mo i Rana steel or concrete from the state from which the state council comes. What, then, does the Council of State say about the criticism that a law on public procurement places too high a price on Norwegian business and the environment too low?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e1750	As I have written in this big message – I don't remember how many pages – I fully agree that we need to get more people to buy and use the tools that are there, and set environmental requirements and climate requirements. I also believe that this is very closely related to innovative acquisitions and the use of e.g. innovation contracts and grants to develop services or products with a supplier. There's a good way to do it. An assessment must be made, there are different things that need to be weighed against each other, which have emerged in the discussion here as well. What I'm afraid, is that if you had made an absolute claim that no matter what you buy, no matter where it is in the country, no matter what instance, you have to weigh the environmental requirement 50 pst. To be honest, it's not certain that it's good for environmental accounting either, all in all, that you do it that way, because we're also concerned that we're going to spend the money on the good environmental solutions with the greatest effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e1758	Replicate cord shift complete. The following speakers also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e1765	As we have heard, public authorities have enormous power to create markets for environmentally friendly solutions through the purchases made. We can help create markets that are not profitable today, but that become profitable, by imposing strict environmental requirements. An example of this is the requirements of the Stortinget for new ferry offers on 1 December 2015. Then a majority in Stortinget, consisting of the governing parties and SV of today, adopted the following: ‘The Government is asking for measures to be taken to ensure that all county and local ferries and fast boats use low or zero-emission technologies for new offers and for self-reliance routes.’ The result is that today there are more than 70 electric ferries on the way in to operate Norwegian ferry services. About half of these ferries are equipped in Norway. It has provided high-skilled jobs, and we have benefited greatly from these jobs also in other sectors, when we are now electrifying society and cutting greenhouse gas emissions. This Decision of December 2015 has made Norway a leading country in the electrical ferry business. Earlier this year, I visited Rolls Royce's electric aircraft development laboratory. It lies, as much other good in this country, of course in Trondheim. Rolls Royce says they can have the first electric passenger aircraft in the air around 2025. That is why several players from the aviation industry and travel recently went out in the media and asked that we politicians facilitate an electric aircraft bet. Andreas Kollbye Aks, Head of the Unirøe Zero Emission Project, said to Dagbladet on 25 May: ‘Through the tendering process, the Ministry of Transport has a unique opportunity to facilitate investment in zero-emission technologies, for example by gradually introducing zero-emission requirements on individual routes and by allocating routes for longer tendering periods.’ There is just this SV suggested today. We propose that when technology is in place, low- or zero-emission aeroplanes be required to be used on the short-range network in Norway. That's how we can help create an elf revolution in the air. We can cut emissions, we can contribute to technology development, and we can create jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e1782	I actually asked for the floor for an explanation of vote, but would like to start with a comment on the previous speaker. I was a regional politician when I worked out Amperes. What is important is that you have to have the technology available before you can demand it in a tender, as it was then. Making good processes, using development contracts to produce new technologies is crucial in the process. It was just a short comment. With regard to the proposals promoted by the Red Party, the Workers' Party will support the proposals No. 19 and 21 – not proposals Nos. 18 and 20. As regards proposal No: 20, in our proposals, we set serious demands at the level of what the Oslo model adds. It also involves ensuring pay and employment in line with the collective bargaining agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e1789	I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for a good debate so far. We'll see – there'll be some extra data after this – but I expect them to follow in the same footsteps. I would like briefly to say that we are not going to support any of the proposals that have been made. I could comment on them in detail, but I leave it to not draw the time out today. I just want to comment that some of the proposals are very specific. In particular, one of the proposals is so specific that it concerns one company in Norway, Norcem, and one project that is currently at the concept stage. If that proposal had been adopted, we would not have been able to build anything with cement before carbon capture and storage might have been completed, and then we could only buy from one company worldwide. It might be a little bit specific, I'd say, to go into it right here and now. At the same time, I would say that in many of the proposals that lie there, there are good intentions that in other contexts we can well imagine being with and following up, among other things. ensuring low emissions in aviation, low emissions from cement production or construction activity, or being involved in carbon capture and storage projects, which we will have the full opportunity to come back to in other matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e1798	I would like to say a little about our suggestions in the matter. One is about pension requirements. One may be in favour of or against the launching of public tasks to commercial operators – such as hospitals, kindergartens, care for the elderly – but when this happens, all parties in the Grand Duchy should agree that it should be on equal terms, fair competition, where the aim should not be a policy that destroys the pension of hard-working and often low-paid workers in health, care, kindergartens. But this is what's happening. That's the direct consequence of the right-hand privatisation policy we dealt with in the Storting just a short time ago, when we saw it in the Defence. The effect is that the pension of employees is severely weakened. It's up to 1 million. kr in total pension losses for several of the cleaners, who have been in charge of the community of low wages for decades. That's the thank you from the right-hand side – a broken pension. If we are to take the citizen's talk of competition seriously, citizens should also be interested in competition on fair and equal terms, for the winner of the tender, do so when you have better ideas and new solutions, and do not aim at dumping the salary and pension of employees. Demanding that the pension be maintained at the same level as in the public sector is a way of ensuring fair competition – which is not about social dumping but is about what is claimed to be the purpose of public service tenders. Our other proposals are about the Middle East conflict – whether we should use the public to pursue a policy in line with international law and in line with declarations and UN resolutions supported by Norway. This has been assessed by the Ministry in the past. It is fully legal, and we believe it is also right for Norway and the Storting to adopt proposals to end the campaign to boycott goods produced in occupied Palestinian territories in violation of international law. It's putting pressure on the occupier in the conflict, using public purchasing power to promote a United Nations-led world order and, not least, to work for respect for international law. It should also be uncontroversial for Stortinget to agree. I hope that we will receive broad support both for the proposal for fair competition without social dumping on pensions and for the proposals on occupied areas in Palestine.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e1807	Would the representative like to comment on the proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e1812	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e1817	The representative Bears Moxnes has drawn up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e1822	This is an incredibly important big business message. In the public sector in Norway, there is an ongoing development of purchasing cooperation and an example of this is that all hospitals in Norway now have one electricity supplier. Similarly, in the municipalities one has entered into purchasing cooperation, but to date there has been a lot of focus on price. As we develop standards for climate and the environment, and that it becomes important, the competence part of this is also important. Fortunately, in the Committee on Energy and the Environment, we see that there are actors who come to us and will have increasingly tougher standards related to climate and environment, i.e. close to zero in emissions, also because it is seen to provide competitiveness and export opportunities. This is for full speed on the way into green shipping, for which a further strategy is soon to be presented. For the public sector, taking the full step in the construction sector is now a major challenge. We build a lot in public, and we need more emission-free construction sites. Therefore, it is important that the competence is now built in the public sector so that it can be ordered correctly. In recent days, there has been a debate on the drinking water situation in Ashkoy, and it is also important that the water and sewerage sector – also as an example – comes in and drives technology solutions that are more and more climate-neutral, emission-free and more and more based on biological purification processes and not so much on chemical, for example. by importing large quantities of phosphorus. This is also a type of innovation in the public sector: that all sectors are actually involved and that no one is left in the ditch. The representative Lars Haltbrecken draws up the proposals from SV related to electric aircraft. Technology must be mature in order for one to be able to make demands – that is one. There's also an actor picture here. When the short-range network goes to the new counties, there is also a situation in which one should not be faced with rigid and strict requirements from the Stortinget per day – this is also, of course, a big picture message. So the airlines are private, so here is also a cooperation between the public and private very important. It is also important that we now experiment with electric aircraft in the short-haul network in Norway, that we now focus on the infrastructure around the airports, and that all actors involved in it – not just Avinor – deliver enough electricity to those airports.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e1835	I think it's quite striking that the government doesn't take the opportunities that come to it to actually change the way we work in Norway, both to create new jobs and new businesses, and at the same time to solve the biggest challenge of our time, which is the climate challenge. This message is a good example of it. One is not willing to adjust to the emphasis on environmental impact, which everyone, both industry, organisations and the environment, wants one to do, to say “shell”, not “can”, “should”, “should”, “principle”, etc., which is today’s formulation and which weakens both environmental and Norwegian enterprises. One is not willing to take the small step there once. One does not consider this to be a possibility to build a machine for changing the Norwegian society. Then I will refer to an article in E24 no, where there is an interview with Karoline Nystrøm, who is the director of Schneider Electric Norway, one of the world's largest companies in energy efficiency improvement. She says: ‘Some Norwegian leaders lose many opportunities because they view social responsibility and sustainability as costs’. Then we're probably at the core of this, that the narrow cost perspective makes it a good idea to ignore what an estimate would be cost-effective by investing in the environment. By doing that, a customer buys services and solutions that don't pay off in the future, when we need a low-carbon society. One buys into the past, not into the future. It's a big problem, and here's one of the possibilities to actually do something about it, but just once again let it scorch and go. We see what's going on: emissions in Norway are increasing at a time when they should actually go down. It's a very sad sight. So some explanations of vote for the proposals for Red: SV is going to support all of these here. Proposal No. 18 is about ensuring that public sector actors have a collective agreement. In the setting, the opposition suggests following the Oslo model. In the Oslo model, there is no requirement to have a collective agreement, but where there is no collective agreement, a follow-up collective agreement. So this is a tightening of it, which SV also supports, and the same thing when it comes to demanding a pension at the same level as the public on outsourcing. Then we wholeheartedly support the purchase of Israeli goods produced in occupied territory. It should be a matter of course for a country that sees it as a task to strengthen the multi-national solutions we have in the world, i.e. a United Nations leadership value where we have rules of play for how to proceed, so that this is not just a value where there are the strongest ones that come forward as they please.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e1853	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e1866	The size is then ready to go to voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e1875	In the course of the debate, a total of two proposals have been put forward by Mr Moxnes on behalf of Mr Red. Proposal No. 1, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size of the Presidency is requested to amend the guidelines for the Great Britain commuter housing in such a way that the residence is not made available free of charge to representatives who own more than one dwelling from before, without a documented specific need.’;» The Socialist Left has already given its support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e1894	President! I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e1899	President! I also voted incorrectly.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e1904	Then we take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e1916	Proposal No. 2 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size of the Presidency is requested to amend the rules of the Grand Duchy commuting housing so that representatives are not provided with accommodation without a documented specific need if they are already in possession of other dwellings less than 40 km of driving distance from the Stortinget.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have already supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e1986	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e1997	The law decision will be set up for second time treatment in a later Storting meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e2006	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Ingrid Heggø on behalf of the Labour Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party proposed no. 2 and 3, from Ingrid Heggø on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No 4, from Sigbjørn Gælsvik on behalf of the Center Party and Red proposed no. 5 and 6, by Sigbjørn Gælsvik on behalf of the Centre Party Proposal No. 5 and 6 from the Center Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to set up a working group to assess how to clarify the legislation on the possible consequences of an action by the Ministry of Finance against a tax appeal subject under Section 15-2 of the Tax Administration Act for taxpayers and where the solution does not have to go beyond the taxpayer’s legal security’. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government itself, or a working group that has been set down, to assess whether the legal security of taxpayers is weakened by the tax administration Act § 15-2, first paragraph, and whether it is reasonable for taxpayers to use their money to facilitate the State to sue a State-funded body through this provision or whether those funds should be removed’.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e2043	Proposal No. Four, from the Center Party and Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘I In Law 21 December 2007 No 199 on customs duties and on imports of goods are amended as follows: [[Customs Act]] Paragraphs 5 to 9 are deleted. II In Law 19 June No. 58 on value added tax is amended as follows: [[VAT Act]] The first sentence of the first paragraph of Section 7-2 shall be replaced by the following: VAT shall not be calculated when the goods referred to in the first subparagraph of Section 5-1 of the Customs Act, § 5-2, first subparagraph, points (b) and (c), § 5-3, § 5-4, first subparagraph, points (a), (c), (d), (f) and (g), § 5-5, § 5-6 and point (e) of the first paragraph of Section 5-7 are imported. [[1]] III The amendments in I and II shall enter into force on 1 August 2019».
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e2074	Proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘I In Law 19 June 2009 No. 58 on value added tax is amended as follows: Paragraphs 3 to 3 are deleted. II The amendments in I shall enter into force on 1 September 2019».
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e2097	Proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘I In Law 21 December 2007 No 199 on customs duties and on imports of goods are amended as follows: [[Customs Act]] Paragraphs 5 to 9 are deleted. II In Law 19 June No. 58 on value added tax is amended as follows: [[VAT Act]] The first sentence of the first paragraph of Section 7-2 shall be replaced by the following: VAT shall not be calculated when the goods referred to in the first subparagraph of Section 5-1 of the Customs Act, § 5-2, first subparagraph, points (b) and (c), § 5-3, § 5-4, first subparagraph, points (a), (c), (d), (f) and (g), § 5-5, § 5-6 and point (e) of the first paragraph of Section 5-7 are imported. [[1]] III The amendments in I and II shall enter into force on 1 September 2019». Red has already received subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e2130	Proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Center Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to propose a non-discriminatory VAT exemption scheme for all news and news media in the state budget 2020’. The Greens have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e2633	It is first contested by E I § 12-1, third paragraph, point (a). The centre party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e2647	And then the rest of E, and A, B, C, D, F and G.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e2657	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e2668	The law decision will be set up for second time treatment in a later Storting meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e2677	A total of two proposals have been put forward during the debate, from Svein Roald Hansen on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Environment Party of Dei Green and Red. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a legislative proposal to ensure that enterprises resident in the rest of the world have to pay VAT from the first kroner traded in Norway.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to intensify checks on foreign coaches, including to ensure that the companies that own the buses are registered for VAT purposes.’ These proposals and the recommendations of the Committee shall be replaced by an alternative vote. The Committee had recommended that the Storting should do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e2712	A total of four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1-3, by Sigbjørn Gælsvik, on behalf of the Party of the Centre, the Left Party and the Red Party proposal No 4, from Sigbjørn Gælsvik on behalf of the Center Party Proposal No. Four, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to take the necessary steps, without waiting for the EEA inclusion of CRR and CRD IV, so that the SME discount in the capital adequacy requirements can be introduced, and so that the Basel I floor, which was meant to be a transitional rule in the capital adequacy code, can be removed as soon as possible and preferably immediately.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e2736	Proposal No. 1-3 from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to the Grand Duchy with an assessment from the Department of Justice and Defence of whether MiFIR involves a waiver of sovereignty to the EU or ESA that is more than ‘a minor intervention’.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to return to Stortinget with a proposal with the necessary legislative changes that follow any EEA inclusion of the CRR and CRD IV Code.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back to the Storting with a new proposition for the consent to the inclusion of legislation MiFIR, CRR, CRD IV and MiFID II in the EEA Agreement, where a thorough dietary/benefit analysis of such inclusion based on Norwegian interests has been undertaken for Norwegian sovereignty and action spaces in the short and long term by the inclusion of each of the legislations and by the legislations collected and granted EEA adaptations guaranteeing Norwegian sovereignty.’ [[1]] [[2]] [[3]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e2770	The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e2793	The center party and Red have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e2825	A total of 16 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Ingrid Heggø on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green and Red Environmental Party proposed no. 2-4, by Sigbjørn Gülsvik on behalf of the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green and Red Environmental Party proposal No 12, from Sigbjørn Gælsvik on behalf of the Centre Party proposed no. 5-11, from Solvency Skagvoll Foss on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, the Green and Red Party proposed no. 13–15, from Une Bastholm on behalf of the Green and Red Party proposal No 16, from Une Bastholm on behalf of the Environment Party Dei Green Proposal No. 16, from the Environmental Party of the Greens. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government of the State budget for 2020 is asked to propose the introduction of a new environmental tax on clothing, shoes, tools, sports and tour equipment and other high environmental impact consumables suitable for sharing and renting.’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e2861	Proposal No. 13–15, from the Green and Red Environmental Party. Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to eliminate VAT entirely on the reuse and repair of consumer electronics, white and brown goods, furniture, clothing and shoes and on parts needed for the repair.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The Government of the State budget for 2020 requests that funds be set aside for municipalities for setting up sharing schemes for tools, sports and tour equipment and other products suitable for sharing.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a big message that follows the advice of the UN International Panel on Nature on how to remove the link between a good, meaningful life and ever-increasing material consumption that destroys nature and the environment and threatens the well-being of humanity.’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e2888	Proposal No. 5-11, from the Socialist Left Party, the Green and Red Environmental Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to draw up a plan on how Norway can best achieve resource efficiency in the OECD by 2030, with the overall objective of reducing the material footprint to eight tonnes per person by 2050, while maintaining and improving the quality of life. The plan shall include a programme of measures which is reviewed every three years.’;» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to determine how a fee differentiated according to the material footprint of different goods and services can be arranged and implemented.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose the introduction of a right to repair and to work for this right to apply to all goods imported into Norway and to impose requirements for the recovery of products.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a proposal to reintroduce a ban on the granting of a licence in marketing, so that, for example, it will not be possible to offer customers a free bicycle if they buy a washing machine or a new flat screen.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a big message on Urban Mining, which identifies the potential for increased recycling of metals in Norway and proposes measures to recover non-use minerals and metals.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate and propose changes to natural resource legislation in order to ensure that it takes account of environmental considerations and requirements for sustainable resource management.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate and propose a mechanism in which goods and services are to be declared as goods and services that quantify greenhouse gas emissions and resource consumption in order to enable consumers to make environmentally friendly choices.’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e2936	Proposal No. 12 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking whether it is possible to require that products imported into Norway be repaired or recovered and to propose how such a requirement can be enforced.’ Red has already received subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e2953	Proposal No. 2-4, from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to replace the current packaging charge with a differentiated material charge that premises the use of renewable and recycled materials.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to propose a basis for a municipal resource tax on mineral extraction.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to prohibit products with built-in intended obsolescence, in order to make it impossible to deliberately incorporate mechanisms and characteristics into products and goods which reduce their life cycle.’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e2981	Proposal No. 1, from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a sample to propose how to reduce material consumption, within a distribution and social profile, in which, inter alia, charges, the establishment of several lending schemes for consumer products suitable for lending, the strengthening of the Consumer Purchases Act, and re-use and recycling systems are seen in the context and contribute to lower consumption.’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e3003	The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e3159	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e3169	The law decision will be set up for second time treatment in a later Storting meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e3179	A total of two proposals have been put forward by Fredric Holen Bjørdal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for compensation for families who have been cut off in the spring of 2019 because the government has not corrected the grading rules. The compensation must be assessed for each recipient and measured on the basis of the new grading rules’. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to review the functioning of the graduation rules and to come back to the Storting on this matter by 1 February 2020’. The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e3260	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e3271	The law decision will be set up for second time treatment in a later Storting meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e3280	A total of three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1 and 2, by Marit Knutsdatter Strand on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 3, from Kari-Anne Opsal on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked by the government in the forthcoming keynote on the cultural school to promote concrete measures to strengthen the cultural school as a school team, for example by laying down a national framework plan, and to assess whether the introduction of a maximum price can be an appropriate measure to ensure increased participation and accessibility for all children.’ The Greens have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e3306	Proposal No. 1 and 2, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the promotion of a high-quality, high-quality, high-quality, high-quality, high-quality, high-quality, high-level education-based education-based education-based education-based education-based education-based education-based education-based education-based education-based education-based education-based education-based education-based education-based education-based education-based education-based education-based education-based services’. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government in the forthcoming keynote on the School of Culture to make proposals on how to strengthen and further develop the provision of cultural schools and to propose concrete measures to: ensure increased participation and accessibility for all children, for example by introducing free cultural school hours; ensure good framework conditions, for example by establishing a predictable financing mechanism and by introducing searchable incentives; strengthen the practical and aesthetic disciplines of the school through enhanced and systematic cooperation between primary and cultural education, for example by facilitating more combined positions and by introducing requirements of competence for practical and aesthetic education; increase cooperation with volunteering, for example by setting up municipal cultural forums with representatives from kindergarten, initial training, the cultural school and volunteering.’;» The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e3350	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e3366	A total of 21 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1-7, from Ruth Grung on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposed no. 8 and 9, from Ruth Grung on behalf of the Labour Party and the Centre Party proposed no. 10-12, from Ruth Grung on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party proposed no. 13–17, from Torgeir Knag County on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposed no. 18-21, from the Bears Moxnes on behalf of Red Proposal No. 18, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that operators entrusted with the public tariff agreement’.» The Socialist Left has already given its support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e3401	Proposal No. 20, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the public refrains from buying Israeli goods produced in occupied Palestinian territories in violation of international law.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have already supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e3418	Proposal No. 19 and 21, from Red. Proposal No. 19 reads: «The government is asked to ensure that public service offers require a pension of the same level as in the public service.» Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to draw up a system for the labelling of Israeli goods produced on occupied land in violation of international law.’ The Labour Party and the Socialist Left have already supported the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e3442	Proposal No. 13–16, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 13 sounds: «The government is asked to propose amendments to the Public Acquisitions Act to give the environmental protection requirement a weighting of 50 pst.» Proposal No. 14 sounds: «The government is asking for public acquisitions for the use of concrete with such low emissions as to require the use of carbon capture and storage.» Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asking for public acquisitions of fossil-free construction sites where possible to use zero-emission technology in construction projects.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government requests the design of public acquisition requirements that contribute to increased public demand for hydrogen in the purchases where applicable.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e3476	Proposal No. 17, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking for measures to be taken to ensure that tenders for the use of low and zero emission technologies on the short-range network are subject to requirements when the technology is in place.’;» The Labour Party, the Greens and Reds have already supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e3494	Proposal No. 10-12, from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking for an evaluation of current thresholds for acquisitions with a special emphasis on socio-economic consequences such as the prevention of labour crime, the environment, apprentice intake, resource use and opportunities for small and medium-sized enterprises to participate in tendering procedures.’;» Proposal No. 11 sounds: «The government is asked to amend the regulation on public acquisitions so that it becomes a real requirement of 30 pst. environmental weights for all public tenders where relevant, and not just any contracting entity, in line with the previous Storting decision of December 2016.’» Proposal No. 12 sounds: «The government is asked to produce better statistics on climate and environmental impact in public acquisitions.» The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e3523	Proposal No. 8 and 9, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to carry out an evaluation of the proper functioning of legal and regulatory requirements for emphasising the environment in public procurement, such as, as a general rule, emphasising the environment by at least 30 pst. where relevant, as an allocation criterion.’;» Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a return to the Storting with proposals to improve the procurement rules, if necessary, in order to contribute to real market change.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e3547	Proposal No. 1-7, from the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a free and easily accessible advisory service for municipalities and other public purchasers.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a financing plan to strengthen the Acquisition Academy in the years to come.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that state actors use control systems on a real-time basis, such as HMS-Reg or alternative systems, in order to strengthen control of compliance with procurement rules.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: «The government is asked to ensure that serious claims are made similar to the Oslo model in all public acquisitions.» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to file a case to ensure trusteeship in public enterprises that purchase services, contract transparency and the terms and conditions of employment of the supplier under the Public Service Act and the Regulation.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to reintroduce the anti-contractor clause.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking for linguistic availability and quality in the Public Procurement Code, in line with the proposal of the Language Council’s future selection.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-14.ana.ud425e3618	There is no record available. This means that today's maps are ready to be processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
