ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e62	The following called alternates are now taking their seat: for Akershus: Kjartan Berland for More and Romesdal: Anders Riise for Oslo: Kristoffer Robin Haug for Nord-Trøndelag: Jorid Juliusus Nordmelan An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Workers' Group to the representative of Runar Seestad for the period from 10 December and until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The representative of the Vara of Finnmark, Ragnhild H. Kaski, is invited to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e105	Ragnhild H. Kaski is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e112	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinges meeting today. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The President will propose Svein Harberg and Kari Henriksen. Other proposals are not available, and Svein Harberg and Kari Henriksen are unanimously elected as chairmen of the current meeting. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's Storting meeting is suspended at 0 p.m. 12 to allow representatives to participate in the Nobel Peace Prize award ceremony in Oslo City Hall. Furthermore, the President will inform you that the meeting will be resumed at 9 p.m. 15.30 and continues until today's map has been processed.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e134	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the debate will be divided into two sections to deal first with the budget chapters of Framework Box 2 and then with the budget chapters of Framework Box 3. At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will organise the debate as follows: in each part of the debate, the allocated speaking time is limited to 1 hour and 20 minutes, and speaking time is allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Green Party 5 minutes, Red 5 minutes and members of the Government 5 minutes. Furthermore, part 1 and part 2 of the debate — within the allocated speaking time — will give rise to up to three lines with replies from the main figures of the parties and five lines with replies from members of the government. In addition, those who have to sign up for the speaker list in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e147	Good growing-up conditions for our children are a priority area for the government. A good family policy provides a basis for quality of life. Children growing up in low-income families must have the opportunity and the freedom to create their own future. They will have good care, live safely, establish stable friendships in growth and feel valuable in society. Unfortunately, new figures from the Central Statistical Office show that child poverty is increasing, especially in our big cities. Lone dependants and families with a migrant background account for the majority of those living with persistently low incomes. From 2006 until now, low-income immigrant families have increased by 38 pst. The church's urban mission recently presented a report on children growing up in low-income families. Children and young people who are interviewed talk about shame by not having equipment and clothes like others and being ashamed of not being able to take part in leisure activities. We're not going to have it that way. Thanks to the good economy in Norway, we have the opportunity to have income-balancing measures. Child welfare increased for the first time in 20 years in March, and now it is further increased for children up to the age of 6 years by NOK 3600 per year. National grant scheme for the inclusion of children and young people is reinforced by 200 million. kr since 2014. This year's government budget also introduces graduated parental pay into the school leisure system and the introduction of free school leisure arrangements for children with special needs from 5th to 7th grade. Housing aid for families with children and large households has increased by 126 million. kr. Some municipalities work well to balance income differences. I would like to pay tribute to my municipality of residence, Drammen, who has introduced free core time in kindergartens for low-income families, free school holidays in vulnerable urban areas, and a great deal of use by non-governmental organisations to serve free facilities, homework facilities and holiday trips. The business community is mobilised, together with municipalities and volunteers, to get more people with a migrant background in work. It's been a great success. Together with the municipalities and volunteering, the government has also signed the Leisure Declaration. This is a cooperation to offer at least one leisure activity to all children and young people. In order to achieve this goal, we will introduce leisure cards, so that all children are given the opportunity to participate in a regular, organised leisure service. It's set at 60 million. kr in the budget for testing the scheme. We believe that this is one of the factors that help balance income differences in Norway. Violence and child abuse are a serious social problem. The government granted in 2019 over 1 billion kr to the action plan we have against violence and abuse – it is further reinforced now. We need strong and good child protection, because we know that some children are subjected to serious violence and abuse. Child protection shall be provided when children and families need it. Some children must be in foster homes or institutions. Institutional child protection is strengthened in this budget, as more children than in the past are in need of extensive assistance. Child protection has been criticised, and we take this seriously. Child protection is a public responsibility, where private actors can also contribute positively to the diversity and development of services. The right is concerned with quality and transparency of private suppliers — as in the case of public authorities. The government has now launched a review of the framework conditions for the protection of children by private suppliers. The government is now reviewing the entire institutional child protection system. Child protection is a specialised service with great complexity. Further training is therefore important and needs to be strengthened. We've given money for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e160	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e166	I listened to Mr. Örmen Johnsen's comments with interest, and it was a good situational description of what the situation is like in Norway, and especially for poor children. What is remarkable is that it does not seem to go into the government's recognition that it is precisely the policy that the government is pursuing, that contributes to the increase in differences in Norway and that we have more poor children. It is not useful to show that poverty is high in immigrant families as well. Poverty affects everyone, regardless of their cultural background and where they were originally born. My question to Ørmen Johnsen is: What does Örmen Johnsen think can actually help to reduce and not increase differences in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e171	We know that work is the most important thing to balance differences. That is why we are constantly working on getting more people to work. I think we have to admit that there are more immigrant backgrounds that take time to get to work. We have quite a number of newly arrived refugees. It's a wild policy. We are obliged to accept them, and then it takes a little longer for these families to get to work. We have also started the large inclusion burden, and we are not least working with income balancing measures, as I mentioned in my article. We've actually increased child-restraint for the first time in 20 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e178	The committee leader, me and the rest of the committee have been told in the last year that there are a little too many places in child protection. We in the Center Party don't have all the answers. We do not have all the money, and I definitely feel that the government does not have it either. What does the chairman of the committee think about the situation now? Should the government, and also all of us and all of the other parties, get the focus a little bit higher in this field? Is it that precarious, as I see it, that there is now a need for much greater focus both around the government table and also in all the different parties? Is there any concrete committee leader that we think we should do in addition to what the government is doing now, as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e183	Child protection has been the subject of criticism, and in particular of exclusive measures, i.e. children who are isolated in institutions. At least I'm glad that there are fewer children in exclusive action now than it has been in the past. What happens is that the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs, together with the Ministry of Health and Welfare, has established two institutions to have children who have these special needs. We've also strengthened institutional child protection in the budget by 300 million. kr. But yes, I agree with the representative that there is a need to raise child protection much more clearly. Child protection starts in the municipalities, and now we get a new law on child protection. I think this is an opportunity to discuss child protection in its entirety. The law will also propose that municipalities provide a state report on child protection once a year. Then I think the politicians in the municipalities too will be more concerned about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e190	Several representatives from the Right Party make a point from this pulpit that things are going so well in the Norwegian economy. At the latest in the financial debate, the parliamentary leader from the Right did so. The question is good for who. It might go well for a few on top. There have been record new billionaires in Norway, for example, while for families with children in particular the picture is quite different. There are 102,000 children growing up in poverty. It's a record. A new SSB report shows that we have an increasing phenomenon with lonely dependants who are poor despite being in work, i.e. working poor. Among the groups with the greatest decline in household income, we find families with children. I wonder whether Mr Johnsen's representative agrees with his parliamentary leader that it is doing well in the Norwegian economy, and in that case for whom it is good.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e195	I agree that Norwegian economy is doing well, and the fact that Norwegian economy is doing well makes it possible for us to put in place measures for those who need it the most. With good Norwegian economy, we have, among other things, historically low unemployment, and more jobs are created in private business. It's important. We need tax revenue. Yes, it is worrying that there will be more poor children. One of the measures is child welfare. I also know that SV has in its alternative budget. We have an escrow plan for child welfare, and we want to raise it to 7,200 kroner. This means that there will be fewer poor children, at least below that income limit. We also provide housing. I think it's an important supplement to parents who are struggling, whether they're lonely or not, and then we're working on a inclusion. More people with a migrant background are going to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e204	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e210	The welfare society built on the Norwegian model, on the idea of cooperation, equal opportunities, small differences and equality, is unique. But now this model is under strong pressure. While the OECD again, and more clearly than before, indicates that the model provides the best social results, the right-wing, government and government parties fail. Governments reduce the importance of being professionally organised, it reduces and exposes the public sector, and it deliberately increases the differences between people – between city and country and between women and men. As individuals, as communities and as countries, we are affected by government's differential policies. But children are hit hardest by increasing differences and a hard-pressed local economy. Those of our children who need society because everyday life doesn't work at home meet local child protection on low-blossom. The government ignores the problems during the parole: ‘Just wait and see’. A legislative proposal must be the worst answer that can be found for children who urgently need society to make. At the same time, it is impossible to see the follow-up to the Storting decision to strengthen the public and non-profit offerings at the expense of the commercial ones. Children in poor-advised families can really be given a new working day through the BUA lending scheme. Some loan agencies say that entire school classes are on the day of activity for the first time, precisely because BUA exists. Available and professional lending of sports and leisure equipment prevents exclusion and contributes to smart and environmentally friendly resource use. The government is slowing down. They confirm a significant gap between the available funds and the number of applications for the establishment of offers. There is a need for monitoring, and one does not want to organise a plan that includes the whole country. Of course, no one starts offering loans where there is no need. Both inclusion, environmental considerations and organisation for more physical activity across the population are needed. Here, the government's extraction strategy should give way to quite obvious social gains. The working party therefore proposes 45 million. kr for BUA projects. Children’s and youth organisations need more free money, also because they are growing. Under the VAT compensation scheme, which is their main concern, they can include more and give greater activity and commitment. The draft budget is disappointing, as the follow-up to the VAT compensation system is weak. When the government parties saw quite disrespectfully in addition, the proposal is reduced by 15 million. kr, it's almost incredible. The youth organisations also receive an ABE cut from the government, they need to know. So it is also expected that young people will be more effective to learn how to beat reading. It is education and work for parents that is the best contribution to reducing the differences that affect children in everyday life. In addition, the initiatives we are promoting in our budget need: joint efforts for a reinforced school health service, more low-threshold services and the removal of marginalities for relief measures for children, young people and families. We want to remove the cash support and secure all children's nursery facilities with better quality and lower maximum price. 25 200 children of kindergarten age do not go to kindergarten. Many of these go missing very important ballast in the meeting with school everyday. We will start introducing school food, fruit and vegetables and a system of one hour of physical activity every day, facilitating 100 new environmental workers, free SFOs for the first class with five hours a week, youth cultural cards and an accessible BUA scheme. The working party does not reject the fact that cash can be an important contribution to a better everyday life for some children. But as it was emphasised at the Church's Bymission meeting on child poverty right now, it has to be ensured that the money actually goes to the children, and that the lock-in effects have been evaluated. And then welfare offers have to be in place. Unfortunately, they are confused during this government, where the greatest cash benefits go to the richest, without any profit - yes, except that the richest are getting richer and the differences are increasing.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e227	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e232	The labour party’s response to the challenges of child protection is a child protection that operates exclusively under public or non-profit-making conditions. There is a wrong answer to the real challenges of child protection. We see no difference in quality between the public and the private. In addition, unfortunately, we see adverse events in all kinds of institutions. To believe that the challenges we face today in child protection are solved by putting down the private ones is a record bomb. The most important thing is, of course, the children and the quality of the offer given. Therefore, we need to use private actors in a good way. We must insist that it is ultimately the public that is responsible for child protection in Norway. User studies show that there is no difference in user experiences, regardless of the organisational form of the institutions. What, then, is the main motivation of the Workers' Party for their resistance to the private, such as the in the ‘high risk behaviour’ and ‘low risk behaviour’ categories, account for the vast majority of the places?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e241	What's different about our policies and government policies is that we want to spend our money wisely. We do not want to waste the money on cash benefits that we do not know what is going on. Nor do we want to use the community's funds for the profits that go abroad. We see that the Christian People's Party in the government was with us to propose a phase-out of the commercial actors in child protection, precisely because more money is going to go to the ideals and the public offerings. What we see emerging from when competition gets so big is just that there's more business secrets to how these kids actually get it than there's going to be a sharing of good skills and good information flows between the institutions. It ensures the public and non-profit organisations to the full. They have long and good traditions to contribute together to do the best for the kids, which the commercials don't have so much experience in.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e248	We notice that the Workers' Party once again chooses to balance its budget by cutting the cash support. And the arguments used against the cash support are that it prevents integration. Yes, it seems that the Workers' Party thinks that only we're removing the cash support is all integration challenges solved. But both the Fafo and the Brochmann Committee point out that there is no economic incentive for immigrant women to be at home with their children, but that this is more about culture and values. Nor is it the case that the jobs are queued and waiting for the immigrant women only the Workers' Party gets them pushed out of the home. This is about language challenges, and languages are often the key to getting to work. Therefore, the Christian People's Party wanted to link the cash support to language training. We offer free core time in kindergarten. Today we also have a five-year housing requirement for cash beneficiaries. Does the representative of Henriksen really think that someone is getting better integrated by removing the cash support, or rather punishing them financially, or is it just such that they push immigrant women in front of them in the fight against family freedom?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e257	I can reassure the representative of the Christian People's Party that the Workers' Party is pushing no women, and especially not immigrant women, anywhere. We mean to give 50 billion. kr in cash support over so many years without results on women's integration is a poor solution. We believe that increased disposable benefit without even assessing the lock-in effect for women is a poor response. And we mean 25-26 billion. kr per year in tax cuts to the richest is a bad measure. – All these are examples of cash transfers that the government grants in this budget and that the government provides. Instead, we will provide 12 months of study support. That was the government's vote. We want to have low maximum prices in kindergartens and expand the SFO system. We have the BUA scheme, which I mentioned in my post, school food and more employees at school. It hits everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e266	I hear what the representative Henriksen says, but I find it regrettable that the Labour Party consistently argues with the line of work and integration when we discuss families and the best interests of children. That whole 60 pst. by the families of children choosing to use the cash support, tells us that this is so sure to be a loving arrangement, because not all one-year-olds are ready to start in kindergarten. Many also want more time with their children while they are very young. Then, as politicians, we must make it possible for there to be a real opportunity for those who do not serve the most. The Christian People's Party acknowledges that families are different, that parents know best what is good for their children, and we will give them freedom of choice to be a little longer at home with the one-year-old if they want it. The working party, on the other hand, gives young children’s parents the choice between kindergarten and kindergarten. Does the representative Kari Henriksen think that there is only one way to organise young children's lives, or what is the Labour Party's policy regarding giving families more freedom of choice and flexibility?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e273	I can reassure the representative of the Christian People's Party that Kari Henriksen is not just thinking about kindergarten or kindergarten. The Labour Party has a policy that really embraces the poorest and those who need a boost into the community. As I said, we have a broad approach to welfare systems. We don't cut in glasses for children or in dental care for children, we don't cut in excess of children's healthcare. No, the Workers' Party is creating and developing a welfare society that allows everyone to contribute to what they have, and with the prerequisites they have to participate in. We believe, and we also see in the statistics, that where there are other well-functioning welfare schemes, the use of cash support will go down. At least for immigrant women. Thus, the Christian People's Party is really standing up to the challenge: how do these women get into work?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e282	That's the line change. Does the representative, Kari Henriksen, wish to address the Labour Party's proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e289	That's what the representative wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e294	The representative Kari Henriksen then addressed the proposals made by the Labour Party alone and with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e300	Dizziness can destroy lives, but it can also kill lives. As I have been informed, since 2000, there have been about 150 women and 18 men killed by their partner in Norway. Many lives could have been saved if violence had been stopped in time. In order to help, we are just dependent on people out there saying from behind when they suspect that someone is being subjected to violence or abuse. Right now there is a campaign called 'Tausheit Takes Life'. If I am not mistaken, it ends today, the same day that we have debated in this Chamber. It's a campaign against violence against women, violence in close relationships and partner killings. This year, local authorities' work and offers are linked to violence against women and violence in close relationships that are in focus. For me, it is very important to stress that Norway should be able to live in security, and that is precisely why violence and abuse are my main focus in today's debate. Earlier in the fall, we had the 30th anniversary mark for the establishment of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, but it is known at any milestone that this was an anniversary for thought. We celebrated that children were guaranteed their own rights, but we also know that some work remains. As the child’s representative for the Progress Party, it is my responsibility to address the issue of children at Stortinget, and to me it has been particularly important this year to bring forward Articles 19 and 34 as some of the most important articles of the Children’s Convention: ‘All children have the right not to harm or abuse them’ and ‘All children are to be protected from sexual abuse’. The report presented by the National Knowledge Centre on Violence and Traumatic Stress earlier this year showed that we still have a long way to go in the fight against violence and child abuse. It's a very taboo theme. As noted in the report, every five children are exposed to violence from their parents. 1 in 20 children have been subjected to serious physical violence. A little over 1 out of 20 have been sexually assaulted by an adult. Overall, the study shows that violence in childhood is very rarely isolated, and that is precisely because it is sprayed down. This is gloomy reading. That is exactly why that study was so important for a year like this. It's a serious social problem, while, as I said, it's taboo. I believe that violence against children is unacceptable in any case. Once the government has raised the plan of escalation against violence and abuse, it also shows, as the investigation has revealed, that children with immigrant parents are far more vulnerable to serious violence and abuse. There are clear signs that integration still has a way to go. Violence against children is unculture, anyway. It's that simple. In Norway, we take care of our children, and I believe that we need to put a sharper search light on children's woe and well in the integration debate. The plan for stepping up against violence and abuse is now approx. 1 billion. kr. One of the objectives of these means is that no child should be subjected to violence and abuse. Children are vulnerable, and often violence and abuse against children are unfortunately too late. We have a lot to do about protecting children, but I think it's a very right step that you've now rounded 1 billion. kr on the escalation plan and that the government proposes to increase the bet by an additional 54 million. in 2020. There are many different good measures in that plan, and the importance of this work cannot simply be exaggerated. That is why I am very pleased that the government has also started work on a new national action plan against violence in close relations. The Children's Convention reminds us that children have inviolable rights, and that their voice shall be heard. Children shall not be subjected to violence. It's one of the most important battles of mine and the Advance Party. We just don't have to be naive. We politicians also have a responsibility that these children should not be exposed to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e321	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e326	Cash support – 50 bn. kr out of the treasury. 25-26 B.C.E. kr every year out of the treasury of cash transfer, or tax cuts, we can call it, to the richest, cut into dental health, glasses, disability and cut into chronically ill. Now we also get ABE cut in the voluntary sector. We have a police force that does not have sufficient resources, unfortunately, to investigate the violence that the representative Hemdal is engaged in. That concern is shared by the whole Storting, but there is not enough investigational means to follow up violence and abuse in families and against children. When we see the statistics that the differences are increasing and there are more poor children up against these cash transfers, is it a policy that the Progress Party is satisfied with?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e333	The party of progress is very concerned about it all, the most important thing to get out of poverty: that people come to work. Therefore, we believe that it is important to introduce further shocks in the integration of, among other things. immigrant women. But I think it's a very right path the Progress Party has been involved in, among other things. to set a five-year residence requirement in order to receive cash support.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e338	I would like to thank the representative for the focus she has on violence and abuse in close relations. There were gloomy statistics that were pulled up, and it made me more familiar, also with quite visual images, when the latent women had visited both the Oslo police and the crisis centre secretariat this weekend. It's not sustainable that there's so much of this. But after this has been revealed, child protection often comes in and will help. I wonder if the representative has the same impression that I have, that there are too many places in child protection now, and whether she thinks the government is doing enough. And not least, how in the world are we going to get enough focus at all parties in this particular area?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e345	Thank you to the representative for a good question. I missed several of the Committee's members in yesterday's debate, I have to say. Because it was actually just this that was the theme of my post. It was about mental health and how to now cooperate with the Ministry of Health and Child and Family Affairs on how to do better in child protection. It's been very important to me. The Progress Party has stressed several times that these children are entitled to health care, just like all other children. It was very important for me to underline yesterday, and I mean that. Now the government is running two projects with these treatment centres. It's definitely a step in the right direction. But I'm going to be the first to admit that not everything that happens in Norwegian child protection is good.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e354	After all, the Progress Party is a party with a proud history to be a sharp critic of politicians' balding and management with people's tax money. The party for a strong reduction in taxes, taxes and public intervention has in itself said: public waste of our tax money is going down. Nevertheless, for some reason, the party's flaming commitment to the tax money granted to the protection of children ceases immediately. Just as the tax money has been set against the Advance Party a flaming commitment to be used on everything else, for example. sent on holiday to tax havens to build up fortunes for a few. My question to the representative Hemdal is first of all: does the representative know how much money is being taken in profit from our tax money to child protection? And since it's obviously OK now, where does the boundary actually go?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e361	It is no secret that the Advance Party is concerned that children should receive the best offer and what is most sound. For Progress, it doesn't matter what kind of brand you have on the uniform. I know that SV has an ideological warfare against private actors, and of course they will be allowed to do so. But for the Advancement Party, it is important to give children the best help possible. Then I think the representative's question will be a derailment of the entire debate. In any business, you can have a profit. That's exactly why you get the company to go around. But I think it's strange that someone who's so happy to spend money challenges the Progress Party on it, when you're actually happy to increase taxes and at the same time really want to wind up Norwegian oil and gas.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e366	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e371	Norway is one of the world’s best countries to live in, and we score high on various international indices. The welfare state is well-developed, and values such as equality, freedom of expression, trust, equality and tolerance are central and contribute to good democracy. But that doesn't mean we don't have challenges, too much of what's good now, is threatened. Where government parties want one direction for society, the Center Party wants another direction. Today’s government lives after a centralisation mandate. Differences are increasing, and the distance from services is increasing too many in our long-term country. It should be a matter of course that the quality of services should be equivalent throughout the country, but it is not. People are frustrated and feel discouraged. The centre party will take hold. We will work for a good and equivalent public service service throughout Norway, regardless of where you live. We want social, geographical and economic cohesion, as our alternative budget shows, with many measures to stop centralisation and make the differences smaller among people. When it comes to family policy, the Center Party wants a policy that will give parents time and space to be parents. Here, too, in our alternative budget, we will help to balance social and economic differences, create good quality of life and give all children the right to a safe and healthy upbringing, no matter where they live in the country. We want to strengthen public responsibility for child protection measures by 150 million. kr and strengthen mental health care for children in child protection by 20 million. kr. We also want to reintroduce the Finnmark and swallowbard supplement into the child's back and then add 12 million. kr in addition. We want to strengthen the first line in Nav by 220 million. kr, reverse the non-social cut in support of child goggles of 122 million. NOK 127 million. to introduce free school fruit in youth schools, as well as 400 million. kr to complete the financing of the nursery code. We have a strong commitment for children and young people in low-income families, and not least the Centre Party will strengthen the cultural field and the voluntary sector. A whole $211 million. kr more than the government we use for cultural and volunteering purposes, which will definitely have a positive impact on children and young people and families, and solid 140 million. kr in addition to VAT compensation for voluntary teams and associations. At the top of this, we're going to use 450 million. kr to lower the culture tax from 12 pst. to 10 pst, making use of cultural services cheaper for the same group. But now to some of the most important things I feel that we politicians can care about, namely, our child protection. The main objective of child protection is to ensure that children and young people living under conditions that could harm their health and development receive the necessary assistance in a timely manner. This is a very complex field and a field where, as I said, there's too much going on, too many places. I believe that all the members of the committee agree on this, which was also reflected in the fact that, in the Central Party, we organised a seminar on the situation, with good participation from the Committee, and where the left-wing impression was that there are a lot of challenges we have to address, after all the depressing reports, all the media disclosures, the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights and the Heirs campaign of the employees. One of our main priorities in Framework Area 2 is therefore child protection. For 2020, we are proposing 150 million. kr to municipal child protection in addition to the millions they receive from the government, because there is an increasing need to strengthen the staff there. In many places, there is a high degree of pervasiveness, a high level of sick leave, work pressure and length of proceedings. This affects the quality, the working environment of employees and the ability to provide good and proper service. The Joint Organisation and, in particular, the Children’s Ombudsman have pointed out on several occasions that child protection needs to be provided with more staff in the municipalities. It is therefore incomprehensible that the government does not take these signals seriously and does not have any measures to improve that situation. The centre party is also concerned about the growing difference between poor and rich in society, where the proportion of children in families with persistently low incomes continues to increase. The poverty rate in cities is higher than the national average. At present, there is a diversity of measures to combat child poverty, but these measures do not always take those who need it the most. I am seriously concerned that children down to the age of 10-11 are now being recruited as runners for criminal environments. We could recently see that in the TV documentary Norway behind the façade. A clear motivation for getting involved in criminal environments is easy-to-know money and goods. Poverty and the harsh economy of parents push young people to make these choices. Children and young people are vulnerable, and it goes without saying that when other children walk around them daily with expensive brand clothes and telephones, you feel enormous pressure. I wish it wasn't like that, and it's clear we have to work cross-sectorally to meet these challenges. In our alternative budget, we're proposing $5 million. D more than the government of child and youth action in larger urban communities, and we propose 10 million. SEK to bet on juvenile delinquency in Oslo and SEK 5 million. to organisations engaged in crime prevention. I have to round up now because of the speaking time, but will come back to our priorities in other areas of Framework 2 in another post. I'll bring that up with our suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e399	The representative of Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e407	In the past, the Center Party was a centre party in Norwegian politics. Now it may seem that populism has brought them into the arms of the red wing, and I am a little surprised that the centre party is involved in such a red policy in the budgetary process. The Progress Party believes that the consideration of children and families dependent on good child protection services is overrun here. In fact, the most important thing is to prevent private individuals from providing good child protection services. Does the Central Party representative really believe that private individuals cannot provide as good and in some cases better child protection services than, for example: the public?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e414	It's fun to be pushed around as a center party and on the one hand hear that we've become populists, while on the other hand, someone thinks we're more like the representative's party in other things. I disagree with both that we are not a center party and that we are populists. That being said, the reason we as a party are not against the commercial large groups getting so much of our tax money to go on after they've done services, is part of a red policy. They like to have good services, but we don't want our tax money to be used that way. I'm absolutely sure that if we had just backed up on our own child protection and the public, it would be just as good. When it comes to distributing tax money fairly, it's a very good center policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e423	I am not entirely convinced, because former central governments have arranged for both public, non-profit and private actors to provide such services. Even the previous red-green government, of which the Center Party was part, did this for eight years. They didn't do anything to stop the use of either non-profit or private actors, and I wonder if it's because the Center Party and their red friends inside understand that even private suppliers are needed. Is the representative of the Central Party willing to take responsibility for the fact that children and families are being offered a worse offer because of ideologically driven struggle against private actors?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e430	Here it's incredibly important that the representative get something that the Center Party is very concerned about: there's a big difference, for our part, between private non-profit actors and private large commercial groups that are most concerned with profit. We've been working hard every year to get the ideal actors to give us a supplement, to improve the quality of public services. But we're not particularly excited that all the money we spend on public services does not go back to operations and to the same services. That's why we've unfortunately seen a lot of examples of being a little too busy taking profits and making money in some private, commercial institutions, and we just think that's wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e439	The representative talked a lot in his post about what she wanted to spend money on, but that representative from the Center Party didn't talk much about, was where she wanted to cut. Since child protection is now so important to the Center Party, I wonder how, first of all, you can cut 20 million. kr in State Children's Protection, second cut 28 million. kr in the administration of purchases for the protection of children and, thirdly, 70 million. kr in the purchase of private child protection services. If you cut this overnight, is the representative willing to take responsibility for what this will mean when there are children there who will not be able to get an offer?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e444	When we add a budget, it's a total assessment you're busy with. Then it's about being able to get priorities of what we think is most important, which, for our part, within these frameworks, is getting more money for municipal child protection. Then we have to pick up from elsewhere where we believe it is possible to take. That's why it's cut in some bureaucracy, which is also very clear central party policy. When it comes to cutting the purchase of private child protection services, there is also a lot of crazy policy. It is to make it clear that we as a party are tired of the government not following the request decision that came from Stortinget that we should scale down the use of the private sector. In addition, it turns out, I've seen, that the activity in terms of the need to purchase private services has not been so high in some areas. The Minister also says that we should now bring down the exclusive measures, which are extremely expensive. It tells us that we're not going to need such a large sum.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e453	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e458	The differences in power and wealth are increasing, and the government's own report of the growing differences is quite clear: the richest are leaving, while the common people are hanging out, and the low pay is left with less and less after the bills are paid every month. The increasing class divisions particularly affect families. 102,000 children now grow up in poor families, families with persistent low incomes. It's a record. A new SSB report shows that we have a growing problem with the poverty of lonely dependants, despite their being in work. Internationally, it is called ‘working poor’, a phenomenon we have not had in Norway for many decades, but it is back in Norway. Among the groups with the greatest decline in household income, we are just finding the families with children. That's why we're worried. We're worried when we see that more and more families know that it's a little bit harder to get everything into the everyday life of every year that goes. There are more and more families who are afraid that they will not be able to give the children the Christmas they are enjoying. And then, when the result is black on white because the numbers aren't juggling, the government's family distribution policy becomes so petty. Although we are absolutely happy with increased child-responsiveness, we see the result when child-responsiveness does not come to those who need it the most in most municipalities, when we see that it is eaten up by unsocial cuts in everything from support to glasses and regulation for children to cut in addition to poor parents or increased kindergarten prices – all while those who have the most from before are getting more and more. It is a distribution policy from children to large bank accounts. We believe that the distribution policy is petty, and we show in our alternative budget that it can be snuffed out. So we're going to spend 870 million. Only in the budget framework 2, family policy. We can do that because we cancel the government's big tax cuts to them with big bank accounts. We spend the big money on the small ones instead, a distribution policy for the benefit of the families. The result of that is that we can increase the child's health by a further 1.7 billion. to ensure that it is accessible to all, including the beneficiaries of social assistance. This allows us to introduce municipal waiting support for those who have not yet been given kindergarten, and we can lower taxes for ordinary families, for everyone with income below NOK 600 000, to mention something. All of this is a well-known SV policy that gives a significant boost to the wallets of ordinary families. But in this year's alternative budget, we have also made an extra boost and a new grip for the crucial first year in children's lives. Today there is a big class distinction between those who have earned parental leave and those who do not. Many, especially single dependants, have a loose relationship with the labour market and are therefore not entitled to parental leave. The economy of these families is seriously affected. All they get is a pretty small one-off sum. Therefore, SV chooses to listen to a long, long range of public investigations and replace today’s one-off support with a minimum performance, a floor, with parental carers for everyone at around DKK 200000 per year. It will provide a special boost for the group of lone dependants who are now falling further and further under the unsocial distribution policy of this government. It will be a big investment in all children's first years of life, which is so important for a good and safe upbringing the rest of childhood. Good distribution policies and good family policies are linked. SV distributes for the best of the children, not to those with large bank accounts. We spend the big money on the little ones among us. I think that's a choice of values about the great values of our society. With that, I recommend SV's proposal on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e477	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e482	It is a good thing that we have a variety of child protection providers, and the government wants to facilitate this. The aim is, of course, high quality, freedom of choice and adaptation to the needs of the individual child. However, it must be clear that the public has, and will have, responsibility for child protection in Norway, and the public must have control over the proper provision of children and families and the rational use of resources. When placed in an institution, it is sometimes such that the country itself covers its own locations before sheltered bids for ideals, and finally they come commercially. But despite this sieve, we see that the service is completely dependent on the private providers to meet the needs. How will the Headquarters representative organise the institutional part of child protection to ensure the capacity, quality and diversity we depend on for services that meet all users, according to their needs?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e489	Thank you for a good question. I think it is absolutely, absolutely essential that we bet on the ideal actors, who for many, many years have been an important supplement, and even more than a supplement, for the protection of public institutions. Unfortunately, the ideal actors today report that they are being swept out of the commercial actors over whom the Right lays its blessing hand. Previous cooperation, for example: the ideal actors with the public, and they could develop new methods, drive innovation and find better ways to provide care and protection for children. But now they're reporting that it doesn't work out. Because the right-hand side has rigged child protection to become market thinking and commerce, that kind of innovation needs to be protected as business secrets. It is not a sensible organisation of Norwegian child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e495	According to the SSB, 56 pst were found. of all residence days in 2018 instead of in privately owned child protection institutions, care centres and centres for parents and children. The distribution of activity between private and public institutions in the protection of children was as in 2017. The private stands for 51 pst. of the operational expenditure of the institutions. With 56 pst. therefore, they are somewhat more reasonable than public institutions. In addition, we know that private institutions have some of the most resource-intensive users. We know that little or nothing distinguishes the quality, that state and municipality depend entirely on the private places to meet the needs, and that public places are the most expensive. Then we're left with the fact that there can only be ideological reasons for the aversion to the private from the SV side. The question to the representative will then be: How does he imagine that our taxpayers will finance expansion and operation without the private providers?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e502	It's a little challenging to respond to lines based on a wrong premise: the premise where you don't distinguish between the ideal private actors and the commercial private actors, as the representative Pettersen did in his post now, when he referred to statistics. I'm very concerned about principles here – I am, and I think that makes sense too, because most people in Norway fully agree with SV in our principle that the tax money we grant for well-being should go to well-being. I also believe that just as far as child protection is concerned, enough support for that principle is even clearer than in many other areas of well-being. The idea of being allowed to take profits and send to tropical islands with many mailboxes – and that, in terms of our child protection – it doesn't understand people. I would like to invite the representative Pettersen to defend that principle.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e509	Being a parent for the first time is probably one of the strongest and most amazing things we can experience here in life. Still, we're many people who can sign that it's quite overwhelming. You get life turned around in your head, with nightstands, breast-feeding, baby crying and mess, a lot more things to work with about, etc. Therefore, in the Christian People's Party, we are very pleased that we have prioritised the offer of a life course for all first parents in this budget. The SV representative has stated on several occasions that he is opposed to this, that it is only perceived as obnoxious and moralizing, and that this is not about the child in the centre. But how does the representative of the Supreme Court think that an offer of a life course, i.e. a voluntary offer, can be seen to be humiliating? And doesn't the Supreme Court believe that a low level of conflict in the home, that parents can communicate well with each other, will serve the children – even in those cases where life crimes are a fact?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e516	What I feel is disgusting and a crazy priority in terms of family support policy – which is an important policy area, and I am happy to have a question about it – is to move 17.5 million. from a support scheme which places the child's needs in the centre, to what appears to be a new contribution from this government at the Christian People's Party in the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs, namely a life course. The reason why I think this is a wrong priority is to take the child away from the center of the support device. I believe that there may be good reasons to support my life by having a course in life – that may be fine for me. But when you move the money away from arrangements to deal with the child, I think it is a wrong priority. The Mental Health Council has also said very clearly that it is not necessarily the form of life that is the most important. That's the care the child gets.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e521	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e526	The very first sentence of the principle programme of the Left is: «Our goal is the freedom of individuals». Everyone shall have the opportunity to have the power of his or her own life, regardless of sex, faith, outlook on life, situation and background. It requires a strong gender equality policy, and then I mean a policy that wants to equalise and liberate all people, not only those who experience restrictions and discrimination because of sex, but also those who are not actively involved in society or who fulfil their potential because of disability, background, gender identity, orientation or anything else. Left jobs to see each person for who it is, not the category it belongs to. Everyone shall have equal rights and freedom to create meaningful lives and participate in the rest of the world's work and society. There are still many who are kept out of community and are denied their rights today. Discrimination, hatred and outdated attitudes and norms raise the threshold of participation and prevent people from living good lives. I'm particularly concerned about hate crime against biases and double minorities, which are often blamed for lack of expertise or capacity in the police. I'm worried about those who feel that just being themselves is dangerous and is hard on the environment. VG’s revelations of various homotherapy practices that exist in Norway, or the statistics related to skating attitudes, especially in the South, show that many still have to live with a limiting fear, and not all of us are equal. We have to do more. The fact that we at Stortinget, in addition to the government parties' efforts in the budget, grant more than half a million dollars in addition to the government's budget proposals for the Free and Rosa Association's competence and the fight against hate crime, is one of many steps on that path. Last year and last year I was also worried about the people behind the metoo revelations. That so many, especially women, experienced sexual harassment at work was a major challenge for equality. What kind of consequences do such experiences have for which jobs you are applying for, how long do you manage to work full time, or how safe do you feel at work? Metoo was the beginning of a huge change of attitude in the population and in the labour market with which it is going to take time before we are in the target. I am very pleased that the government with the Left in charge was able to put in place a low-threshold offer for people who experience sexual harassment, and that, therefore, the Discrimination and Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman is receiving increased appropriations in this budget. Here the government has given a good response to a major societal challenge and thus eliminated at least parts of my concern. Another group I think it's good that the government has prioritised in the budget, are the children who live in low-income families. I represent myself in Norway with most children living in low - income families, Old Oslo. In three neighborhoods in my town, Lower Tøen, Greenland and Enerhaugen, over half of the children grow up in families with poor advice. I started my post talking about freedom, and one of the perhaps greatest obstacles to freedom is poverty. Providing the individual's freedom independently of the background means that we have a responsibility to give children the opportunity to create a better life than their parents. In Norway, the income or background of parents shall not determine what life will be like; it shall give one's own dreams, desires and abilities a prerequisite for doing so. Since the Left began to cooperate with the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party six years ago, we have done a lot for these children, both to alleviate the experience of poverty here and now and to prevent poverty from being inherited by the children. Ensuring the freedom and equal opportunities of all people requires an early start. Here, the government's efforts in a number of areas need to be seen in the context. Our most important children can carry in their luggage have completed schooling. Knowledge is crucial in tomorrow's working life, and work is the simplest way out of poverty. But free schooling is not enough, children also need to be equipped for schooling and active participation in society from small ones. For this reason, the Left has fought through free core time in the kindergarten for the children from the least-favoured families. That's why we in the 2020 budget have a stake in SFO, or AKS, as it's called here in the city, and I'm very happy that we from next year for the first time also target child welfare. We're the first government in over 20 years that's done something about child welfare, so now we're going to do something extra for those who have children under six. The 2020 budget is on the line with those with the weakest voice. It's an opportunity and freedom budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e541	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e546	The representative talked about gender equality policy. The Storting will have the opportunity to discuss tomorrow's LHBTI policy, and I'm guessing that there will be a debate with great words and a lot of great visions. Today, we are dealing with the framework for which gender equality we carry out in practice. The organisations in the LHBTI field, such as the FRI, Skeiv World, Skeiv Jugenddom, Salam, etc., who every day do the really important job out there where people work and live, working with attitude-creating work, we know that jobs in the opposite direction now, because they are being attacked. They tell us about a everyday life that is becoming increasingly difficult because the appropriations have been kept silent and someone has been cut during this government. What does the representative of Almeland think about these organisations saying that it is becoming more difficult and not easier to work with awareness-raising work during this government?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e555	Thank you for the question, because it gives me the opportunity to talk about this area, which I am very concerned about. The concern of several of these organisations is to be taken seriously, because these organisations are doing a very important job in the municipalities and in the communities to ensure that they support groups and people who often tend not to be heard. Then the government's bets have to be seen in the context, as I was also in my post. We give solid support to these organisations – we will continue to do so – and we will also ensure that we have efforts in other areas that support this work. A central part of this is precisely what is being done in the knowledge sector with the new curricula, in order to ensure that these themes too are adequately addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e562	I am pleased that the representative is raising the challenges of both hate crime and discrimination against LHBTI people in his speech. There are many areas in our framework area that we are discussing in this particular debate. I'm also glad that the Center Party shares that concern, and that, in addition to what the government is doing in that area, we're adding 2 million. SEK to Salam, FRI and Rosa competence. That being said, the representative was not talking about my biggest issue in this debate, namely child protection. I wonder what kind of attitude the Left has to the status of child protection now a day. Is that good enough? Do we do enough? Does the government do enough? If the answer to that is no, what can we do to make both the government parties and all the other parties raise this area higher?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e569	Thank you for this question too. That's not all you get time to say in five minutes, but when we see many of the revelations that have come in different media in the area of child protection, it's quite clear that a lot of this is not good enough. That is why I am pleased that the Council of State, the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, has been so clear on that very point. Now we are in several processes aimed at just a lot of the concerns that I know the representative also shares. There will be a process of a new Child Protection Act, in which several of these issues will be addressed in concrete terms. I look forward to that. And just to underline it, we in the left are also not satisfied with the state of the day, and that's exactly why we want to do something with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e577	I must challenge the representative from the Left on those organisations that are at the forefront of the fight for the freedom and rights of the skewers. There is also an increasing concern about this fight, a kind of backlash, unfortunately, in several areas. At the same time, therefore, support for those organisations – the grants to the heroes – that are at the forefront of the struggle, that meet all the false news, that meet all the disinformation, and that are out working with attitudes, still rests on the ground. The result is e.g. that the newly established organisation of Salam, which works for the rights of skews in Muslim environments, is not supported. Is the representative of Almeland satisfied with that, in the time we now go into?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e584	Just to address this backlash as the representative mentions: it is quite right – we see it internationally, and we also see it branching in Norway. Our main answer is, I think, that this government is so clear on what support these organizations actually have in their work. When this government hosted the IDAHOT conference last year, and took the initiative for a joint opinion of the countries participating in that conference, it was at least a clear answer to where Norway and this government stand on these questions. I think that is important because it is also a signal that goes beyond the borders of Norway. When it comes to the appropriations of these organisations, it's not entirely true, what the representative here claims, because some of the steps we took on the Stortinge in dealing with this budget, were increasing the allocation to, among other things. FREE, through Rosa competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e591	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e596	One of the most important things we as a society can do is to facilitate our children's safe and well-growth. That is why I am pleased that the budget we have to deal with here today is a budget for children. For most of us, the family is the first and most long-term relationship we have. If we build strong families, we build safe children and also a warmer society. Through the political priorities we have set out in this budget, we strengthen families, whether through the historical increase in child welfare, the cash support – which gives families the opportunity to choose the solution that best suits their children, the leisure card – that ensures that all children and young people participate in leisure activities regardless of their parents' finances, or the life course for first-time parents to provide them with the tools they need to deal with family life. Investing in children and families is investing in the future. Child welfare is the single most likely to affect the growth of fewer children in low-income families. In March of this year, families experienced the first increase in children's pension of over 20 years, and in this budget we are following up a further increase of NOK 3600 for families with children between 1 and 6 years of age. One of the things the Christian People's Party is proud to have strengthened in recent years is the cash support. That's because we know that families are different and that each child is unique. In the case of early childhood, it is not the case that one template fits all – on the contrary. Therefore, it is particularly regrettable to note that the cash support has been cut into several of the opposition's budgets. I find it strange that these parties believe that they know better than the families themselves how to organize their family life. When the whole 60 pst. by the families actually making use of the cash support, it is an expression that it is a desired and beloved arrangement. That's why I wonder that the critics are so out there to remove this support, like the majority of the families of children, or to reduce it so much that it's not a real alternative. Not enough of the cash support being cut, the Workers' Party also drastically reduces the one-off benefit. This cannot be the case in a country that needs more children to be born, that only those who are at work and who have earned full parental rights can afford to bring children to the world. That is why I am pleased that in this budget we are significantly increasing the one-off benefit, and that we have also set up a parental pension. We also see that the pressure on families is increasing from the community around them. This certainly does not help many political parties to send strong signals that women should return to work more quickly, that families should not be able to avail themselves of schemes that increase their freedom of choice, and that the State and the public should take on important tasks for families. This pressure is what the last families need. Here, too, there is a clear ideological difference in the view of families. When the other batches in their alternative budgets propose to remove the cash support on the grounds that it hinders the working line, families are reduced to a means of achieving the opposition's objectives. Rather, the Christian People's Party will remove obstacles that stand in the way of building strong families. For the families are a goal in themselves, and we want to strengthen the families, not control them. Another important effort we have put in place to strengthen families is the offer of a life course for first-time parents. It is referred to as moralizing by some, but it aims to secure and strengthen families and relationships. Those of us who have had children know that it's one of the most amazing things you can experience in life, but it's also a very overwhelming time. You get your life turned upside down in an incredible number of ways, and a life course for those who want it, will be able to give your parents good tools when they start building their family. A low level of conflict in the home and good dialogue between parents just serves the children. So yes, we in the Christian People's Party are proud of the priorities we have given to the children and families in this budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e615	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e620	It was a good post about children and families. So we are in a situation where child poverty is increasing – 102,000 more poor children. We have the weakest local economy that a government has ever provided, we have a government that abdicates from crises in child protection, for example, and we have children and young people who experience harassment, violence and exclusion from social communities that means a lot to them. Reports from Fafo and, inter alia: The pamphlet of the resource to help people and children growing up in oppressive religious environments is important in this context. The representative points to families, while the government cuts in measures, such as glasses, dental health, etc., and also cuts in support of organisations that can help children and young people get better. Does the Christian People’s Party’s representative believe that a gay couple with two children is a full - fledged family?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e625	Now there were a lot of things the representative took up in his post. When we're busy with families, it's a sincere commitment, and we're talking about all families. If the representative Henriksen listens to my posts, I keep talking about children being different, and that families are different. It's not just about the family constellations, of course our family policy applies to all families whether they're immigrant families, gay families or bonus families. This applies to everyone, but we're concerned that we should have solutions that give freedom of choice and flexibility, precisely because they're so different. All children are unique, all parents must be allowed to choose the solutions that are needed to make their everyday life a reality. We do not see that the Workers' Party is adding up; they only give them the choice between kindergarten and kindergarten, which the representative Henriksen did not respond to in my reply instead.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e630	I don't know if I got quite wise on the answer to the last question from the representative Henriksen, whether a child with two gay parents is an equally good family. The representative would like to answer that more clearly. As you may have discovered, I have a special love to address the child protection situation in the line exchange today. It's important to me that we might collect a little bit of power to do something at all, because the situation is not good enough – as we in the Center Party see it. Now I have asked everyone and have confirmed that it is not good enough. We have to do more. Then is the question to the Christian People's Party representative: if she thinks that the situation in child protection is worse than it should have been, how can the government do even more than they have planned, and not least how can all parties focus more on this important area?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e637	All first: All children should be proud of their parents and their families. We have a family policy that applies to absolutely all types of family constellations. I feel that there is a cross-political commitment to child protection. It focuses heavily on it, and I'm incredibly pleased, to ensure that children grow up safely, is the most important thing we can do as big business, government and civil society. Then we have slightly different thoughts about what should be the top priorities for child protection that clearly have challenges. We believe that the key to strengthening child protection is to increase competence, to provide further education, to ensure that each child is offered a suitable offer. We know that taking care is the most intrusive thing anyone can experience. Then it is so important that the decisions taken become correct, and that each child is offered a tailor-made offer for their needs. It has to be the germ itself in everything we do in child protection, that the child is in the center and gets even more involved in all of the decisions that are about himself.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e644	Children in need of child protection shall not be exposed to profits and markets. Care shall be placed on the market, children over store. Priority should be given to those parts of actors that are now being squandered. This Christian People's Party has agreed with SV about, at least before they joined the government, because before the Christian People's Party joined the government, they agreed to decide to increase the ideal share of child protection at the expense of the commercials, and they helped to reduce the use of single purchases, i.e. single children in tenders. Nevertheless, the situation is largely the same now. The ideals do not increase, and there have been several children on the offer – single children. The Ideal Child Protection Forum reports that they have heard nothing more about the follow-up to the Storting decision, it has stopped. Does the Christian People's Party continue to believe that a non-profit share in child protection should be increased at the expense of commercials and that the practice of single children in tenders should be reduced?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e649	We see that the ideal actors have a very special competence, they're very skilled, and we also have a platform that says we want to strengthen the ideal position. At the same time, we see that we need a diversity of actors. It's about competence, and it's just about capacity challenges. We think this diversity of actors is the best thing to give to every child just the tailored solutions that I talked to Sem-Jacobsen about. At the same time, we all agree that it is the government that should control child protection, and we must always keep an eye on developments in the balance between the use of private actors and private commercial actors up against the public. But I'm very sure that in the time that comes, with the focus we put on child protection, we will take care of it in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e657	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e662	Ensuring strong, good families is one of the most meaningful things you can do in politics. We know that the family is the most important community for most of us, and having good, safe families ensures even more children and young people a safe and healthy upbringing. Unfortunately, we see at the same time that there are too many who fall outside society today. That's why the government's profile and commitment to this budget are very clear. We want a stronger effort for the families. We want better child protection. We want more powerful measures to combat poverty and to combat violence and abuse. For the first time in over 20 years, the government increased child benefit by DKK 1,000 a year, and for the next year, we're going to increase it by NOK 3600 for those with children under six. It is an important act, especially for those families who have poor finances, which will give them more opportunity to meet the challenges they face in everyday life. At the same time, we have a commitment to family protection. I just got a NOU about a new, enhanced and improved family protection, which is going to be very exciting to continue working with. Having a good and strong family protection we know is important to those who have challenges in everyday life. We all have that, so we're also betting on a life course, especially targeting first-time parents. We know that the transition from two to three can be extra demanding, and having tools when you know that the challenges are coming, we think we'll be important. It will be important for those living together, but it will also be important for young people to make the transition the best possible. Then we're very concerned about strengthening child protection. Whether that is what we have had many debates in this Chamber, and in the 2020 budget, we are continuing the important efforts to strengthen child protection. I would like to highlight in particular that we are increasing the training effort. It's now about 90 million. kr. It will also be important to continue training – to strengthen competence there – and I would also like to say that guidance from the municipalities that we know is the most difficult. The head of the committee was concerned that the different municipalities should be required to have reports on the state of their municipality, and we are also working to get an even better overview of their municipalities, so that we can go in and help those municipalities that need it the most. There, we're going to try out a new model of relief measures to reinforce early efforts and to avoid one having to go to the step of deciding to take care. We also work with foster homes because we know that there will be some children who will need a new place to live. The most important thing is to have a safe and good foster home. If you don't succeed or the child has extra needs, we'll have good institutional places. It is committed in the 2020 budget for 300 million. This means better responses for the most vulnerable. Not too long ago, I received a report on violence and assault from the NKVTS, the National Knowledge Centre on Violence and Traumatic Stress: UEVO – The Youth Study on Experiences in Violence and Abuse. There were over 9,000 children and young people who had answered questions without parental consent, and the answers are worrying. They confirm to the extent that many of the numbers we've seen before, but one in five children and young people experience violence and abuse, is dramatic. That is why we are in the process of following up the plan of escalation against violence and abuse. As the representative, Mr Hemdal, mentioned in his speech, there are many new measures in the next year’s budget: the ‘SNAKKE’ and ‘I know’ programmes, an extension of the Alternatives to Violence to get a new office in Finnmark, which I think is particularly important, and a separate low-threshold helpline. We focus more on research — and that is where the UEVO study is important — because we know that research, knowledge, enables us to put in even more effective and important measures. All of this is important to ensure that even more children and young people are safe and well-growthed. In the 2020 budget, we also have a further focus on leisure cards. In 2019, Vadsø and Arendal carried out the pilot project. Next year, we'll increase support. We're going to spend 60 million dollars. kr to include even more experimental municipalities. The goal is to be able to roll out a model that ensures all children and young people between 6 and 18 years of age a leisure card in which they can choose the activities they want to participate in, to get an even better network, to make more friends and to experience mastering, as well as to spend over 300 million in 2020. a grant scheme to help those living in persistent poverty and to provide them with a leisure and holiday offer. Then there is a big message for treatment soon, the consumption of the future – green, smart and digital, which I look forward to discussing in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e683	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e688	FRI, Salam, Rosa's skills and others have been cut in their appropriations. The municipality of Hammerfest has now been notified by the Christian People's Party in Hammerfest because they have allowed the Rosa competence course to take place, i.e. to present the information and the knowledge of sexual orientation laid down in government policy on behalf of, among others, the mission of the local government. The Health Directorate. The Christian People's Party is in government, and the Minister for Children's and Family Affairs is responsible for the role of the FRI, which carries out the mission they have received from the government. We know that many children and young people find it very difficult to have a different sexual orientation than the norm, so this mission is important. How does it feel to be responsible for a policy that the Christian People's Party locally reports a municipality to carry out?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e693	Now I do not know the concrete example, and in the case of grants from that budget, it is the responsibility of the Minister for Culture and Gender Equality. I'm sure she'll be able to answer that well. When the representative claims that it is cut, she sits and shakes her head, so that means that it does not vote. As far as the Free State is concerned, we have also been concerned about it, and, as Mr. Grunde Almeland said in his speech, the grant was increased in Stortingen now, precisely because having the skills of employees on how to meet children and young people with different orientations is incredibly important. As the representative was in the room, we know that many people feel that being gay, growing up and being insecure on their own, is demanding for a lot of people. That is why, as Minister for Children and Family Affairs and as head of the KRF, I am concerned that we should meet them in a good and safe way. That is why I believe that the budget we have put forward is good in this area, and I am absolutely sure that the Minister for Gender Equality will talk more about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e707	In the child protection case, we have had a development in which we do not see any trace of the majority decision that the Christian People's Party was part of when they were in opposition. Now that they have come into government, it looks as if they may have put that proposal in a drawer – or where it may be – in the government offices. SV was interested in what was earlier here today, on questions. The Labour Party has proposed a municipal reform for the protection of children. This does not follow the government at all, and the government does not want to come here and make a statement about the child protection situation. In terms of private and ideals, everyone got the impression that the Christian People's Party would have a child's protection in non-profit and public terms, and we promoted the matter to bring it together. There's no trace of it in the budget. Why is the Council of State failing in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e712	Now I guess I've answered this question a number of times in this room, but I realize that it needs to be repeated a lot of times to get it inside. This is a proposal that I myself voted in favour of, and one that I am in the process of following up. We are committed to strengthening the ideal situation, and the representative of Gleditsch Lossius was involved in his post – the ideals provide diversity, together with private, together with public, to provide the best possible offer to the most vulnerable children. We're working to figure out how to increase the proportion of ideals in the best possible way. I would like to stress that when we talk about vulnerable children, I'm skeptical about moving them around just to meet political objectives. If a child lives in a public or private institution and it works very well, I think it would be unfortunate to move it just to comply with this decision. This is a requirement up to 2025, and we're going to do that. We're putting the lead on that. One of the requirements I'm making is that when Bufdir is going to choose, they're going to choose ideals in front of commercial ones. This is followed up in practice, and we are working hard on the proposal itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e723	This is about the offers to the children who are among the most vulnerable in our society. No one on the Stortinget has asked the government to move children around. What we have asked for is that children should be guaranteed stable conditions. They must be guaranteed predictability, and we must ensure that all the money is spent on the children and not on commercial players or that the money is moved abroad. State councils can repeat and repeat and repeat, but what we see is a retired state council that does not take political control of child protection at all, which does not recognise that there is indeed a crisis in many parts of the child protection service, and does not want to strengthen either prevention or municipal child protection with a single crown. It's quite serious. But the most serious thing is that he doesn't follow the decision of the Storting and just lets the wait-and-see attitude dominate.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e728	It's a description of reality that I take a great distance from. If there's something I spend time in the department, there's child protection, precisely because it's important, and because it's a field that I've been occupied with for a long, long time – fighting violence and assault, ensuring that kids get a safe upbringing. It's important to me as a politician. That's why I'm glad that the crew in the municipal child-restraint has gone up. Yes, we do not use earmarks, nor do we use the norm, as the Workers' Party suggests, and they cannot say how to work in practice. But the municipalities take the responsibility that they have, and I am very happy about that. It's municipal, and they have to be allowed to take that responsibility. We're conducting a competence effort. Now it's 90 million. kr for next year. It's a huge effort, which means a great deal to raise the competence of child protection. And yes, I've been clear that there are major challenges in child protection. That's why we're doing field by field to lift it. This I'm absolutely sure we're not going to make it during this period. It's a long-term job, and that's why I'm going to come up with new issues in terms of skills requirements, in terms of foster homes, etc. And so on, because this is a field that we're working hard on.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e737	I think the minister just has to figure out that the opposition is going to follow very closely whether he is following up the request decision to prioritise ideal rather than commercial actors in child protection. That being said, today in this row change, we have been made clear that all parties believe that what is being worked on in child protection is not good enough, and that we have to do more. There it rests a strong and heavy responsibility on the minister and on the others. One area that has not been taken very much into account is the foster home problem. We're in the Center Party, we're going to get $5 million. Extra kroner for that. But here's a lack of recruitment, and there's also a big challenge that you have a little bad conditions, many think. It has been argued that we should soon regulate the situation for both families and foster home children. We in the Center Party are very interested in looking into this. We believe that it will help to recruit and conditions for the foster families. What does the minister mean?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e747	Thank you very much for a very important question. I'm glad the opposition's coming along. I think we need an impatient opposition, an impatient magnification, to succeed in the best possible child protection. Foster homes are a very important part of that work too, because one knows that it is where most of the children live when one has to go to the step of taking care of it. I guess that's just about. 900 who live in an institution. Not long ago there came a NOU attached to foster homes. There we are doing very well, and as the representative points out, the conditions you get as foster parents are one of the important points. It says – speaking of the public/private discussion that is – that the conditions are much better for the private sector. We must also work on this when municipalities are to assume greater responsibility through the child protection reform of 2022. But I would like to stress that what I get a lot of feedback on, and that I am very concerned about, is the follow-up and guidance of foster homes. Taking on the important, big task requires that the public do very well, so that one gets the help one needs in order to remain foster parents, and that the children should not have to switch home.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e758	It's a critical state of child protection. For almost a year, employees have been calling for warnings about low crewing. The Children's Ombudsman is shocked. And not least from what the children themselves report, only one of four children tells child protection about the most important thing. Nevertheless, the State Council is moving Rupstad out and saying that it is going so much better that there is no need to come and have a statement on this matter here in Stortinget. But then I wonder: How does the Minister for Children really know? How can the Minister for Children know that things are going better when, according to what the children themselves say, three out of four don't tell about the most important thing about child protection because they don't feel safe? Can the Minister for Children stand in this room and say: Yes, I know that the children are better off and that the children themselves agree with that description?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e765	When I said that there are things that go better in Norwegian child protection, it's because the indicators show it. And then I pointed out especially when it came to research, that one went from – I think it was – 19 pst. deadline of 7 pst. failure to comply with time limits in the last few years. I think that is positive. I also showed that the follow-up of foster homes, where foster homes themselves say that they experience good follow-up, has increased in recent years – now I don't quite remember the numbers in my head. It has not been said that everything is better in child protection, but it must be legal for the employees who do a hard job every day, also to get the positive messages, and that a person speaks out the positive they do. That is why I am very pleased that there is a higher annual growth in the number of employees under this government than under SV and under the red-green government. The municipalities are concerned about this, and when, for example: gives local authorities the task of discussing the situation and the state of their child protection every year, I hope and believe that they take an even greater responsibility, and that this will also mean that municipal child protection will be even better.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e774	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e779	Equality does not come about by itself, and the equality struggle cannot be taken once and for all, it must be fought all the time. After six years of right-wing governance, we see Norway reverting to more equality indicators, no new initiatives have been taken, and many of the instruments that have made us one of the world's most equal countries are cut. The abortion law has been amended, women have had less determination of their own bodies at home. While we also see that countries by country around us are attacking women's reproductive health, here in Norway we should have been a lighthouse opposing. The working party will go another way. Equality policy is a very central part of our struggle for freedom, and the challenges are many. Many women continue to experience unfreedom in working life as part-time employees or temporary employees. It's the women who are being harassed at work. Metoo must be continued. We must shake the foundations of the ordinary working life where the ladies on the floor work. The glass stack still exists. It's men who reach the top. Fewer women do. But more important than the glass roof is that very many girls – but also boys – are refused to participate in the Community arenas we take as a matter of course. They live with glass walls around them, they are subjected to social control. We know that the netness is flourishing. It threatens our democracy, and in particular girls and women, women, to participate in the public change of words because of this. In countries around us, the rights of women and minorities are being attacked by anti-feminist and anti-LHBTI groups. There has been no greater need for a strong gender equality policy, either at home or in foreign and development policy for a long time. Nevertheless, we see that the right-wing government chooses a backward attitude, an attitude that makes things start going in the wrong direction, as well as that it cuts in and cuts out things that work. Earlier in the debate, representatives of the government parties scrambled the cash support. Yes, this government prioritizes the cash support, despite the fact that after report from sample by sample, the report repeatedly states that cash support creates only poorer integration, it weakens the working line, and it weakens equality. It's just the Christian People's Party that doesn't take this into account. It was also mentioned that the Workers' Party cuts in the one-off carpentry. No, the Workers' Party doesn't cut into the one-off social welfare bill, we're not in on the one-off social security bill. But the Workers' Party has a completely different approach to welfare policy than the current government. We believe in universal services, not cash benefits that can lock people in – out of work. In our overall approach, we have cheaper kindergartens, cheaper SFOs and free school meals, and we also have a policy that gives extra support to the students who had to choose to have children while they were studying. We're going to spend a little bit on the base of 1 billion. kr on equality in our budget: full-time working life so that more women become economically independent, tripartite cooperation for equality, full-time employment, work against social control. We want to strengthen the LHBTI organisations, which are working in counterwind. They must receive our support. Tomorrow we shall discuss more broadly, but it is today's debate that shows the willingness of the various parties to act, whether they are willing to bet on those who celebrate in the celebrations, for example. under Pride. These organisations and the awareness-raising work they are now doing, the work they are doing in informing and building knowledge about gender and sexuality inequalities, are being countered. Yes, it is countered by forces and parties that actually sit in government. It's nice that the council says he doesn't know about this, but his own party and the local party in Hammerfest have reported Hammerfest municipality because they run the Rosa Competence Course. This may sound a little tardy, but this is the case in Norway in 2019. So we can't rest in the equality game. Unfortunately, the gender equality policy is now, in its seventh year, at rest. You need a shift.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e800	Norway is one of the world’s least diverse countries. In fact, there has been an increase in the last few decades, for example: as a result of increased immigration. At the same time, fewer and fewer of them report material deficiencies in Norway. The SSB figures show that changes in taxes on wealth are not what have affected the inequality. What has led to the inequality or increased it weakly are tax changes that are widely agreed upon in the Storting. The biggest difference in Norway is between those who have a job and those who do not. Then we have to make sure that more people come into the labour market by focusing on knowledge and skills. Increased taxes do not solve these challenges. SV's budget is just a recipe for fewer jobs. It's a party that loves to spend money, while they have little understanding that values have to be created before they can be shared. SV increases taxes by 23 billion. kr. At the same time, the representative will state freely that children and young people in poor families will have a safer everyday life and a better growth with their budget. I don't think it's just to take a little bit of Møller's tran, but to swallow the whole bottle. Work is the best way to get out of poverty, and then we have to create jobs, not put chains in the wheels of businesses across the whole country. Children growing up in low-income families must have the same opportunities and the same freedom to create their own future as everyone else. They will have good care, live safely, establish stable friendships, have hope and feel valuable in society. We see that families with immigrant backgrounds and lone parents make up the majority of those who live with persistent low incomes. We need to ensure that those who come to Norway are well integrated. The most important thing we can do for these children is to make sure that your parents get to work as soon as possible. We've done, and we do, a lot. We increased child welfare for all children for the first time in 20 years in March, and now we're increasing it again. Until next year, we'll start trials with free-time card schemes for children from the age of 6 to the age of 18 in even more different municipalities. National grant scheme for the inclusion of children and young people contributing to the participation of families in holiday and leisure activities has increased by about 200 million. kr since 2014. Funds are provided for the introduction of a national moderating scheme with income-graded payment in the school leisure system and funds for free SFOs for pupils with special needs of 5 to 7 years. steps. The housing aid for families with children and other large households increased by 126 million. kr in 2019. This results in a full year effect of 225 million. in 2020. The regional investment in vulnerable urban areas is also going on in 2020, and we allocate 215 million. kr for actions within this field. Government Parties are committed to achieving the objectives of the Leisure Declaration. This requires good cooperation across organisations and sectors, both locally and nationally. In the light of this, government parties are asking for an amendment to the legislation of the grant scheme in order to ensure support for better national coordination. Equipment library is another good measure. I myself agreed to facilitate the opening by the Church of the City Mission in its time of the Tax Chamber in Moss. I want to remind Stortinget that the government parties have asked the directorate to assess whether equipment centres run by non-governmental organisations can receive operating support through today's schemes. With this in mind, we will await this investigation before we make any changes to the legislation and adopt a stepping-up plan for support. The sum of this is what the representative Kari Henriksen in the financial debate called a disassembly of the welfare state, where we break it down into pieces and make it incomprehensible, alien and incomprehensible. I'm saying it's accurate measures that help those who need it, instead of lubricating thinly outwards and in reality maybe not help any of those who need it the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e828	Norway is one of the world's most equal countries. The difference between men and women was smaller in 2018 than it was in 2017. We're moving in the right direction. We still have major challenges, but we're far from being back. This government has now completed the third division of parental leave and over 92 pst. of all 1 to 5 year-olds now in kindergarten. But we still have a very gender-based labour market. It is too slow to create a more equal labour market, and it creates gender differences in pay, working hours, development opportunities and careers. During 2020, we will work together with the social partners for a strategy for a more equal education and labour market. The government has also received NOW 2019:19 Jenterom, boyroom and opportunity room, where a sample has gone through the gender equality challenges among children and young people. We're now sending the NOU to the hearing, and after that we're also going to work on a strategy for a more equal reality for boys and girls. Norway is one of Europe’s best countries in terms of policies and rights for LHBTIQs. The government's aim is to create an open, secure and diverse society, and it is also the framework of the government's plan for a biased society. We have started work on a comprehensive living conditions survey for skews in Norway, and it is expected to be completed next year. The policies for people with disabilities shall be based on equality, human rights, maritime law, democracy and inclusion. A major communication on human rights for people with disabilities is planned to be presented in spring 2020, and already in the government's draft budget for next year, it is set at 1.5 million. SEK to TV BRA, a web-TV channel by and for the developmentally impaired. TV BRA is an important actor to make people with developmental disabilities visible. On Tuesday 3 December, a new action plan on gender equality for people with disabilities was presented. It follows up the Strategy A Society for All, presented in 2018. The government proposes in the State budget for 2020 that an additional 7 million be set aside. to follow-up of the action plan to strengthen knowledge of the rights in this field, especially in municipalities. Negative attitudes to and prejudices against different ethnic and religious minority groups and discrimination in different social arenas are well documented. In recent times, there has also been a trend towards a tougher climate for debate. It is worrying and unacceptable. Racism and discrimination create fear and distrust and prevent inclusion. The government will launch a new action plan against racism and ethnic and religious discrimination. In addition, we are working to develop indicators on the discrimination and gender equality situation of ethnic minorities in Norway. It's important to have good tools against sexual harassment. The government will ensure effective enforcement of cases of sexual harassment and therefore establishes a low threshold for the treatment of cases of sexual harassment under the Equality and Discrimination Act. We also strengthen the obligation of activity and reporting, which means that all employers should try to prevent harassment, sexual harassment and gender-based violence at work. Employers will also be obliged to document this from 1 January next year. The Government proposes to increase the appropriations allocated to the Discrimination Board and the Equality Ombudsman by 3 million in the State budget for 2020. NOK, just to follow up this work. Working for equality is good policy. It's smart to do, and that's right to do. It's right to do it for individuals, but also for society. That's why we have to work all the time to get better. I would like to thank the Committee for many good contributions in the field of equality and discrimination.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e849	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e854	As mentioned in my post, anti-feminist and anti-LHBTI forces are winning terrain around us. Women's rights are restricted – minorities are threatened. We also see here at home that the LHBTI movement is under attack. In recent times, among other things, we politicians at Stortinget – probably representatives of the government as well – received a number of emails and letters from Christian conservatives who believe that children should not learn about gender identity and different sexual orientations, i.e. diversity, school and kindergarten. Hammerfest Municipality has even been reported by the Christian People's Party locally for facilitating the Rosa competence course for the FRI. For those who don't know what it is, public employees and enterprises are training in gender and sexuality inequalities and are funded by the Health Directorate, Education Directorate, Buffdir and the Police Directorate. The Workers' Party has proposed more money for Rosa's competence. What does the Minister for Gender Equality think that the Christian People's Party locally reports a municipality in order to facilitate learning and diversity?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e861	I think that's very stupid. I think these are projects that are good -- good for lifting all the kids who live in these breaks, and good for strengthening the individuals it's about. That's exactly why we in the government have now presented new curricula where this has been focused. As Minister of Gender Equality, I am very pleased that all the objections and recordings that came from the biased movements have been included in the work on curricula, because we're going to have a school that makes everyone, no matter what identity you grow up with, get the opportunity to evolve and become a complete human being based on who you are.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e866	I share the pleasure of the Council of State that this with gender and sexuality diversity is finally in place in the new curricula, because it looked dark for a while. It was the case that the LHBTI organisations involved had to protest loudly and publicly, because in the last draft it was not in place. Then it came into place, but a lot of people have wondered what happened here -- whether there are forces in the government that really wouldn't have this into the curriculum. Now it's in place, but it wasn't obvious. I am also pleased that the Minister for Gender Equality is taking away from the fact that the Christian People's Party has locally notified the municipality of Hammerfest to facilitate children's learning about diversity in school. But this is the problem of today's government. We have an equality minister who is liberal, but we have other forces in the government, for example. The Minister for Children and Family Affairs, who is also sitting here, would rather not talk about all this. He belongs to a party where there is at least a difference between life and learning – in what the party does locally, and what the government thinks is central. Does the Minister for Equal Opportunities understand that this creates uncertainty and inequality among those involved in LHBTI policies locally?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e874	As Minister of Coordination in this field, I have not seen it as very difficult, so perhaps people are not as bad as the Workers' Party believes. Secondly, there were no forces in the government that tried to stop the grips that the government has taken. It was the government, on the other hand, that intervened against a bureaucracy that wanted to minimize the curriculum. I realize that many of the disciplines we've had wanted curriculums that weren't so extensive. But this was a political act that the government took because we wanted to strengthen the rights of the curriculum.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e879	I appreciate the Minister's direct answer to some of these questions, and I hope you can continue with that. Now I'm going to ask you something that I honestly wonder about. The Centre Party and the Left share a common equality case, namely the introduction of autonomous father exclamation rights. We mark it in the budget, but so far it has no budgetary implications. Nevertheless: We understand that it is difficult – the left has it in its program, we have it in our program. The Minister is sitting around the government table and will talk about this, which is a major equality measure for men. What's the reason why we can't get it introduced, and when do you think we can do it?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e888	The President will take note of the fact that all speeches are to be made through the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e893	Thank you for the question. This is a question that we actively work with in the government to find good solutions – strictly under the responsibility of the Minister for Children and Family Affairs – and we have been instructed by our European partners who sometimes move us in the right direction towards a more free, liberal and open society. We may need to find solutions with the legislation we have in Europe in this field. I hope that we get to the important concept of equality it is to have maritime exit rights, but how we're going to do it, we have to get back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e898	When I came out of the famous closet myself, I was quite optimistic, I felt that things were moving forward. But in the last few years, I have to admit that I've become a little more uncertain, for example. when we have a situation where people are knocked down right on the outside here, right behind this house, because they're sloppy, on the same day as the Pride parade, but also when VG can reveal extensive social control in religious environments. I'm not going to ask about homotherapy right now, but I'm going to ask about the good cancers in the religious environments that need our help, like Salam, the Organisation for Discreet Muslims. They are at the forefront of this struggle and need our help. Nevertheless, they are not supported by this government, which means that they are now putting down their school visits. Is the Council satisfied with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e905	No, it's not satisfied with the council. That is why we are now working on finding a solution that means that Salam should qualify to seek support through the Bufdir systems, as all the other non-profit organisations do. I hope we'll find solutions to that, because they're doing a very good job. We are impressed by the voluntary efforts they have made, and we think they should qualify to apply with the others. We're working on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e910	Thank you to the Council of State for that answer. I really hope that such a solution comes. SV has proposed an additional allocation in this year's budget, and I would like Salam to be given the same priority by the government. This is not an isolated problem that concerns only the fantastic effort of Salam. Many organisations in the LHBTI field report that they have more to do because there is a backlash. And then there are also new organizations, in new fields, fortunately. Then I wonder: in such a situation, with more to do, unfortunately, but with more organizations, fortunately – how should the pot that has now stood still extend to ensure that all the good, mind-creating work can actually come forward, so that we can turn the backlash into new optimism, which I knew a few years ago?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e919	We haven't cut these pots. You've had normal wage and price increases, and you're not sloping ABE-cuts, some of which are very anxious about, in these pots. But I also see that the organisations get more work to do. It's important for us to support the volunteer organizations, because we think they have something special to do in this field. So we're working on finding good arrangements for the volunteer organizations. We have also taken over the special situation Salam is in, and we hope that we might get to do something about it before Christmas is called in.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e926	Then the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e931	It's rare in a steady stream of important and unimportant news that things hit us in the middle of the diaphragm. But when we last Monday saw the reports from Tromsø where a mother and three kids were found lifeless in the health, it was as if everything stopped, and the blood in the years was as cold as the water in which the four lay. The matter shook us all in the heart because we feel so intense that there is no more important task for individuals or for a society than to make sure that our kids are safe, that a mother is safe, that a family is well. And even though we don't know what happened, or what's behind, we feel that we too are failing, because we feel that it's not just an individual responsibility, but a shared responsibility that everyone is safe. I am sure that the Council of State from the Christian People's Party feels the same way, I am sure that the representatives from the Right and the Advance Party feel the same way. This is something that connects us as human beings because it goes to the core of being in common with others. That's not all we can prevent, and that's not all we can understand, but when such things wake us up from everything else, immaterial, we think, could we find some areas that weren't about political conflict and games, but where together we made a promise to make sure that everyone in Norway was safe? When there are things we can't prevent and can't do anything about, it's all the more important that we use the cancers on what we can actually do with. In Norway, more than 9 000 children are under the care of the community. That's 50 pst. more than 15 years ago, and there will be 1,500 new each year. How do we take care of the children that we have decided to care for the community? Indeed, according to a study published by the Norwegian Institute of Urban and Regional Research in the mid-first decade of the 2000s, covering the years 1990–2002, the mortality rate among child-restraint children is much higher than among children. In this period, 702 children – 114 died only in the last year. The number of child-restraint suicides is eight times that of other children. Children we take care of are therefore less secure and have less survival than those we have not taken responsibility for. The fundamental principle is that all persons under the care of the State are in a particularly vulnerable position and that the authorities have a special duty to protect these people. I saw that actually.no had checked these numbers in 2019 and found that they were right, but the most eye-catching thing was that actually.no did not find any new numbers. There were no statistics since 2001 that showed how the child-restraint children were doing. I checked Bufdir's pages, and there was a lot about relief measures, the number of care take-overs, the number of foster homes, the number of care messages, the lack of parental skills, etc., and then there were some statistics on the completion of education, but otherwise there was not much going on about the results of the efforts we are doing. I found that very strange. 15 years ago this room unanimously decided to ensure that all young people in Norway would have kindergarten. Since then, the number of kindergartens has ranged from 139 000 full-time to 268 000. It's a double. We've given 130,000 more children kindergartens. It cost 15 billion. kr. The Children's Guards don't ask about 15 billion. kr. They're not asking about 1 billion. kr. For me, it's not important whether we get together on the 200 mill of the Workers' Party. SEK, SVs 250 million. kr or the 150 mill of the Centre Party. kr. For me, the important thing is that this hall could once again united unanimously on saying: Let's make sure that all kids in Norway are safe, independent of family, regardless of growth, regardless of background. Because if we don't succeed, and this continues, it's not because of accidents and deaths that we don't understand or cannot explain, it's because of ourselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e944	During the budgetary procedure, the Centre Party has noted that there is a growing need to strengthen the staffing of municipal child protection. I'm very much in agreement with the Center Party, but I think we have a little bit of different means to achieve this goal. We take seriously that many municipal child protection services face capacity challenges. The government is closely following child protection, and we in the government parties are to ensure that the quality and the manpower situation are assessed regularly, both in each municipality and at national level. Since 2014, we have increased the funding for municipal child protection by nearly 200 million. kr. This corresponds to 285 new posts. There were also 1,300 more annual works in municipal child protection from 2013 to 2018. In addition, the SSB figures from 2018 suggest no growth in cases, which provides better conditions for the work done with the individual child and family. Some of this increase is due to earmarked funds, but much of it is due to stronger priorities in municipalities. This has helped the government by providing an increased financial framework for municipalities. I believe that local politicians are best placed to make assessments of the need for staffing. They are best able to prioritize resources and actions where the need and benefits are greater. I believe that the increase in annual work shows just that – that ringing is not always the best way to get more jobs in total. In addition, more jobs themselves are not sufficient to provide children with the help they need. As a result, the government has given priority to improving the quality of municipal child protection, among other things. through the competence initiative and the DigiBarnevern project. The digital promise shall give employees more time to follow up on the individual child and family. The centre party and the Workers' Party have been eager to criticise private actors in child protection. Where these parties talk down an important part of our child protection, I am for a diversity of suppliers. Privates do an important job for both the state and municipalities in terms of child protection. In the Granavolden platform, we are also clear that we want to strengthen the ideal position in particular. For it is not so important who offers the service as long as the offer is good. Of course, it's the public that has the top responsibility for child protection, it's firm, but we're going to use private actors in a good way as long as the service they're offering is good enough. Tasks involving the exercise of public authority may not be delegated to private persons unless specified in specific law. That is why this is not a problem. However, municipalities may be assisted by private actors in some cases — under the active management and management of the child protection manager. Once again, the municipality and the public are responsible. This is not a matter of ideological complaint. It's about giving the kids the best possible offer. Nor is it a matter of public responsibility to discharge itself, for that is our responsibility at all times. It is a matter of making use of these services under a strict regime in order to provide a good offer to child-restraint children. In its alternative budget, the Central Party is making a huge cut in both state and private child protection. I think that's the wrong direction to go in. Because although it is important for the public to have overall responsibility, it must be possible to have several thoughts in your head at the same time. To ensure that there is such diversity in the offer, I want to strengthen the ideal suppliers. It is at the heart of the Granavolden platform, and we are now assessing how this should be followed up, as a result of the Storting's request decision. Child protection is undoubtedly an important field of action for this government, but we are not yet satisfied. This is why we have been committed to – and will continue to bet on – raising our skills. That's why we're increasing the framework of the municipalities, and that's why we're lifting the ideal child protection. For only this can we get the child protection lifted to what we want.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e968	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e973	Child protection needs to be improved. The centre party will strengthen family protection to prevent and help families. The protection of children shall contribute to secure conditions of growth for children and young people. Norway has a proud tradition of taking care of and protecting children, including: with the introduction of the world's first child law and the establishment of the world's first children's representative. There is good child protection in today’s Norway, which helps and supports families and children with challenges. But there is also poor child protection, which can do harm. The aim must be to develop a safe and high-quality child protection for the future, which has confidence in the population. Elections must be able to follow up the statutory tasks. The batch of centres will strengthen the Community solutions. We believe that the responsibility and operation of important welfare services should remain with municipalities and county municipalities, and believe that the widespread use of child protection tenders is unfortunate. There's a need for a reinforced crew in municipal child protection, and we're prioritizing 150 million. kr to it in our alternative state budget. In several places, there is too much pervasiveness and too much sick leave, too much work pressure, and too much time to deal with. This affects the quality, working environment and the ability to provide good and sound services. The Joint Organisation and the Children’s Ombudsman have reiterated the need for more child protection. It is therefore incomprehensible that the government does not take these signals seriously. In their proposal for the 2020 budget, there are few measures to improve the situation, and in Langedahl's logic here from the pulpit now has the Central Party more than 4.4 billion. kr to the municipal sector, where much can be attributed to child protection. But it's not that simple. We know that a high proportion of children with child protection measures suffer from mental illness and have a complex need for healthcare. At the same time, there are signs that the offer is too poor. The central party believes that mental health care in child protection needs to be strengthened, and has submitted a representative proposal on the matter. Furthermore, the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights as well as the feedback of the United Nations Children’s Committee, the National Audit Office, the Health Inspectorate and the Change Factory make it clear that more action is needed. These include, in particular, the involvement of children, the competence of child protection, the management of emergencies, interaction with other facilities and the quality of child protection institutions. Children in child protection experience too many movements, unnecessary use of coercion, widespread use of exclusive measures and lack of health measures. The government parties must recognise criticism that is professionally anchored, with the intention of strengthening and improving our child protection. The proposal for a new Children’s Protection Act does not carry out a comprehensive examination of professional status, and it will be followed up by the Centre Party. We believe that political initiative must be taken for an overall and professional review.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e988	Children in child protection have the same right to the necessary health care as other children. It is well documented that a large proportion of children with child protection measures also have a high incidence of mental illness and a combined need for services. Research shows that three out of four children and young people in child protection institutions and half of the children in foster homes suffer from mental disorders. There are clear indications that the health supply to this group is inadequate. There have been some positive things. There shall be child-responsors in mental health protection for children and young people; all child-responders shall have their own health care provider; the ambulance team shall have been strengthened and separate child-care institutions established. But this is not enough. The NOU proposal for a new Child Protection Act states that child protection providers lack competence to assess the medical needs of the child. Children may not be shown any further when they are supposed to. Treatment schedules are cancelled due to multiple shifts, and there are no 24 hours in the BUP. So this is going to be rewritten in the NOU. Missing daily places in paediatric psychiatry are harmful for children in child protection. There has been a marked decline in daily space in the BUP since 2013. Mari Trommald, director of Bufdir, said to VG in the fall that one reason for the increase in the one-off measures is that there is a lack of daily treatment in the BUP. Severely mentally ill children thus have one measure in child protection – sick children are at risk of being protected because health services fail. The centre party has submitted proposals that all children should have a health examination by taking care of them. In our budget, we're adding 20 million. kr to strengthen the provision of BUPs to children in the protection of their children. One thing that has been done in the debate in the fall is to show the new child protection reform as an answer to the challenge of today's child protection. This reform voted against the Central Party in Stortinget. The reform will help to increase the commercialisation of child protection and to increase the responsibility for the payment of foster homes and higher ownership by municipalities using institutional facilities. They call it full price differentiation, and economic incentives for child protection should be the solution. VG's mapping of the interaction reform has shown that this is not working. Minister of Health Höie is going in to liquidate economic incentives in health services. This will never be the solution or rescue for Norwegian child protection. I am highly sceptical about the new child protection reform in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1001	As both the President and the Chamber may understand, we in the Central Party have become very concerned with child protection lately. However, under this framework in the budget, there are also many other important issues, such as: equality and family policy. I would therefore like to say a little more about parental leave and self-taxation rights for father, and why I think it is so important. In the case of the Centre Party, the aim is to increase the father’s association with the child during the parental leave period. The parent quota is important, and if the extended spring quota is to have the desired effect, which is more equal and shared responsibility for the children, the father must be granted an autonomous right of withdrawal for paper issue. As it is now, father loses the right to take out parental leave if mother is not in activity. There is discrimination and discrimination against danger. For 2020, the Central Party has proposed to introduce autonomous exit rights in its alternative budget from 1 September 2020. It will not have budgetary implications for 2020, says the Ministry of Finance, but we still want it included in the budget paper. I also need to talk a little bit about consumer policy in this budget debate. The consultation on the Consumer Notice showed that there are many issues to address to us politicians, issues that should perhaps have had much more political attention, both in terms of how our consumption can contribute to achieving our climate goals to a greater degree, and in terms of consumer rights in the future. These, I hope, are well promised by the Committee, preferably part of them in common, when the Consumer Notice is to be addressed in the new year. In any case, the Central Party proposes 3 million in its alternative budget. kr for reinforced efforts to counter aggressive marketing of consumer loans. I recall that a unanimous increase decided that the government would come back with proposals to ban aggressive marketing of consumer loans by autumn 2018. Unfortunately, the government has not followed up this decision. That's a shame, as debt developments in Norwegian households are alarming. We spend a lot of money we don't have. It's not economically sustainable. According to figures from the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority, Norwegians had a consumption loan of about 117 billion. kr in 2018. The market for consumer credit has increased dramatically in recent years, and supervision by the Financial Supervision of Leading Consumer Loan Banks shows that compliance with the legislation is too weak. We need more accurate regulation and increased efforts to reduce the growth of consumer loans, which I hope and believe in the Centre Party is not just about fighting for in the new year, during this treatment of consumer communications, as we are in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1012	For SV it is important that we see all children and take responsibility for them. We have now received a child minister who says that he will fight with beaks and scratches against something that does not exist, while it has, for example, be very quiet about the Norwegian children sitting in the Al-Hol camp, who can't do anything for them to sit there, and as the government collectively does everything they can – it looks like – that they won't get any help. Many lone minors come to Norway and are discriminated against. Norway’s national human rights institution and the United Nations say that we are breaking our obligations by not providing care for these children and young people under child protection, as Norwegian children do without parents and guardians. I do not see that neither the government nor the Minister for Children care very much about us breaking our obligations here. I see a government that systematically goes after the most disadvantaged families, with unsocial cuts that kick the legs away from the parents who try as hard as they can to get the ends to meet. Some of them are lone carriers, or unique ones, which I think we should actually call them, because I'm so impressed with what many of them get. But the government is systematically making it more difficult for them all the time by tightening up the necessary arrangements to make them better, and for their kids to be better off. On the contrary, we have a government that promotes competition in all areas. We had a school debate here the other day, and it sounds like you just think you're competing more and more, the kids born with rock in the shoe are going to be able to run faster than the others. It's not like that. Child welfare is very important. I was happy when the Christian People's Party managed to lift the child's fear a little bit, but it's expensive to have bigger kids too. And the terrible system we have today, that the municipalities can shorten the social assistance for child welfare, stands at hand. It does not help that the government has raised the indicative rates, because they do not need to be taken into account by the municipality. SV will make proposals that the law needs to be amended so that increases in child welfare benefit the poorest families of children. That is why we have added money to this in our municipal budget. Finally, some of the children are disabled. The government presented an action plan on universal design and equality — without deadlines, not even for schools to be universally designed, and for all children to have the same right to attend their secondary school. Yeah, I'm disappointed in this child minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1029	I would like to add some comments to this debate. I'd like to start with what Freddy André Supreme Court said in his line-up with the Council of State, and it was insecure. It's not the first I've met in Norway lately that points to greater uncertainty and greater uncertainty. Insecurity is linked to who you are, or to having another ethnicity, coming from another country. It is worrying when we in a country experience that people become insecure because they are who they are, and that more people express it. As far as child protection is concerned, I would like to say that every day there are children who experience a great deal of insecurity. Every day, there are children in Norway that the community does not have the ability to take care of. It's serious. That's really serious. There is no shortage of challenges. I've been standing here on this pulpit before and listed a bunch of them, and then I spent almost three minutes. I'm not going to do that right now. I'm just going to repeat that the Children's Ombudsman in a hearing described it as a political governance crisis. I feel that the Council of State is trying to decorate it by saying that we do not want to talk about the employees who do a good job. Well, we want to talk about the employees who do a good job, and we talk about them all the time. We have them on the team. The cheerleaders, trade unions and children in child protection tell us that they need more people, because they know what insecurity is. We don't need a index finger saying that the municipalities are responsible. Political governance is well placed with the Council of State. The taskbar was mentioned. I was challenged that work was the only gratifying thing in this country. Fortunately, I have representatives from both the Progress Party, the Right and the Left who have pointed out exactly the same thing. The representative Heimdal was worried about the cut that happens overnight. Well, then I just want to refresh the memory of the government parties. The Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness was cut by 10 million. NOK, the blind phone and the library for the blind were cut by 3 million. kr, The Consumer Council will be cut by 5 million this year. kr. Not a single warning. It's this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1042	It was as if a guss went from the 1980s through the hall below the post to one of the previous speakers. That speaker was the representative Tage Pettersen, who made an article on SV's policy to help more families out of poverty. The funky 1980s feeling I got from that post was thoughts of trickle down economy, getting criticism from the representative Pettersen that our tax system will prevent more people from getting out of persistent low incomes. He pointed out that the government's tax credits for the richest are the most important to help more children out of persistent low income. I really thought that kind of voodoo economy for the longest time was buried. I thought that the idea that just we give more to the richest would magically run down to the children who grow up in poverty, was no longer valid. Yet, that is what we hear from the pulpit. I can mention to the representative Pettersen that in our tax bill, everyone who earns less than NOK 600 000 is actually taxed with SV's policy. Then we increase the taxes for those who have the most, so that we can use it, for example. to introduce parental leave to all – a real investment in the first year of life of the child. I also have to say something about equality. We're still in a situation where it's like women on average make 87 kroner for every 100 bills a man earns. Sexual harassment hinders women's opportunities in working life, and negative social control particularly affects the freedom of young girls. At the same time, we have a government that makes itself historic – it makes itself historic as the very first in 40 years that restricts women's right to self-determined abortion. Then it's time for a real shift in gender equality policy, and it outlines SV in its alternative budget, where we spend about one billion dollars in gender equality measures. This applies, inter alia, to: 50 million. kr for action against negative social control. It is about resolving the unsustainable situation with regard to the financing of crisis centres, where there is now a risk of closure in several places. The low-threshold services at which victims of violence are likely to go are at risk of being put at risk. We're proposing a change of that. And we also propose several hundred million dollars in increase for better manning – and full time – for the heroes who are at the forefront of our well-being, who are often women.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1051	For the Progress Party, cooperation between healthcare and child protection is a very important topic. Children and young people who are under the care of child protection must have both physical and mental health, and then we have obligations to do so. Unfortunately, we also know that some of these children and young people have problems related to alcohol. Ensuring good health services for children in the field of child protection is a high priority of this government. Of course, children and young people with child protection measures should have exactly the same right to necessary health care as other children. Nevertheless, we know that the cooperation between child protection and health is still not good enough, and I think we should be honest with that. Children and young people in child protection are not adequately identified for their health care needs and the need for help is not identified, it is difficult to impose the necessary or proper treatment. It's been important to do something about it. In order to ensure that children in child protection receive more and better mental health care, the government has worked at several levels to find good solutions. Among other things, there is a process of interaction between child protection and the BUP, but they also want to strengthen the presence of outpatient BUP teams in child protection institutions, and these play an important role both in providing treatment where children and young people live and in providing guidance to employees in child protection institutions. Last week, state councils opened Robstad Lunde treatment centre, which illustrates just how the government rates and wants to get at a good offer there – this because we want to provide services that provide children and young people with the help they need, where they are and where they live, and that adapt to children and young people and their needs – and just not the opposite. The government is taking several steps. We strengthen cooperation between child protection and healthcare in order to ensure rapid monitoring and treatment of mental and drug problems for children who need it. We provide better access to mental health care at child protection institutions. And we increase the competence of child protection in healthcare. Children and young people in child protection must receive the assistance they need, whether from child protection, health care or other public services. We have to admit that we may not be quite in goal, but I think the government is doing a good job on everything it has started up with, and the way forward. We are now working with full strength to strengthen the safety networks of children.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1068	I am pleased that in this debate we have raised the issue of child protection. Child protection is important. There shall be a safety net and measures for the children who need it, and not least families. But I want to stay a little while with the representative Henriksen, who says that the government is abstinence from a crisis of child protection. I believe the Workers' Party needs a reality orientation and needs to follow up on what is actually being done. Yes, we may disagree on some measures, but we have challenges, and the government is taking it seriously. I'll repeat some of the measures. In this budget, municipalities have received a continuation of the designation of posts and municipalities have improved the framework. In fact, there have never been so few municipalities on the ROBEK list as now. The municipal economy also gives priority to child protection workers. Yes, we may disagree on whether or not jobs should be earmarked, but this is not about abdication. Local authorities have also been provided with the means to enhance the competence of those working in the field of child protection, and not least the competence to develop different models of how to interact between child protection employees and the families in need of help. This competence concerns several areas. This applies in the area of legal competence, competence in understanding other cultures, competence in looking at how to deal with relationships between parents and children, and how to recognise problems at home. Foetal parents should also receive more support. They need that, and we're totally dependent on recruiting good foster parents. We also set up our own institutions for children with special needs and for children with complex needs. The representative Heimdal mentioned the Lunde treatment centre. We're also working on a new law on child protection. This is not to abdidate; this is to have measures that we believe should make child protection better for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1083	In this debate, the opposition has made a number of allegations about the government's equality policy that I want to spend a few minutes addressing. It is claimed that there is no new initiative by this government in this area. It falls on its own unfairness only with several of the things that have been mentioned in this debate. We can look at what the government has done on parental leave, what we do on higher education just to ensure equal access, and what we do, for example, in the area of sexual harassment, where we have established a low-threshold offer that I know several parties in this committee have been engaged in. We're also giving money to initiatives like Balance Art, which are helping to tackle just these challenges from grassroots, where it's doing the best. In the LHBTI area, we are also challenged that no new initiatives are taking place. It also falls on its own unreasonableness. What I'm going to give the opposition is that I share their concern about what trends we have internationally. That's exactly why, as I also replied in one of my lines earlier today, this government, among other things. was hosted by the IDAHOT conference in May of this year, where we got several of the countries that are important to promote the rights of gliding in the international arena, to commit on several points, just in order to continue to do so. This is also why this government sees Norway as having a special international responsibility for being a leading country. Even I was so lucky to be in Bogota, Columbia earlier this year after an invitation from a Norwegian embassy. There, a large conference was organized for skews from all over Latin America, just to be involved and build up and strengthen skew voices around the world. Much of the reason that there were almost a hundred trans-persons and activists at that conference was that the Norwegian Foreign Service supported this work financially. There is also a way this government shows that it is responsible. In addition, the government has invested internationally in just sexuality education, which is reflected in several of the initiatives we see at national level. Norway is a leading country in this, and we will continue to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1096	The red parties are desperately concerned that it is wrong that someone is making money on child protection. This is a trending statement. It does not in any way give a proper idea of how child protection works day by day. Let me start with the following: Is it immoral to make money to invest in child protection, but not immoral to make money to work in child protection? Does this mean that those who use their savings, perhaps a pension fund, to build, buy equipment, beds, food and anything else, are immoral and will not be allowed to receive a return on their funds? What about the craftsmen who build premises and facilities? Are they welfare professionals? And why should it be wrong to make money on child protection or other welfare services when it is not wrong to make money on investing in other businesses? Is it supposed to exclude all savings in society from being able to invest in welfare services for the benefit of most people? I understand that the Communists in Red mean it, but I'm struggling to understand that other red-green parties are doing the same thing. Even the Center Party, which insists that they are a centre party, is involved in stamping those who invest in hard-to-required child protection services, as immoral. I believe that both public, ideal and private people who want to help children and families in a life crisis will be allowed to offer their services on equal terms. Because sometimes it's actually an advantage with different starting points. We know, among other things: that foster homes in their nature are private. No one here wants foster homes exclusively made up of public servants. It has to be concluded that ideological sky posters are designed to prevent the rational use of all good offers in child protection. Because we all have a responsibility to create a better child protection here on land. It must be an objective that no day-to-day incident is to have Norway answer in child protection cases in the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. And then we certainly need all the good forces in that ministry.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1110	It's very positive that there are many representatives from several parties talking about child protection. But Johnsen is very much talking about things the government is doing, and there is no one in the room who claims that the government is doing nothing. I think the government council is engaged, I think the government is engaged, I think the individual employees of both private and public child protection institutions are engaged and are trying to do the best possible job. The thing is, however, that the job is not done. At least it is not the opposition's proposal that more of the protection of children should become public, which is the problem, because it has not been adopted. The Right Party and the Advance Party have been running for six years. It is not the opposition's suggestion that we constantly lose new cases in the European Court of Human Rights. It's the Right and Advance Party that's been running for six years. But the important thing is that this did not happen either when the Right and Advance Party took over in 2013. This is a problem that is many decades old, which we can just stop discussing who's to blame for, and rather talk about how we solve together. It's not going to be solved by 10 million. SEK or 20 million. kr – probably not solved by 200 million. I don't think so. But there is a comprehensive reform where we go through every single scheme, action, process, institution, offer and system to make sure that the kids are safe. The result is not good enough. That's what should make us say that ok, councillor Ropstad now has the entire opposition ready. We are in and out of this by unanimity if he comes to us with a real reform and says that we can do this together. I'm absolutely sure that in 5, 10, 15, or 20 years, child protection will explode in our face like a giant scandal. It's about to do it already. But then the government council is not named Anniken Hauglie, then the council is called Ropstad. I don't understand how you want to hurt yourself as bad as sitting in a chair like this that I've been sitting for almost ten years, and don't say well, come on, get all the parties, let's do this together, let's take a common lift. Maybe we've come to a society where it's the strongest right that counts. It's the lobbyists, who can tell us that we're not going to take in any of the extra profits created in the breeding industry, it's the strong donors of the election struggles, who say they can't pay any more in wealth taxes, or it's those who have the money to influence us in the hall the most, who have master degrees, speak many languages fluently, and can influence and participate in the social debate. Children's protection, Nav clients, the poorest in society have no such figures if we don't sit in this room, it's a common promise.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1123	First to the equality debate: the largest minority in Norway was waiting for an action plan from the government, and when it arrived, the disappointment was enormous. For people with disabilities, everything has been put on hold. You've just framed what he did before, and not set one deadline for them to be residents of this society on the same footing as the rest of us. I think the government should take it inward. Time limits are needed, and money has to be put on the table in order for it to become a reality. When it comes to profit in welfare, I think the difference is that we see that care and child protection are not the same as a sausage bag or a car shop. It's about care. We do not use child protection to make money on it. We work with child protection because there are some children and families who need it, and then the money we're going to grant for this, go for the purpose – preferably ideal, non-profit, but they're going to go for the purpose. The situation now is that there are no small ideal suppliers left in child protection. There are large, international groups that take out billions and build these institutions with public money. It's not the savings they invest in this. They build this up with our taxes, and they're left with a huge profit that the children under child protection would have had and the heroes who work in child protection, who deserve a good salary and a good pension. So to an area that really beats too many of the poorest children's families -- that it's been awfully expensive to live. I wonder if this committee knows how little you have to earn in the household, on average income, to get housing support – NOK 130 000 for the household! On average, these families now have NOK 93 000 in housing costs. So there are thousands of families that have fallen out of the housing system. It's true that the government has improved it a little bit for some families of children, but when we look at the numbers, they still don't close the gap between the income loss they've had and the increased boute toxins. If they get, they get less now to secure what is perhaps most important for the children, that is, to have a safe home. I understand that the child minister looks down in the desk, because he has reason for that. This is not good, and it is completely unnecessary that we should be so terribly greedy with the poorest families. They need more housing, they need more child welfare, and we need to protect their child welfare against shortening social welfare.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1134	To the representative, Wold: the centre party is concerned with the private sector in the field of child protection, but we are concerned with the private ideals of child protection, which have made a great effort historically, and which is making a great deal of effort now, but which does not tolerate the competition and supply policies under this government. So to the representative, Hemdal, who is very much concerned with children in child protection and their needs and demands for health care. I understand that as a member of a government party, I have to find out what was actually done, and I also said in my post that something has been done. My point is that I don't see that the Storing or Government takes the seriousness of the situation out there, with an incredibly great need for a system that gives all children in child protection the same right to health as other children. Viewed to the Lunde treatment centre. It's the other center that has both child protection and health under the same roof. In Lunde, there are six treatment sites. In Bodø, it's five. So we're talking about eleven places nationally. It is clear that this is a measure for those most in need. There may be good measures, but it's almost a drop in the ocean based on what's the need for all the children in child protection that we know have mental disorders. There is a stepping-up plan for mental health among children and young people – it is now on the Health Committee. The escalation plan does not address specific health care for children in the field of child protection. Nor does he deal with mental health protection. The plan got full slaughter in the earring we had. The Children's Ombudsman asked the Committee to consider returning the entire plan, as the Centre Party, the Workers' Party and the SV will do. The medical unit meant that the plan could not be called a stepping-up plan, without funds, without targets and a nice description. It's sad that it's like this, because this is an area that needs to be strengthened in general, but especially for children in child protection. It is claimed that the number of daily places has increased in paediatric psychiatry. That doesn't make sense at all. In 2013, the total number of daily seats in the BUP was 305 in Norway. In 2015, it had fallen to 247 – a 19 pst reduction. There was a slight increase in 2018, but there is still a marked decrease. This is serious, as it is one of the reasons for increasing the use of one measure. Children in child protection who need it should be treated. They're not getting them to an adequate degree today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1147	The representative, Kari Henriksen, had the word twice before and got the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1152	There was a big report about human rights lawyer Gro Hillestad Thune in the Evening Post this weekend. I just want to quote what she said in the debate at NRK when we discussed child protection. The final example of human rights lawyer Hillestad Thune was: you don't understand the seriousness. The Children’s Ombudsman has been very clear that the Minister is responsible for ensuring that the municipalities are able to carry out the tasks they delegate to the municipalities. In the financial debate, Tage Pettersen, a representative from the Right, said that we should turn more stones when it comes to child protection. Today, the representative Silje Hemdal said that we might be able to do more. It is an understatement, but we have a Council of States that will not even raise the debate in the Grand Duchy. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1159	The representative Freddy André Øvstegård has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1164	In my exchange of lines with the Council of State, Ropstad, I gave him a very concrete challenge, which was not answered. That is why, at the tame of the debate, I want to give the Council of State an opportunity to respond, because I know there are many who are concerned about this, and who are following this debate: once the Council of State has gone out and said that everything is going so much better in child protection that there is no reason to come and explain it here, there are many who wonder where he gets that information from, when only one out of four children tell about the most important thing, the most serious, to child protection because they don't feel safe. Questions are asked about whether the Minister for Children has checked the description of reality with the children. That is why I would like to ask the Council of State Rugged again whether he can answer to the Stortinget whether the children actually agree with that assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1169	Representative Silje Hemdal has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1174	The representative Toppe hung himself up in one of the very many measures I mentioned, namely, the Lunde treatment centre. I said it was one of many measures, and it is at least an important beginning. So I'm the first one to admit that in itself that's not enough. You have to have different and more services put together to help. But I'm optimistic. Now we're going to get new child law, and the work's started. I have to say that I have great expectations for a project that has been carried out by CARE, which goes among other things. to this effect with acute acquisition health monitoring. I have said that from the Progress Party we are very interested in learning more about this project and assessing what we can do with this in new child law. And at least that could be one more step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1179	No more has the floor asked for part 1 of the debate. The President will now terminate the meeting in line with previous announcements by 12 p.m. The meeting will be revisited at 9.30 a.m. 15.30 and starts with part 2 of the debate, cf. the detailed arrangements for the debate adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1200	The called alternate for Oslo, Didrik Beck, is now taking his seat. The majority is now continuing the debate on issue No. 1 and starts part 2 of the debate, part 3 of the framework, cf. the adopted procedure for the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1210	There is a broad consensus that culture should promote education, democracy and reflection. It shall be available, it shall build a community, and it shall preserve and communicate our cultural heritage. The culture shall be developed on its own premises, without State override. Culture shall be available throughout the country. Our policy is to support this, and it is therefore gratifying that for the second consecutive year, the cultural budget is increasing, and for 2020 there is an increase of 6.7 pst. The largest investment is in national buildings and museums, a total of 290 million. kr to national cultural buildings, with commitments of more than 700 million. NOK and there is an increase of 340 million. kr to museums, including funds for the new National Museum. It is gratifying that there was room for funds for, among other things, the industrial workers museum at Vemork, new premises for the Opera in Kristiansund and the Eastfold Museums, to mention something. We look forward to the announced museum message, which we expect to address part of the challenges in the museum sector, and it is digitisation and making available the collections of the museums, the role of museums in society and, above all, research efforts. Digitisation has also been promised in the budget, and funds for the Digital Archive have been increased. Similarly, there is an increased allocation to the National Library, and there is increased capacity in Mo in Rana. The Culture Communication was discussed in May, and the majority of the Stortinget agreed that the regions should be given greater tasks and responsibilities in the field of culture. It is natural since culture is built from below, and the new states must play a greater role in the organisation and support of cultural services. However, it is important to stress that tasks transferred to the regions will continue to be an important part of national cultural policy. These tasks are as important locally as they are nationally and internationally. We look forward to the artist's message being presented to Stortinget. It is a message reviewing the state's artistic policy instruments, and I expect it to contribute to the objective of strengthening good and long-term pay schemes for artists. We are also pleased that the funding for artists' scholarships in this budget is increasing by 22 million. kr, likewise Norwegian Arts Abroad receives funds to promote Norwegian art and world-class culture abroad. The government is also now working on a stage art strategy. We're familiar with concerns from dance companies who, because of the conversion of the Free Scene Art system, have been notified that they cannot receive support. I expect that further arrangements for dance companies will be mentioned in the stage art strategy, and that there will be a look at instruments that will have an impact on the entire stage art field. Freedom, equality and diversity are important in cultural life. We're prioritizing VAT compensation for volunteering, and the goal is 1.8 billion. in 2020. Since 2013, funds for this purpose have increased by a total of 750 million. kr. We also prioritise funds for the strategy for gender equality and people with disabilities and resources for diversity and diversity in cultural life. We want a lot of participation. While there should be no doubt that state funding is to be the base of culture, it is essential that individuals, businesses and civil society foundations see the value of art and culture and see the value of financial engagement. The gift-enhancing mechanism is an important instrument as an additional source of funding for culture, but also a mechanism that helps to recognise and encourage civil society’s commitment to cultural life.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1227	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1232	Volunteering is one of the best things about Norwegian society — the thousands of thousands who give of their time and resources for others to feel good. Volunteer centres are often the focal point of volunteering in most municipalities. Yeah, it's also a place that serves as a social meeting place. Now, the government has changed the funding model for the volunteer centres, incorporated it into the framework, and that means major cuts for the district municipalities – centralisation and increasing differences in this area as well. Many of the volunteers in the district municipalities are now in danger of being cut or laid off: Lesja, Nord-Odal, Kongsvinger, Tynset, Grue – I could list many municipalities, including Flesberg, Hole and Ål in the representative's own home country. What will the representative say to all those who are now at risk of losing their volunteer headquarters because of the cutback of the right-wing government?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1239	Yes, volunteering is important, and I understand that municipalities that receive a lower transfer in the framework grant than they received when it was earmarked are concerned. At the same time, the government has strengthened the local economy so that it would be possible to give priority to volunteer centres. So we also know that we have volunteer centres in the private sector, whether it's the Red Cross or there's others who also work on volunteering. Now there are actually 42 municipalities that don't have volunteer centres. They will also benefit from the 200 million now distributed.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1246	I think it's so sad that you've just decided to change this form of funding. We know that it is going to hit all the small municipalities that are now directly cut to be able to operate their volunteer headquarters. There are municipalities where collection points are rarely available at the level of a volunteer centre for them, both in terms of level of activity, integration, training and cohesion. A lot of big cities that get a lot more money for volunteers now have a lot of offers that can cover up for this. When the veterinary subsidy was amended in the same way and had to go over the municipal framework according to the population, the government understood that this was wrong and it turned around. There have been major protests. There are many who are now afraid of their volunteers and of their offer around Norway. Can the head of the Family and Culture Committee see a way of turning the government around in this case as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1253	Now it's like the volunteers don't go away. In the previous period – which was also the subject of the Workers' Party – this was wanted to be included in the framework grant, just as other schemes are intended to be included in a framework grant, and then the municipalities give priority to this. I understand the concern. At the same time, it is important that municipalities also put this on the agenda. After all, we have strengthened the municipal economy, and it is also 200 million. kr for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1260	To another part of volunteering: the tipping instruments for culture are important to fund corps, choirs, amateur theatres, housewives – yes, the whole freedom of culture, really, that engages well over one million Norwegians. But the tips for culture have been used as a balancing item. Since 2014, there have been more and more applications that do not have much to do with local foundations or cultural freedom. So it's clear that the government has needed a place to balance its budgets when it's been so low, and it's become the means. I could mention two examples, which are a little bit different. One is the gift-enhancing system, to which we are initially critical. Then I can also mention the development funds of archives, libraries and museums, which are a good order, but which do not belong in the means. Why is it that the corps, the cows and the maids are going to take the bill for the lack of priorities?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1267	I disagree with the description. I think it's natural when the framework for the drugs has actually increased, that there are several schemes that come into the drugs. There are more organisations that benefit. The representative himself mentioned the gift-enhancing scheme. In fact, we believe that by adding it to the tipping agents, we've gotten a whole lot more out of it. It's now over 300 million. kr granted to the gift-enhancing scheme, which has gone to all possible teams and organisations, not least in the representative's home country. I believe it is reasonable that we also include other arrangements into the tipping instruments, which have, after all, increased.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1276	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1281	After six years of cutting right government policy to finance tax cuts to the richest, the cultural budget in particular has suffered. Yes, the new – if I can call her new – the Culture Minister from the Left should have because she has got a small increase two years in a row, but that is not enough. During the blue-blue period, the share of the culture in the state budget has gone from 1 pst. in 2014 to 0,88 pst. in the budget of the year. That means a gap of almost 2 billion. kr that culture misses. Our main criticism of this budget is not that individual projects or items of money are missing, because it will always be. We're going to spend $600 million. kr more on culture in this budget than the government. The main criticism is that there is no agreement at all between what the government says it should do and what it actually delivers. Some examples: The government presented the cultural message and wrote that it should bet on culture. But that doesn't change the fact that most people in this right-wing period have either been silent or cut in the budget. If you put on the so-called ABE reform, which is really just a cheese match, most people get less to go with. You can't say you're going to bet on culture, and keep the ABE cuts. The government introduced the volunteering message and said it was to bet on volunteering. But in the budget, they choose to outrage the funding of volunteer agencies, and not just that – they cut 15 million. kr in the VAT compensation scheme, which a total voluntary nature considers to be the most important scheme for them. The government shall provide an artist's message, which is certainly right around the corner. A lot of people probably expected this budget to be used to strengthen the artistic economy. It doesn't happen either. The government has announced a strategy for the international cultural effort, but in this budget they choose to cut back on the main system of internationalisation of art and culture, the U.D., a system that the right-wing government has actually halved in the last six years. The government has put forward a strategy for culture and travel. In this budget, travel life is cut, cut in the money that helps to show the culture and nature of potential tourists who will experience Norway as a destination. So there's no match between what you're going to do and what you're actually doing. Cultural life cannot live by strategies, grotesque messages and fine words on a paper. The aim of the Workers' Party's cultural policy is that everyone should be able to create, exercise and experience high-quality art and culture throughout the country and regardless of who they are and how big the wallet is. Our policy of using 1 pst. of the State budget for culture is still under way. We're stepping up, and that means we're spending over 600 million. kr more than the government for cultural purposes in this budget. We give priority to culture throughout the country, lower thresholds for participation. Instead of weakening an already broken infrastructure and building down arrangements, we will build up. That is why we are proposing new regional cultural funds as a complement to the Culture Fund. We believe that artists should not be allowed to stand with lua in their hands and fight for decent conditions. We want an artist's vow, and we therefore strengthen the artist's economy with 100 new homes for artists' scholarships in addition to the government's proposal, permanent exhibition fees, increase to the actor's and dancer's alliance, support for the creation of a musician's alliance and the extension of the private copying compensation scheme, so that rightholders get the money they need. We are really strengthening volunteering. We do not follow the government's so-called escalation plan, which is already out of date, for VAT compensation, but we grant 100 million. kr extra to this in our alternative budget. We want the volunteers earmarked in the budget. We've never agreed to put them in the frame, so it was said here instead. We want to build the volunteer and not build it down. For us, volunteering centres are one of the most important things to bet on. We're going to have a cultural policy where there's a connection between what we're saying we're going to do and what we're actually doing. We have shown this in the past through the cultural promises and the cultural effort we did when we were in government, and we're going to do it again.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1307	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1312	Ever since the regional reform came, the Labour Party has criticised the government for it – that it was used, that the tasks did not come first, and then that there were not enough tasks given. I understand, of course, that the Labour Party is interested in having as many country rapporteurs as possible, and that the resistance to the reform is a consequence of it. What I do not understand, however, is the criticism of the Workers' Party now comes with, where we are criticized for giving tasks to the regions in the cultural field. To me, it seems that the representative and her party come with the usual criticism of autopilot only for the sake of criticism, when they are never satisfied with anything. So I ask the representative, if she could move something over to the states in the cultural field today, what would that be?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1317	Yes, we are opponents of the government's project. Firstly, the government has begun the reform at the wrong end of drawing up the map first, and then discussing what kind of role and tasks the new regions should have. You should start at another end. It is not that it is about doing tasks to the municipalities and to the regions; it is necessary to do so where appropriate. When the expert committee made its recommendations, and when the government started talking about what to do, we saw once again that it was an expression of the government's view of the cultural field: it wasn't that dangerous. For the culture would take a proportionately large part of the burden of being moved out. Now, fortunately, there has been a dialogue with the states and the new regions, but from the Labour Party we warn against not listening to cultural life itself, which is strongly opposed to breaking up an already weak infrastructure. We in the Labour Party have a different solution: we want more responsibility out to the regions, but we don't have to move what we have, we can build something new, and therefore we have proposed new regional cultural funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1326	The gift-enhancing scheme serves as an incentive for art and cultural institutions to obtain private funding themselves. It helps to reward cultural life with state resources when they work offensively and land agreements in the private market. Since 2014 and until today, 357.5 million have been paid. in gift-enhancing as fresh means for Norway’s cultural life and without any ties, which has given much added value to culture. It actually gives more culture to people most. That is why I wonder if the representative can give the views of the Labour Party and the Left on why it seems that they have both rashes and difficulty breathing when they hear all the positive aspects of this scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1331	I do not have a rash or difficulty breathing, but yes – we are opposed to the gift enhancement system. As the representative now puts it, it seems that for every penny an institution receives in sponsorship, only completely new, healthy state money emerges all of a sudden and beyond everything else that is going to go in and reinforce the private gift. It's not like that. The point is that the gift-enhancing scheme was given over the state budget – now it is pushed over to the tipping funds, unfortunately – there is government money for some private donors to decide that it should be done, rather than that it could be used fairly on something else. That's the whole problem. No one is against people giving private gifts to the institutions, but we're against the government money being directed after it, because it's unfair. It is the large institutions in the central strata that run away with these funds, and it becomes relatively small again to the small institutions that may not be as attractive or that are located in the districts. We would use the state funds in a more fair way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1338	We like to describe a good national cultural policy as the relationship between what we do from the state, what happens regionally, and not least what happens locally. It has been precisely this government's policy: to take responsibility for it and to strengthen the cultural budgets. We've done that in the two years left has been part of this government. At the same time, we see that in many municipalities budgets are weakened. A clear example of this is Stavanger, where the new red-green majority took over, and used the first opportunity to plan all over the cultural budget and hit the volunteer. So my question is: does the representative agree that real strengthening of Culture Norway depends on investments at all three levels of government, or does the Workers' Party believe that cultural policy is best managed from the landfill and government offices?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1347	For the Workers' Party, it is obvious that culture is not just something that the Stortinget and the State and the government should have a strong responsibility for, but that one should also give local and regional priority. This is generally done in Arbeiderpartit-steered municipalities. I could have enjoyed mentioning how things are going in the left-hand municipalities, but there's almost no one left of them, so I don't get a chance to do that. The representative draws up a small cut in a single municipality. This is perhaps a good example of what is the whole problem of today's situation: the most pressing municipal economy in fifteen years with this government while the cultural budget is almost still. This is the whole reason why the Workers' Party is skeptical about moving more out to the municipalities: we see that it is art and culture that only move when it gets tighter – and it will be under this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1354	The cord shift is with the change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1359	Today we are dealing with the cultural budget. Culture is important for most people, and we all have different impressions and perceptions of what is good culture for the individual. What's good culture for me may not be the same for you. That is why it is good that the Committee has had good discussions, and also, of course, has obvious disagreements, in the approach to dealing with the field of culture in terms of distributing benefits from the state treasury – this for the opposition Sarepta jar, which, as you know, never became empty. Unfortunately, this is not the case, but Norwegian cultural life should certainly not have much to complain about when one sees the roughness of political Norway in order to ensure cultural support and viability. Next year's cultural budget is on the right at the base of 20 billion. kr, and I should have liked to see the country of our size that spends the same amount of money on this sector. The budget has been increased by 4.9 billion. kr from the aged budget 2019. It can be said that Culture-Norway is so absolutely not on a bed of soot, but enjoyed a system of allocation that ensures broad activity and a rich cultural life. But in such budgetary debates, I am often struck by the considerable differences in the cultural policy of the parties. There's not always any difference in that large amount of change of heads in the budget. But it's always exciting to try to understand why the different parties spend money one way or the other. For the Progress Party, it has always been so that culture is to be done on people's own premises. This means that both narrow and broad audiences will have their share of public cultural resources. For the Progress Party, it has always been that no politician or bureaucrat should decide what is good or what is bad culture. Culture as the elite project for the masses is totally out of date for us – and it should be out of date for most people. Nevertheless, we see something interesting when dealing with the cultural budget, because it is actually so that the red-greens will limit and cut funds that are managed by non-politicians and bureaucrats. An example of this is the eagerness to cut into the gift-enhancement scheme as shown by the red-greens. As we on the civil side increase and expand the arrangement, the red-green ones cut into it. The Progress Party and the Right introduced this scheme in 2014. The aim was and is to stimulate increased private funding for art and culture. The private grants trigger a gift enhancement to the recipient of usually 25 pst. of the amount of the gift. So it's so simple that for every $100 bill that's given, the state sponsors $25. There has always been a strong interest in and termination of the scheme. In the beginning, it applied only to museums in the national museum network and museums with permanent operating support from Sametinget. But more people would join the scheme, because they saw it was good. So the scheme was extended to include gifts to all museums, music, literature and stage arts, visual arts and cultural buildings. I think it's quite natural that most people and companies see the value of art and culture. So it's great that they see the value of engaging financially. The scheme is an important instrument as one of several sources of funding for culture. It helps to connect the audience and cultural life. Many institutions are very pleased and have become eager users of the scheme. The cultural institutions see that they have much left to work on getting private funds. Because it's not just about money, it's also about proximity to its own audience. We see that institutions, layers and festivals from all states of the country receive funds from the scheme. This year's award has recently been made public, and it shows good breadth: from the large institutions and internationally recognised companies to smaller historical teams, local cultural houses and festivals. All in all, the scheme is to set culture and the public free from governance politicians and cultural bureaucrats. Therefore, it is so sad that the red-greens attack the system and try to cut it. Don't they see that this is good for culture and for the audience? In conclusion, as a FrP, I dream of culture free from red-green politicians who only give money to culture that they think is right and good and that people don't let decide for themselves. There will never be current policies for us that represent the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1387	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1392	The representative said several times that the Progress Party is opposed to elite culture and repeatedly stated resistance to cultural bureaucrats. Can the representative give me a concrete example of what the Progress Party thinks is elite culture? And what are the cultural bureaucrats that the Progress Party wants to live on?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1398	I'm not going to start ramming up which bureaucrats we want to live, because I don't know them. They often hide behind some kind of grey screen, and they are a little difficult to see. They certainly do their job, but they may not act the way we want them to. Elite culture -- you could say it's hard to define exactly what it is, but it's a concept of the narrow, slightly special culture that may not reach the broad layer of the people. Those who might want to fence around it are people who think they have a bigger deal on it than others, for example. myself, and they're kind of trying to put us in a booth and say that they have more knowledge of the area than we have. At the same time, culture is free, open and for everyone. Therefore, there is no right to define what is a good culture for others than for themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1405	Can the representative then give a concrete example of such an elite fine culture that is forced on people?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1410	Culture is not forced on people, culture is something people themselves choose to take in if they want to. But there are narrow cultural offers that get solid contributions through the state fund, and that may only reach a marginal audience. We've had discussions about it before, but it's not right for me to point to individual cultural arenas now, I think, since we're now discussing the entire budget together.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1415	It is interesting to hear the representative Wold talk about how we red-green politicians govern culture and want only one type of culture, while at the same time – at least so far in this cultural debate – it is only the representatives of the Progress Party who have set different types of cultural life up against each other and said that we must support that part and not so much the other. So I really just want to have a comment from the representative Wold on exactly that, as far as I've registered, at least no one in my party has taken the floor to have something more of that culture and something less of it. We haven't. At the same time, the representative, Mr Wold, would also like to address this with a few specific cases in which the representatives of his party have called for the stranglehold of support for certain cultural expressions, for example. a play that was quite much mentioned here the other day. Is it governing culture?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1422	To take the last one first, everyone understands what the theatre piece the representative is looking for. Let me just stress that I was the very first one from the Progress Party who was immediately out there and said that it was totally inappropriate for us to deprive them of any support on the basis of the notion that was, precisely because I believe that we should not control the art expression, nor for the theatre in question. So it wasn't a current problem, although it was raised by someone. As I have said, we choose what cultural expression we want to get inside, and what for some is elite culture, it's not for others. What for some is a narrow cultural expression, for others it's not, and so on, the cultural field has a responsibility to offer culture that people want and want, also narrow offers that maybe only a few will have.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1429	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1434	Culture is incredibly important to our society. The arts, cultural institutions, local, national and international cultural development and cultural experiences – all these contribute differently to public exchanges, formation and richer lives. Culture defines us, creates cohesion, is the pillar of our community and shows the way to the future we want. But the market alone really cannot provide a varied flora of cultural institutions and a variety of cultural activities and expressions. The Central Party therefore believes that the public must pursue an active cultural policy that will enable the whole population, throughout the country, to participate in and experience art and culture. This takes the Central Party seriously, so in our alternative state budget for 2020, we actually have a total of 4.5 billion. kr more to route to municipalities and county municipalities, which we know will significantly strengthen cultural life around. We spend almost half a billion extra dollars to reduce the rate of VAT, among other things. for cultural experiences, so that more people can participate in them. Besides, we're spending well over 350 million. kr more than the government on direct strengthening of culture, cultural offerings and volunteering across the country – i.e. more money for funding schemes for musicians, artists, festivals, theatres, visual arts, friscene art and language organisations, as well as reading measures to promote reading and literature in all walks of life. The Centre Party also proposes an important increase in funding for the Culture Fund of 30 million. kr and other measures that specifically raise local cultural life, such as 10 million. kr extra to the music equipment system, 3 mill. SEK to UKM, SEK 4 million. SEK to our amateur theatres, as well as 5 million. kr to get even more momentum on well-being, teamwork and volunteer centres. Otherwise, in our alternative budget proposal for 2020, we are proposing an absolutely necessary strengthening of efforts to preserve our cultural heritage, which I will come back to later, and it is also an active contributor to culture and cultural dissemination across the country. We need to address the most important requirement of our volunteering, namely that they should not pay taxes on their dues. We in the Centre Party believe it is a fundamental mistake that the State makes money for work done by non-governmental organisations, as they do when they buy goods and services, because then they have to pay VAT. We have made a number of proposals that the VAT compensation scheme for voluntary activities should be set up and that 100 pst should be introduced. compensation. Unfortunately, we have not got through to it. In 2018, there were about 24 000 voluntary teams and organisations applying for a total of less than 2 billion. kr in VAT compensation. The amount granted was only 1.42 billion. kr. An estimate made by Freewill Norway shows that in 2019 the curtailment can become a place between 19 p.m. and 20 pst. It is not good, and the consequence of the government's proposals in the government budget is that organisations will also have a far too much curtailment in 2020. This is money that should have been used for activities locally. We just have to better facilitate volunteering, which we're so addicted to. At least we in the Central Party are contributing 140 million in our draft budget. extra to VAT compensation for voluntary activities. The media industry is still in a critical transformation phase by day due to ad failure, constant changes in the user pattern, and the need for digitisation and automation. The integrity and position of the news media as democrats are in addition under pressure after the emergence of fake news and the part of alternative media spreading fake news. The Central Party believes it is a fundamental democratic value that citizens have access to different news and opinions in the media landscape, including those promoted in alternative media. But these must be factual and verifiable, so that the population does not lose further confidence in the media as a credible vigilance in our democracy. That is why, in the Central Party, we want serious editorial news media across the country to be secured in good condition in the coming years. Press support has been a well-functioning and necessary mechanism to ensure our media diversity, and it is therefore gratifying that the government is increasing it for 2020. However, the government proposes to redeploy press support to the smallest localities at the expense of newspapers that until now have received support precisely because they contribute to diversity of content and ownership. The redistribution could have a major negative impact on those affected. It's positive that the locals get a promise, I have to stress it once again, but in the name of the media, it's not going to cost the other, equally important, media. Therefore, in its alternative budget, the Senterpartiet proposes 12 million. extra in innovation support and support package for media affected by government budget proposals. And then we have 249 million. extra kr to ensure mail transport throughout the country five days a week and 244 million. kr for more broadband deployment, which is also very important media policy. I'll draw myself another post later, because I have more on my heart.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1459	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1464	No one appreciates efficiency and red tape as much as Right-wing people. That is why it was also one of the most important things we went to elections in 2013. I can appreciate the fact that the center party is also concerned about it. But in its alternative state budget, the Centre Party is putting so big a cut in – let's call it – cultural bureaucracy, such as the Council of Culture and the Ministry of Culture, that it does so, for example. means the closure of the District Offices of the Council of Culture. My question to the Central Party is therefore: why are important cultural institutions – or cultural bureaucracy, if you want to call it – cut down and put down effectively in the districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1469	It was a violent description, which absolutely does not vote. When we want to cut the red tape in the Cultural Council, it is because we, among other things, has seen that the Culture Council in its previous annual report showed that they used 18.7 p.m. to consultants. What we're doing here is just half of the sum they're using for it. For the Central Party, it is actually a very conscious policy – which the representative is in – that we want to cut red tape to channel money into the first-line service and into culture, culture and art directly. When it has been important for us in our budgetary process to ensure that there is more money directly to culture, it is not particularly difficult to cut into items that go largely to consulting activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1474	I hear the representative say that this will not go beyond these jobs in the districts, that one would rather cut in consulting services. But the fact is that the Center Party cuts almost 20 million. kr in the administration of the Culture Council. This leads to the closure of the offices in Trondheim and Bodø. They cut a total of 60 million. kr in red tape on the cultural budget. It is simply not possible to cut so much in bureaucracy without losing jobs that have moved out of Oslo. Why does the Senterpartiet lay down relocated jobs and build up culture's infrastructure?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1480	Then I have to make it clear once again that it is not in our draft budget: put down the district of the Culture Council. It's cut in bureaucracy, and as far as the Council of Culture is concerned, we've now seen in their last annual report that they're spending $35 million. kr to consultancy activities. I guess they're $18 million. kr we're using, not a very large part of it. In addition, the Culture Council has not suffered from any more cuts in administrative costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1485	The consequences of these central party efficiencies are, of course, that they will affect artists even in the districts when the sums are as large as they are in the Central Party's alternative budget. When talking about cutting off to the Council of Culture because of the use of consultants, I would just like to point out that consulting is mainly paid to the artists and experts in the field of assisting bureaucracy. Just that won't necessarily be useful, at least not if the aim is to build up artists. At the same time, in the full range of the Central Party budget, we see that EEA funds are being cut very quickly. Doesn't the Center Party see that several of these bets have a utility, like the EEA bets, to get good international bets for our artists?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1490	Thank you for the question. When the Center Party – I repeat the Center Party – is going to make a total assessment of what we think is important cultural policy, it is making cultural life throughout the country flourish and flourish. Yes, there may be good actions in the EU programmes, but we would rather – we really do – take away from the bureaucracy that is used for it, and also some of the efforts, and use it on the bets that we seem to be much more important, such as the music equipment system and as giving to the Culture Fund, so that they get concrete funds to give to the different forms of art and culture. It's a very simple priority for us. It is possible that the Left's representative does not share it, but any centre party and those who sit around in Norway and want to get more money for their cultural projects, art projects and local associations, I think quite agree with us.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1497	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1502	It can be described in many ways how important art and cultural life is to us, as free expressions that develop and challenge society, building communities and communities. But I thought to be completely concrete today, because the importance of art and culture is so obvious – and ice clear, it stands before me – when I, for example. Visits a leisure club and sees young people in a dance group who feel mastery, and who get expressed in a way that they didn't even know existed – or when a young guy from the east here in Oslo writes a book that finally tells the story of exactly his growth in Aunt Ulrikke's road, in which many people recognize themselves, or when Ella Marie presents centuries of tradition and our close history of political struggle at the same time in a joicy, primetime on the main channel of the public broadcaster. Prioritising cultural life and art is about prioritising a well-being that we all need in our lives. It's about giving priority to telling and expressing stories, it's about prioritising our democracy. That's why we can't put a price tag on culture – it has such a strong self-esteem – but we have to appreciate culture, and it does SV in its alternative budget. Of all those who are here today, we do what we tend to do every year, that is, propose the budget that prioritises art and culture the highest. It's a proud tradition for us. We also showed it when we crashed together with the other red-green parts. We achieved our goal of using 1 pst. by the State budget for cultural purposes, and it was at the time that, as now, to raise art and culture up in policy, the development of cultural infrastructure. It's still standing. Because, despite a cultural message from the cultural party Left, the proportion of the state budget that goes just for cultural purposes remains stable well below the 2013 level, and it actually equals 1.7 billion. kr. It has a little bit to say. That's why we're doing a big jaf in this budget, like before, and we're increasing the cultural framework by almost 800 million. kr, in addition to cultural initiatives on other frameworks. And it's not a surrender policy. On the contrary, it is a political choice, a priority. We believe that everyone should participate in a rich and varied art and cultural life, regardless of where they live, and how big the wallet is. If we are to get to that, the community must expand the arts and culture offer, not leave more to market and commerce, as the government does. The most important thing to get the art and culture of the many is just to expand the cultural base wall – the cultural offer that is present all around the country, the libraries, the cultural school, the leisure clubs, the cultural freedom. It's just such a local cultural promise we're outlining in our alternative budget this year. We're going to continue the national initiative in the libraries, with about 100 million. kr, because the libraries themselves balance access. We give priority to introducing a free cultural school class for primary school students, so that the far too high thresholds for participation in the fantastic offer are reduced. We are proposing a new support scheme for the cultural budget for leisure clubs, so that even more children and young people can go to open and free meeting places to drive the cultural expression that suits them, whether it's dance, music or computer games. We're not doing at least a big job in this budget for cultural freedom, and I'm going to spend a little extra time on it. More than one million Nordics are involved in voluntary cultural life, ranging from corps and choirs and amateur theatres to homework, but support for cultural freedom does not correspond to size. For the drugs, perhaps the most important source of resources for cultural freedom, it's obvious. The money that would have gone to e.g. equipment and premises, children's and youth culture, etc., have instead been used by the right-hand government for many other things. Culture tipping agents have become a balancing item. That's what we choose to do in this year's budget. We're proposing a clean-up, and that clean-up results in 200 million. kr more for the freedom of culture. That's how we build the cultural base wall, so that everyone has access to a rich art and cultural offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1515	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1520	Government parties are committed to stimulating more private investment and contributing to culture across the country. The award of grants is made independently of geography, and applications for grants are examined on an ongoing basis as far as the available framework is concerned. The gift-enhancing system, as we have heard before, helps to reward cultural life with state resources when they work offensively and land agreements with the private market. A total of 357.5 million has been disbursed. kr in the scheme from 2014 to 2019. These are completely fresh substances without bindings, and they have contributed to a lot of extra culture. In the same years, this has mobilised 1.4 billion. kr from private donors to cultural life. How can the representative say no to nearly 1.8 billion? kr that cultural life has received through this scheme over six years?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1527	We have long been critical of the gift enhancement scheme, especially for one, particularly important, reason. It is about the fact that cultural policy in Norway should be democratically guided and based on professional quality and peer evaluation. These are the principles on which we have built the Norwegian cultural policy, so that we can use the cultural crowns we have on the right things and, for example, on the right things. develop cultural services throughout the country, not only in central areas. The gift enhancement system is the exact opposite of all of that. The gift-enhancing system is about giving public crowns where private gifts are given, and we believe it is a little democratic way of governing cultural policy. On the tap I will give the representative Pettersen a challenge: is it really that we know that the gift-enhancing system has mobilised extra private money? There's really little to suggest.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1536	‘The whole country’, said the representative. That SV believes the scheme should be scrapped because cultural life in some parts of the country is poor at mobilising private donors becomes a strange argument. On the contrary, if we look at the recipients, there is a good variation in which states do the best: Uppland, Oslo, Hordaland, West Agder, Telemark and Buskerud are at the top of the population, and all the counties of the country are represented among the recipients. I visited myself, for example. Baroness Rosendal this summer, who praised the arrangement on behalf of his place, and the manager actually also asked me to go to SV and say that they should not touch this arrangement. We look at Østfold, as the representative of Övstegård and I represent, the recipients were the last year's school effort to the Blåseensesemblet, the Halden Kulturhus Association, the Østfold Museums and the Color Games – to attract some. There are measures that take children and young people, and they take a wide range of measures. How does the representative feel that institutions should work to ensure the same revenue as the scheme currently mobilises in a fissure layer?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1547	I believe that the representative Pettersen draws up a very fine list of many good actions, many good cultural institutions, as SV in its alternative state budget proposes to finance there instead. Then I am back to what this matter is about, namely that it should be professionalism and democracy and not private sponsorship that determines where to go the public crowns. Therefore, instead, we choose to finance them over other parts of the State budget — not above the funds, where the gift-enhancing scheme is as of today. This is absolutely an important argument when a small number of recipients located centrally in the East or in large cities elsewhere escape with the vast majority of this scheme, while for example. Finnmark gets very, very little. It shows that this scheme is not rigged to expand the cultural offer throughout the country, and that is the problem of the gift enhancement scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1554	In its alternative government budget for next year, SV proposes a net increase in the tax burden of 22.8 billion. kr. SV says that much of this is so-called green taxes, but there are also large parts of what will affect Norwegian business. Norwegian businesses, which are responsible for the value creation of society, are becoming increasingly burdened with their shoulders. SV appears to be blind for values to be created before they can be used and distributed. This industrial hostility is also reflected in the cultural budget. It seems like everything called culture, until it's called culture. How will the SV representative explain that culture is completely elated as long as no private earns money on it?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1562	I can answer the first part of the question first: With SV's alternative tax arrangements, we beat two flies in one taste. First of all, it redistributes it very clearly. Those who already have the most will pay more into the community. That gives us a full year effect of 22 billion. kr extra, as the representative, Wold mentioned, as we, among other things. can be used to increase the cultural budget considerably, which I think is wise. Another thing we do in our alternative tax scheme, is to lower the taxes for those who make 600,000 dollars and less, so we give tax relief to most people, unlike the Progress Party, which gives tax relief to them with a lot from before. To the second part of the question, it's absolutely true that we're also giving priority to our government budget. We do, because we believe that sending cultural crowns from the cultural budget into Innovation Norway is a crazy priority. That scheme may be good, but we believe that that money should be given priority over the food budget – also at such a fine cultural effort.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1569	That's the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1574	A free art and cultural life with low thresholds to participate and experience is crucial for a democracy, and not least it says a lot about what kind of democracy we are. When the government for the second consecutive year presents a cultural budget with large increases that add up to more culture for more people across the country, it is an important message of value. Art, culture, sport and volunteering are the things that make everyone feel that they belong to, that they can use just their abilities and talents – and masters, or just feel joy and meaning in listening to or looking at something beautiful, something different or something that changes the perspective. In the Left, we are clear that culture is about freedom of expression. The public shall protect and facilitate all the expressions and opinions raised and broken on stage, studios and classrooms, such as: But it's not the public that's going to create or say what opinions are going to take place, because the content is going to come from below. We want everyone to have access to culture and everyone to participate in culture. It's about freedom and equal opportunities, and that's what lays the foundation for democracy. That's why government's commitment to diversity is so important. By 2020, 18 million cultural crowns will be allocated to projects to contribute to the diversity, integration and fight against poverty. The initiative is also reinforced by the fact that we at Stortinget have negotiated to strengthen the Mela House here in Oslo with another 1 million kroner. in addition to the Government's proposals. The Mela House is an important meeting place for people and art across cultural differences. It is particularly important here in the city, where the diversity of people and cultures is greater than many other places in the country. In this way, the Melahuset is also involved in highlighting one of the main points of the Left's cultural policy: it must be relevant. People should know each other and see their life and society mirrored in art. That's why Oslo has to have a Mela House and Vadsø have a women's museum. That is why we need the Minister of Culture to deliver a communication on child and youth culture that takes art and culture for young people as seriously as for adults. Good culture is not ‘one size fits all’. There is something suitable for each individual. Therefore, it is so important that cultural policy is diverse, has local origins and is not overarched by key directives. Culture is of national importance even if it is located locally, historically and geographically. In the Culture Communication we addressed a year ago, the relationship between the three levels – municipality, region and country – is an important topic. The aim was to clean up and ensure that the three levels move in the same direction, that local voices and needs are heard in making cultural priorities. Some have been concerned about how it would go if we were now to formally start listening to local and regional wishes, and how it would work when the states were to get more cultural tasks. After all, state and local politicians also had to give priority to culture, and how in the world would it go well? The answer is yes, this government is shifting power downwards. Several tasks shall be carried out from the capital and home to those affected by them. There should be no greater distance between people and decisions regarding their lives than that absolutely must be. It is a liberal and democratic principle, and yes, it means that culture must in fact also become a priority for politicians in counties and municipalities. It is important to create living and attractive communities. More tasks and more influence on culture in your own area should not be seen as a threat, but as a matter of course. Of course, the State must be on the financing and facilitation side, but not the main or only premiscible supplier. It gives more power to people, and it gives more freedom to people where they live. There are many more areas I would like to have mentioned in an opening post, but when we hear the fear of many opposition politicians when they hear the word nutrition, I just want to end by stressing that in the Left we will not invent industries or point out individual industries that are more important than others. It is not politicians who know best what has the greatest potential or becomes most important tomorrow, but we have to make fair rules of play and make sure that access to capital is good. Therefore, for example, the gift-enhancing scheme is important. It's an incentive scheme for private people that will help finance culture, and that has triggered gifts for hundreds of millions of dollars. The left wants a free and vibrant culture industry built from below.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1602	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1607	When I hear the post of the representative of Almeland, I sit and wait for something that I know the Central Party and the Left have in common, that is, a great commitment to cultural memories. I hope there might be a little bit more to it from the representative later. But once I have the opportunity in a line exchange, it's very important for me, who was with the Left's representative in the committee on that earlier, to get in place to get a national cultural memory message about not too long. In the joint comment that the Committee had then, we also wrote that we need national targets in that communication. That's what we've been up to now. There is a goal that the government has not been able to follow up. That is why there is less and less money on the cultural memory front. I am very concerned to know whether the Left's representative in today's committee is as concerned as I am that there will be measurable, concrete objectives in the new cultural memory message.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1618	Thank you for the question. I also look forward to the fact that we're going to start to smell a little bit more on this cultural memory message, which we've been very happy about, and which for the left-wing people too is very important. For cultural memories are not only an object or a place or a thing that is nice to remember, but also something that tells us something about who we are, and where we come from, and that can have not least other effects locally, namely tourism and that kind of thing. I also look forward to receiving a cultural memory message that gives a clear indication of where we want to go, and I also have a expectation that the minister will put his weight in following up precisely those ambitions in good left-wing spirit.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1627	The free performing arts are perhaps one of the most important things we have for development and innovation in Norwegian art and cultural life. It's important for what's happening on the stage field in general. But yet history repeats itself, it seems, almost year after year under this government, and we stand here again in a notified tragedy. Established stage art companies that are completely at the top of the world are falling between all the chairs, and now we are in a situation where several of them will stand without support and could have to be laid down. And then we have a large number that doesn't take responsibility for it and neither does it create a permanent solution that can fit these types of groups, nor does it create emergency solutions. Why won't the Left, who celebrates the free performing arts in festivities, also take responsibility for our most established skilled companies?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1632	I share the reality description with the representative of the Supreme Court. It's also quite true that many of the free performing arts environments have been down-prioritized over a long period of time by several governments. This government has said that this is exactly why we have to deal with this. So it's not like this government doesn't do anything for the free performing arts environments. But we've done a lot. We've made sure to join and strengthen several of the programming scenes. Two examples are Black Box here in my own town, Oslo, or Avant Garden and Rosendal Theatre in Trondheim. That way, we're also involved in creating the scene spaces that provide the basis for just a lot of these companies to also be able to run their activity. And then I look forward to the stage art strategy that the government is going to present, where several of these questions will be addressed in concrete terms.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1639	The representative Almeland mentioned good actions that SV supports, but he does not respond to what I asked for. We are now in a situation entirely, quite concrete, which means that a number of companies that are hailed, which have great international status, from New Year will be without support. They fall between the chairs – there are no support schemes operating with the type of long-term support operations needed by established companies in free performing arts. It's nothing new. We have opposed this situation now year after year, and the last two state budgets also with the Left, which govern the Ministry of Culture. So my question to the representative Almeland is quite specific why it wasn't established, for example. a new arrangement under the Cultural Council, but outside the Cultural Fund, which can be used for the kind of long-term support these companies need, so that we do not lose out on the best we have on free performing arts.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1648	Several of these questions, as I also answered the previous line, will just come into the stage art strategy that the government has announced to come. Then I also share the concern. It was therefore also the majority. in the context of the budget for the previous year, it addressed it and also provided support for the increase in just those subsidies which would cover several of these companies. Then we see that here are the larger structures that have been set over time that we have to look at, and those questions I think are best addressed when they are seen in the context of the other arrangements that also exist in the field. It's exactly what a stage art strategy gives us the opportunity to do – see these things in context, so that you can find good arrangements to make, and make sure that we have a free stage art life that can flourish and last even over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1658	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1663	The Christian People's Party wants a society where we care about and stand up for each other. Voluntary and non-profit institutions serving households are crucial for this. I have great respect for the children's and youth organisations. They offer an arena where children and young people meet and evolve. There you become part of a community, you get developed and, not least, you challenge both attitudes and values in meeting others. There is knowledge, democracy, belonging and friends for life. Yeah, we're so lucky to be living in a country where our young people can gather in stakeholder organisations and party-political organisations to discuss, learn and break opinions with and against each other. This is the very foundation of our democracy. That's how we as communities evolve. Children’s and young people’s freedom is a factor for the future. And think – these kids might have to stand here someday! Children’s and youth organisations also show an organisational diversity that contributes to important recreational venues and activities. They represent something that the government can never give — activities where the participants themselves premise. This type of activity is very important to us as a society because we want children and young people in Norway to be active and participate in a variety of activities and services, wherever they live and where they come from. For us politicians, cooperation and communication with the volunteers are crucial. When the authorities and the volunteer talk well and know each other, we'll be able to solve the problems together. That's why I'm happy to see the positive effects the card will have on children's and young people's freedom. We are already sending out children and young people with leisure cards in their pockets in several pilot municipalities, and with an allocation for 2020 of 60 million. This will help children and young people to participate in permanent organised activities. One of the main challenges of child and youth freedom in recent years has been that they do not have adequate access to facilities for exercises and gatherings. We're going to do something about that. That is why we have allocated 2 million in this budget. kr to LNU’s project to develop a digital portal for lending municipal premises. This will lower the threshold to drive with such volunteering and at the same time contribute to sustainability and good sharing economy. We have contacted several business and non-profit sector actors who want to make their premises available for children’s and young people’s freedom in the afternoons and weekends. For this reason, we also choose to support the opening of the portal to other actors who want to support children’s and young people’s freedom by lending out their premises on the same terms and conditions as for municipal premises. I am very positive about increasing social entrepreneurship in business and increasing the focus on sustainability and sharing economy. Norway is completely dependent on the many thousands of individuals who make an invaluable voluntary effort for their communities in many different ways – whether it is sport, corps, choirs, youth work, integration, inclusion, etc. Without volunteering and good spirit, Norway stops. We in the Christian People's Party believe that society is best built from below, and the portal for lending premises is a good example of this. When that happens, it means that the voluntary communities, associations and layers are perceived as valuable. They're not just checking to have as an addition to the state and the municipality, but they feel incredibly valuable in themselves, because when people choose to spend their time on voluntary work, they give of themselves to others, and they also get a lot back. The Christian People's Party and the Left strengthened children's and youth's freedom several times when we negotiated the state budget from the Stortinget. In the years 2016–2018, basic support for children’s and youth organisations increased by a total of 25 million. kr. In government, and together with grassroots, we will continue to create good framework conditions and facilitate the growth and development of children's and young people's freedom.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1680	Art and culture are expressions of community-building power. That was the starting point for the cultural message The power of culture that we presented here last fall, and that the Stortinge treated. When the Stortinge joined the objectives we set for cultural policy, it was also said in this room that it is no joke if it is just beautiful words, you actually have to show it in practical action. I actually agree with that. That's why I'm quite proud to present a historically good cultural budget. The total appropriations for the 2020 cultural budget will be close to 20 billion. kr. It's a staggering sum, and we don't have to go further than to our neighboring countries until we see that Norway spends much more on supporting culture than the other countries that it's natural to compare us to do. If we take out the 6 billion. kr related to the conversion of the funding of the NRK, the cultural budget has increased by 850 million. in 2020. That's an increase of 6.7 pst. from the previous year – a significant real growth. And then we're going to spend over 5 billion. kr of the game profit from Norsk Tipping. Another important point in the Culture Communication is to spread power – to spread power in decisions in the way and the structure on which we build Culture-Norway, but also in regional reform. The division of responsibilities and work in the cultural field is now negotiating with all the counties in order to find a good follow-up to regional reform – shifting more power down, making culture more important and making culture an important part of both national and regional policies. We have also provided a voluntary message, which promises the desire for both breadth and diversity. Now we're doing an escalating of almost 80 million. kr within the VAT compensation scheme. So the goal is to reach 1.8 billion. NOK 2021. In addition, we are proposing a new scheme to include more children and young people in the voluntary field of culture and measures that can make it easier for non-governmental organisations to apply. That means we go from last year to this year from 74.5 pst. VAT compensation scheme coverage of 80 pst. coverage under the VAT compensation scheme. I can only mention that under Stoltenberg II in 2012 there was 50 pst. coverage under the VAT compensation scheme. The goal is a cultural life with space for everyone. That's why we have a big investment in cultural diversity of 24.5 million. in different actions and projects in the cultural field in 2020 to stimulate both more diversity and more integration. We also strengthen the artistic life by increasing the scholarship and remuneration system for artists in 2020. We finance 37 new student homes, 32 work grants, 5 long-term scholarships – together we are now well over 700 art scholarships, and we increase the scholarship rate by nearly NOK 8 600. We also strengthen the remuneration system, and we implement a new and more modern agreement for the library fee. We have the biggest investment in archives and the digitization of cultural heritage ever. Knowledge of the past is essential for the future. We'll give 140 million. DKK over four years for a new, big bet to create new national joint solutions and spend 87 million. kr extra at the National Library of Mo i Rana. This is a bet on the top of the world. Let's use 1 billion. kr on new cultural buildings, but in the sum of the state budget in 2020, we allocate grants to museums and visual arts totaling 2.2 billion. kr. What we're doing now is the biggest investment in museum and visual art in the future. We're also turning media support into more sustainability and strengthening local media. We're increasing the direct media support by 30 million. kr, increases the grant for innovation and development, redirects the funding to the NRC, which means that most will now pay less in a new scheme. We're raising the media. In the spring of 2020, the government is presenting a new cultural message. The new national goal of the cultural memory field shall be anchored. By 2020, the cultural memory area will be strengthened by an addition from the Culture Memory Fund, so that more private owners can receive support to restore protected properties. We strengthened Sami building protection from 2018 to 2019, and it will continue in 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1708	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1713	The Minister of Culture must be commended for taking cultural life seriously. She has been given increased appropriations in a good number of areas, certainly in a hard fight in a government that has many desires and needs. Now it is clear for a new cultural message, as the Minister of Culture has announced. It was in the cultural message to Valgerd Svarstad Haugland that the opposition laid its foundation for the cultural promise. We took the old French idea of 1 pst. of the state budget for culture, uplifted by the whole cultural life, because it was known that this is a vulnerable area, where the interest and lobby organisations are not so strong, but how little money brings very great results. Will the Minister of Culture also address the 1st Pst goal, so that she can stand stronger within the government, and in society, for the purpose of opening up a cultural promise?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1722	For me, cultural policy is both about the values you use, and about how you control art and culture, which provides the basis for a diversity of both forms of expression and opinions. Deepest, I believe that all art and culture are expressions, so this is freedom of speech policy. That's why it's also a point to spread power. What's in the message of culture is that it's not just in this hall that you have to manage power within culture, it's a point that power spreads within the field of culture. That's why we're practicing arm's length as far as the Council of Culture is concerned, that's why we want arm's length as far as the Council of Media Support is concerned, that's why we now want to make cooperation agreements with the counties to move more power out to them, so that they can become more active developers of regional culture. There I want more driving forces, I want more scattering of power. It is therefore wrong to wish that the best possible power and the best possible money should be here. I want to give money to the regions as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1729	It's a bit of a humorous paradox that the Minister of Culture first holds a long main post where she boasts and frames all of her additions, and then she says that too many additions are dangerous, because then too much power is collected in the Ministry of Culture's budget. Of course, it does not prevent regions, volunteers or private individuals from spending more money on culture, even though the cultural budget is 1 pst. by the State budget. It's not on your fingertips. But on another specific question: in the context of the media communication in our committee, a joint committee said that we expected the Minister of Culture to have close dialogue to ensure that the Mo in Rana people who lose their jobs when the licensing office is relocated are properly cared for, and that other tasks added to Mo in Rana are assessed, so that they are taken care of. Now we hear from employees that quite a few of them are afraid to stand on the street when this is done, and that they have not got a job, and my question to the Minister of Culture is, What has she done and what will she do to care for the employees affected by this conversion?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1736	I have a great deal of sympathy and understanding that those who have worked at the licensing office are going through a big change when we actually decide not to apply for a licence anymore. But we're not maintaining the licensing department for that reason. What we have done instead is that we have created 80 new posts, but it is not a mere transfer from the NRK to the National Library. What we have offered is training for employees, and we have offered them guidance to apply for the new jobs we create. We have also tried to use all the tools we have as a good employer from the NRK to take care of people and find alternative work for them. These changes are pretty tough, but 80 positions I think are a good start. We don't always get that kind of promise from the National Library, so there's a basis here. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1743	It is good to hope, but when there were 450, or 500, applicants for the 80 posts created by the National Library, and those applicants of course come from all over the country, and – quite rightly – this cannot be regarded as an internal transfer or priority, it requires all the more effort to ensure that you get a job. Training and guidance are excellent, but have you made sure that NRK, local hubs, other private companies and other institutions assemble and systematically monitor their skills and help each employee to be cared for? There is no one here in Stortinget who believes that we should maintain the license office to keep people working. On the contrary, the government received support for the conversion of the licence. But the more important it was, in fact, for a unanimous committee, that there was a great deal of pressure on helping people into new work. What will the Council of State do in the future to help those who have not yet entered a new career?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1752	We work closely with both the NRK and the National Library to make good transitions. Then I have to say that I think it's great that there are a lot of applicants for this type of job, because we need good professionals. Mo in Rana is also an area that does not have very high unemployment, so it should be possible to make good transitions for people. We're working with the NRK and we're working with the National Library to keep them up with the employees in a good way. If any of the employees think that's not good enough, we're going to strengthen that dialogue in the future, because we're busy treating people properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1759	We in the Center Party are also very concerned that the joint comment of the Committee on Employees who lose their jobs in Mo in Rana is followed up by the Minister. But then to a heartchild: cultural memories. We in the Center Party are very happy that we spend 152.5 million. kr more than the government of cultural memories. Yesterday, however, I read an interview with the new County Director of Plan and Nutrition in Trøndelag County, who now fears the fate of cultural memories after the regional reform. Now they only get money for 0.2 mills, but they need 6 mills to be able to maintain their new portfolio at all. The left and the minister have been anxious that the regional reform will be good and have now had dialogue, but it turns out that the money is not coming along. That is what we in the Central Party have feared all the way through regional reform. How in the world will the government and the minister ensure that the cultural memory field now really does not suffer from the regional reform? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1767	This is not entirely within my constitutional area, but since Ola Elvestuen is doing an important job for Norway and for the world in Madrid right now, I'm still going to try to answer the question. Obviously, we have a challenge in the future to take care of the cultural memories we have. I'm glad that the Center Party has always been on the Left side by also seeing here that this is some kind of gift-enhancing, where we also contribute to getting private money into cultural memories, which is absolutely crucial, and the bourgeois government has been with and really promised the Cultural Memory Fund. The issues raised in the consultation round that has taken place should be further queried when we present a cultural memory announcement in just a short time, let's say spring 2020. We have received 117 written reports on how we should take the steps ahead in order to manage this in a good way, and I am sure that the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment will come back with good answers to the representative in this area then.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1772	There were great expectations for the literature policy after quite clear promises from the Left before the party entered the government, and it has been a great book year now in 2019. But in a few weeks' time, and we can record that we are without a read strategy, while the PISA survey recently showed that reading among young people in leisure time goes down. False news and disinformation make knowledge literature increasingly important. Nevertheless, the purchasing system for proselytism is as deficient today as it was when the Left took over, and the school libraries are still calling for a national policy, as the Left has previously called for. In our budget, we are proposing 90 million. kr extra to do something about exactly these things, put in place a reading strategy, among other things. Is it meant that Norwegian literature betting should be over in a couple of weeks, when the accounting year is over? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1777	President Trine Skei Grande will have the floor. - No, State Council Skei Grande, I think we'll say!
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1782	The booksetting we've had this year has been a great success in opening up markets to many Norwegian authors and getting to it, and we think we've now passed over 1,000 literature events in Norway through the book year. But what we also chose to do in the book year was to put forward a new library strategy. It has quite a lot of commitments in the future, and it's also about the first library strategy, where school library, public library and university library go together into a strategy where we want to raise the entire library industry. The previous strategy, which was also very successful, opened up to the libraries as a meeting place. Now we're strengthening education and reading through the new library strategy. I imagine that we have to work with the industry on how to strengthen the reading in the future, so we've started a dialogue with the publishers and many of the other actors to get good projects in the future, where we might be able to work together to get good reading projects. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1787	The title confusion arose instead because the president wondered whether he had to remind both the Council of State and representatives to deal with the allocated speaking time. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1794	I would like to continue where I left off in the exchange of lines, because I support the Council of State's response to the question of how the cultural message will be followed up. Then report. St. 48 for 2002–03 was treated, it was full of good visions. It was a well-written message, certainly by an excellent office which is partly still there, but it lacked concrete, committed efforts. It was said on the other hand that one should have a monthly increase, and the suspicion in Stortinget was that this had escaped because Per-Kristian Foss, who was then Minister of Finance, thought that «monthly» meant the same as «moderate». That didn't mean it. So there were no concrete promises and no visions until the red-greens joined together and said we wanted 1 pst. of the State budget would go to culture. It gave the framework that culture ministers could then, including myself, win out in the Budget Conference. I think Trine Skei Grande, like all cultural ministers, has fought hard at the Budget Conference. I suspect that the permes she brings to those meetings are as full of ambitions, goals and increases as any other Minister of Culture has had. Then report. St. 8 for 2018–2019 was discussed in the spring, we had hoped that we had that kind of concrete objectives, but that was not the case. The Council of State says it's because if the cultural budget gets too big, there's too much power gathered in the corridors of the Ministry of Culture. Does that mean, then, that the Minister of Culture has got exactly what she wanted on the cultural budget when she was at the government conference? Did she have no notes, divorce sheets and arrangements where she went further than the Minister of Finance assigned her? Maybe she got more from the Minister of Finance, but the Minister of Culture said, "No, thank you, this is a little too much, because now there is too much power concentrated in the department? This is an argument that we've heard from the right all the way through all the 15 years we've been doing the violent cultural effort. The argument has been that if you increase the cultural budget too much, you deprive artists and cultural workers of freedom. But what gives freedom to artists and cultural workers? Is it searching for project support and grants, bets, exhibitions, book releases and films and getting no after no? Or is it actually to get that freedom through support, both from the public and from the private, so that you can carry out your artistic and cultural policy projects? That's what gives freedom. The truth is that the state cultural promise has triggered a lot of both municipal, county and private money, because when the Minister of Culture gets through to increase the allocation of orchestras, museums and other local bets, the municipalities and the counties come with their shares. Sometimes local politicians were even heard complaining under the Cultural Promise because the violent state effort was driving too much money into culture within the municipal and county budgets, but fortunately those frames also increased quite sharply when we were in government, so that it was fully feasible to implement it. In the exact same way, it's with the private ones. There'll be more private audience revenue from making more movies. There will be more private public money because we have more exhibitions, more book releases, more musicians who can bet on tournaments and music releases, or – as we did in our time – bet internationally through the U.D. on marketing Norwegian artists and cultural workers abroad. One of those who have really been hit by the fact that we no longer have a cultural promise is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' cultural commitment, which is being shaved year after year. Although the cultural budget is maintained within the Ministry of Culture, we see that this is money that was held up by the fact that they were an integral part of the cultural promise, but which has since been hit. The working party has over half a billion extra dollars on its cultural budget. We have a sharp increase in VAT compensation for volunteering. We have a strong increase in the areas that often get the least – the film, the dance, the regional cultural initiative. And my claim is that it's going to be incredibly difficult to prove that this bet reduces the freedom of art or leads to too much concentration of power in the Ministry of Culture. On the contrary – it is this bet that allows the many flowers to flourish, and increased freedom for artists and cultural workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1811	I choose to start as the Minister of Culture and say that the cultural budget is the winner in 2020 – even though the opposition is most concerned about talking it down. The budget is, as everyone knows, nearly 20 billion. And if you ignore the part of the NRK, you have an increase of 6.7 pst. from 2019 – recognised by the representative Trettebergstien as a small increase. Once again, I have to make a little visit to Mr. Kari Henriksen's contribution to the financial debate a few days ago. Here she made a statement that I just think is sad for the political change of words. I quote: ‘The policy and rhetoric of the Hearing Administration disassembles the welfare state, breaks it down into pieces, and makes it incomprehensible, alien and untransparent. This increases the distance between users and politicians, and is good fertiliser for mistrust.’ No, this is the type of article that contributes to increased mistrust. Furthermore, Henriksen produced a calculation that said that with the budget we are adopting today, volunteering must sell 3.6 million additional rolls of paper with our level of VAT compensation. That's wrong. Using the same conversion factors, I can establish that our budget helps to sell the same volunteer 18 million fewer rolls of toilet paper next year, starting in 2019. And 2019 was a record year in payments of VAT compensation, with SEK 1.6 billion. kr, an increase of more than 70 pst. since 2013, and a historically low abbreviation of only 18 pst. In the voluntary notification, the government parties have notified that the VAT compensation scheme for non-governmental organisations shall be of SEK 1.8 billion. NOK 2021. That is a promise we also underline in the comments on the budget we are debating today. Some changes have been made in the calculation model in 2019, so that the scheme is now more effective for small organisations. This year is more than 90 pst. by the beneficiaries of regional and local associations, which means an increase in local activity in line with the objective. The opposition is good at writing notes where they promise gold and green forests, but if we look at the numbers, we see that there are several places millions between the promises and what they are actually making out of funding. One area where there is a long way between life and learning is the ABE reform. The Labour Party says that they are opposed to the reform, but have not put in a penny to do something about what they are so strongly opposed to – or as they say in their own words: it is not possible for the Workers' Party to compensate for all these cuts in one alternative budget. In any case, the so-called ABE reform does not have our support. So simple is not the real world. In the cultural budget, we're going to base a general cut of 0.5 pst. for most grant items, other than grant schemes, media support and organisations of disabled persons. This gain has been redispatched to other innovative purposes on the same cultural budget. Unfortunately, innovation and innovation do not seem to be anything the opposition believes very well about. The centre party cuts, for example. at the Council of Culture and Creative Europe, as we have heard earlier this afternoon. SV swings the axe over the Culture Tank, X Games, cultural and creative nutrition and Talent Norway. And the gift-enhancing system will bring them all back to life. Several parties also challenge the funding of culture through the means and want to bring more cultural measures back into the state budget. When the red-greens crashed, they actually lifted a third of the tips from the cultural games and entered the state budget and thereby weakened what they now want to strengthen, but of course it's allowed to repent. The gambling money has had a huge development of a few years, and then it is not fair that only those who have already been in the scheme will be able to take part in the increase. Following the conversion of the key in 2015 and as a result of increased gambling profits, cultural allocations now amount to more than 800 million. kr. The increase, of course, provides room for funding more cultural purposes through the games. It has never been the case that the games have been reserved for what SV calls cultural freedom. The main purpose of gambling has been, and is still, the financing of the cultural school bag. There is a system that can hardly be inserted under the umbrella ‘cultural freedom’. I started by saying that culture is budget winning next year. Never have the negative statements been less. Rarely has boasted been bigger. Let's use that moment together to present what we're all so concerned about, Norwegian culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1846	The President will probably note that it is probably easier if we deal with Norwegian kroner in budgetary terms.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1851	The government is occupied with a life-viewing society, a society that facilitates faith, and values faith, and that accepts that it is perfectly possible to have different faiths. It's important for the individual to be able to express his faith. It means a lot to the individual, many say that it's the purpose of life, and making it possible for believers to have good opportunities to exercise their faith is important to the government. But it's also important for society. We use words as ‘social forces’. When you think about what religious communities mean for our country, for the different communities around, I think we can at least pretty quickly conclude that without the amazingly important work happening around the municipalities, in the communities, the country would have looked completely different. Everything from baby singing to senior hits, to other types of commitment to helping those who need it the most, is very often driven by different religious communities or organizations with a Christian or other value base. In the state budget for 2020, we are just promising to implement an active supportive policy to support the faith communities. That is why I am very pleased that the budget received a good reception. It's a budget that ensures the possibility of the people's Church to be nationwide, to be present throughout the country and to have the readiness it needs, whether at baptism or at funerals, at marriages or at tragic events where the church very often becomes a place for the community to apply for. It means a lot to the communities, the job that religious communities do. In the 2020 budget, we are also continuing the state's commitment to the maintenance of culturally important churches. The state's setting up is an important signal, and it also provides the basis for the important job to be done by the Committee in relation to the Information Society's fund and the message in the Committee. In addition, the next case to be dealt with by the Committee, the new age for 2019, also shows that funds are transferred from the year’s budget to the next year in terms of payments related to church maintenance. Overall, the next year will be paid over 50 million. kr for the maintenance of the important church buildings. New religious law and notification of the Information Society Fund are now under consideration in the Grand Duchy and the Committee shall be consulted on the important work without delay. It makes this very clear with an active supportive policy for the religious communities, but also that we should have a life-seen society. There are many exciting and important discussions that I look forward to the Committee discussing related to that law. In addition, there will be a very important work related to the Information Society Fund. After 200 years of disagreement about the ownership of the fund, the government now proposes that the values in the fund should benefit the church as a big promise to maintain the beautiful and culturally important church buildings we have around the country, while the state takes ownership of the fund in order to manage it further. I look forward to important discussions related to it. I would like to stress that I think it is important that we try to find common solutions for both of these issues, which are to be dealt with in the Committee. At least it's my goal to find sustainable solutions that can last over time. Not least about the signals the Stortinget is going to send around the Information Society's fund, which could amount to several billions. Then it is important that the Storting send signals to make a change, and commit themselves in the future. This will have great significance for religious communities, for the Norwegian Church, and I would also say for those communities that unfortunately have church buildings that are not well equipped today. I hope that the efforts we will have with the municipalities will ensure that even more of the buildings are well-established.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1868	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1873	The Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party agree on the importance of being able to believe what you want, and have the opinions you have. What I feel is that the Council of State does not take over, are the signals that come from the closed religious and life-view societies where there is abuse, where there is harassment, where there is violence, where communities and regulations around it become a oppressive culture for individuals, and especially children and young people. TV 2 yesterday had a TV report about closed religious communities. I would like to ask the Council of State: what will the Council of State do to ensure that this type of activity does not take place in closed religious and life views?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1879	I'm glad of that question. The documentary that TV 2 showed documents things, events and stories that upset me, and that I think we need to do more to prevent them. In a liberal democracy, it is not that we only support the religious communities we like, and cut to the ones we don't like, but in the legislation that the government has proposed to the Stortinget, it is now, as I was told, clearer leads to state aid. There are, for example, violation of Norwegian law, violation of children’s rights and negative social control as a guide. But maybe so important I think it's that openness lies there, that we're going to get more reporting on what's happening, that the statesmen can follow up when there's special things that they're busy with, in order to be able to oversee the religious communities. Taking State aid alone can also lead to an even greater closure of religious communities, making it even worse for members.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1886	I recognise – and I think it is good – that the Council of State is so concerned about what is happening in the closed religious and life-view societies as well. That's good. What I find a little bit more strange and unclear is when the Council of State presents in the message of belief and outlook that if they violate Norwegian law, there will be an opportunity to deprive the communities of belief and life of support. I then ask questions about the Discrimination Act, for example, and the Equality Act. We have Jehovah’s witnesses, who refuse to vote, or who exclude them if they vote. Here the council goes around the cave and is very fuzzy. So when the Council of State says that the rules have become clearer, I wonder: Jehovah’s Witnesses are part of those who may lose their support?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1893	Thanks for the start of the line, I appreciate that. I am pleased that the representative also focuses on this, and I hope that we can find common, good regulatory solutions. What matters to me is that the assessment that I asked the State to make regarding Jehovah’s Witnesses is based on today’s legislation. If the Stortinge adopts the law that we have proposed, it will need to be re-assessed. So being able to say what will be the case or not, I can't do, it'll be up to the County to make that assessment. But then I would like to make it clear that when a religious community loses state aid, it may sound like the matter has been resolved. But I also want to warn you that, because many of these religious communities have, as TV 2 documented yesterday, very large capital, they have large incomes, and the support is not so very important to them, so the consequences of it can actually be the opposite of what one wants to achieve. It's an important perspective to bring with it when we're going to deal with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1902	I'm very concerned that we're going to do something political in terms of what was revealed yesterday, but I'm not sure what, so this is going to be interesting in the future. What I want to talk about is really church politics. We in the Center Party are very busy helping the Norwegian Church to recruit for performances in the districts. That's why we've given it extra money. Yesterday, I realized that the University of Tromsø has decided to freeze the theology study there, which leads to the closure of it, and then we have a problem in the north that there are no study places for important jobs you need to recruit. I hope the Minister of the Church has some clear opinions about the father by making such a study offer when we have a challenge of recruitment to the church – at least if he's as busy as I am of the fact that the Church actually needs priests in order to be alive around the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1911	This is an area that lies under the minister of research and higher education, and I have not read this case either, so here I cannot give a full answer. But I'm fully sharing the commitment of the representative. The Norwegian Church has become an independent legal entity, so they will be allowed to lay down their strategies for recruiting priests themselves. What I also record is that very many people who have taken theology education, do not work as priests. Ensuring opportunities for continuing training for others to enter the profession, I think it may be important. Otherwise, I would say that the continuation of such a good budget for the Norwegian Church is important for the possibilities of ensuring recruitment and good working conditions. I share the commitment to the representative, and then the people's church will find the best solutions itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1920	The evening post has revealed quite worrying conditions in several places where closed educational or leisure facilities with long-stay accommodation are available. We know very little about what's going on in those settings, and so it's religious communities that arrange this. It's not open to the public, and it's not open to supervision. We don't know if it can be like a lot of fears, that there's a lot of negative social control and segregation going on. At the same time, the religious communities that implement these offers, whatever they are, receive state aid — as other religious communities do. Therefore, SV has notified that if State aid is received, there should be a requirement for transparency around that type of offer. Is there anything the Council of States can also consider, so that we can find out what's going on?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1927	Thank you for an important question. A dilemma in this case is exactly what the representative is about: that it's not good to know what it is, whether it's SFO or a religious community that only has a leisure offer for children and young people. Openness also thinks I am the key, on which the representative is inside, and as he certainly knows, it is a criterion in the law that is being dealt with in Stortinget. We believe that reporting on different activities will be important both for raising the awareness of religious communities in many fields, and also for getting a better overview. As I said earlier, it will also provide a basis for the statesmen to consider asking for even more reporting based on the information. I also think the municipality should have a good dialogue with religious communities to know what's going on locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1934	Thank you for a good answer. The second issue in this situation is whether until there is transparency and supervision of what is happening in these religious communities, the Norwegian law should allow that kind of offer. The second SV has announced, therefore, that in so far as closed nights’ accommodation is provided over a long period of time with great concern for negative social control and segregation in the direction of religious communities, we do not believe that this should be allowed. Does the Council of State Ropstad think that this kind of offer, when they're closed, should be legal? Or does he share SV’s concern – that if such things happen in enclosed spaces, should this not be allowed under Norwegian law?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1941	I can't comment on SV's concrete proposal because I have a little trouble seeing what the frame is. I have fought against day-to-day kindergartens and SFO offers, so that matter is fine. But one also knows that there are a lot of activities taking place under the control of different religious communities. In many places, including where I grew up, most people in the village were involved in various activities at the prayer house. The tower agents – that’s what the Norwegian Church is called – even have overnight stays in the church. I understand that there is a big difference between that and what might happen here, but it is also important that one does not create a code that is impossible to deal with and impossible to supervise. I'm concerned with openness to know what's going on, and I also put a heavy responsibility on those who are going to supervise. When someone knows that something should be done, I expect it to be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1948	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1953	An important feature of the Workers' Party is that we conduct a redistributive economic policy: those with the least gain more. One important feature of the Solberg administration is to distribute cash, especially to those with the most, at the expense of those who have the least. The sum of the tax cuts is annually up to 25.5 billion. NOK, and accumulated tax cuts are up to 107 billion. kr. The differences are deliberately increased and the provision of the welfare society is weakened by a weak local economy. In the case of volunteering, the right-hand rule fails altogether. Let me mention three important statements. The first concerns the pension of non-governmental organisations: last week, government parties were given a majority to change pension payments to non-governmental organisations. The right-handering tells e.g. Red Cross, Norwegian People's Aid, Sanitary Women and Norwegian Sports Association that they now need to raise $180 million. kr itself. The working party did not support this proposal. The second concerns VAT compensation: the government has already made a small voice contribution to stepping up the compensation scheme. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party chose to further strangle the contribution, they cut 15 million. kr without justification. In the evening post, Freedom Norway describes it as such – and to the representative Tage Pettersen: This is not my calculation: ‘$15 million is equivalent to the fact that children and parents have to sell 3.6 million extra rolls of doping paper or 750,000 extra cake boxes to neighbors and colleagues. The sum of all equipment to be paid for the participation of children and young people is only increasing. Therefore, cutting money to the breadth of volunteering goes most far beyond those families that have the least previous.’ The gap between applicants and government appropriations is only increasing. The third point is the voluntary centres: the total lack of commitment of right-wing government to district policy, in addition to the lack of respect for volunteering, is shown here. The volunteers have had an offensive and secure financial basis, so that we have volunteer centres in all parts of the country. The policy of right-wing governance creates insecurity, poorer supply and even dismantling and decommissioning of centres, despite the fact that everyone sees it as an extensive distribution of funds from local communities in the districts to cities, and despite the fact that many small communities already have less resources and fewer and more vulnerable offers to citizens. Then the Storting treated Innst. 333 S for 2014-2015 on task transfer, there was broad consensus that areas of culture and volunteering were also involved in transfers from the country. I therefore challenged the State Council of Skei Grande in Stortinget's oral Question Time on October 23rd this year that the government is once again changing the funding of the centres, and I drew attention to the serious consequences this had. Then the council repeatedly said that the Workers' Party was in favour of, and had voted for, this. She also said the following: “When it turns out that you don’t like the consequences, it’s okay to turn around, but don’t say you haven’t been for it.” And she quoted the setting. Perhaps this is difficult for the Minister of Culture, but it will be and is wrong. The working party has been and is clear that we do not want to move the volunteer centres. We were and are concerned about securing the economy and activity throughout the country, not only in the cities. I would therefore like to quote what the Minister of Culture skillfully failed to quote from the same position: ‘The members of the Committee of the Workers’ Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left point out that the hearing bodies strongly warn against the government’s funding of voluntary centres falling away and that the centres should be financed by the framework of the municipalities. Volunteer centres are not subject to any legal obligation and are therefore very vulnerable when municipal budgets become too tight. These members will therefore oppose this proposal as presented in this Communication.’.» It would be nice if the State Council Schei Grande instead of producing a fictional turnaround at the Workers' Party had cared more about the many negative hearings in the case. The Labour Party said, and said, that volunteering centres should be supported through the cultural budget. Perhaps, in particular, the Council of State should refrain from quoting only parts of an adjustment. Can the Council of State confirm that she did not quote the Workers' Party's opinion in that reply? And can the Council of State also contribute to the creation of new points of speech to the committee chairperson, as I heard, repeated this false claim in his intervention instead?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e1989	In the reply, I asked the representative of the Workers' Party's Trettebergstuen about what she would put out of cultural tasks for the regions if she had her own choice. The answer was discouraging. For in the Labour Party, one is more concerned about criticising than about providing an alternative. It shall be reversed, more money shall be spent on everything, and neither its own budget nor its own policy shall be sacrificed to a single critical idea. The Workers' Party is no longer the governing party we knew from Norwegian politics. While we could count on the Workers' Party and the Right to join forces on the major reforms, that time has passed. A regional reform was necessary in order to transfer more tasks to the counties and thus move power out of Oslo to the districts. In fact, the Labour Party has also proposed this before. That proposal remained in a drawer. I'm going to admit that it disappoints me. For the right, it has been important to move tasks out of the capital, including in the cultural field. It doesn't seem like it's for the Workers' Party. In order to give tasks to the states, we need to let go of tasks in the state. Then we have to trust that the states are able to handle the problems we're transferring. Then we have to dry up and let go of the problems even though over the years we have been happy to have them on the state budget. For the Right, the most important thing in this case is to move power out of Oslo. There is decentralisation in practice, and it is disappointing to see that the Workers' Party does not want to be part of it. The gift-enhancing scheme has contributed to the release of private gifts for art and cultural purposes for several hundred million dollars. It appears to be an incentive for institutions to obtain external funding themselves. Those who work systematically and are good at getting private funds are rewarded with gift strengthening. As the representative Wold referred to instead, 25 kroner are given for each hundred bill. I think that's a fairly fair arrangement. The gift enhancement shall be awarded independently of geographical location. Applications for grants from the gift enhancement scheme are dealt with in chronological order. Those who have submitted a complete application in accordance with the guidelines receive grants as long as there is money left within the framework. So there's no geographically embedded bias in the gift enhancement scheme. The scheme stimulates more private investment in culture. It provides the basis for more art and culture by making more money to implement plans and projects, and it gives more institutions more opportunities to stand on and secure the spread of power. That's a total of 357.5 million. kr in gift enhancement in the years 2014–2019. These are fresh substances without bindings that contribute to more culture throughout Norway. The working party wishes to remove the gift-enhancing scheme. Why don't I understand. They believe that the funds are distorted geographically. It has nothing to do with the arrangement's arrangements, it's just that you haven't been good enough to work strategically and systematically in all parts of the country to trigger gift enhancement. I hope here, for example. My own home country, Finnmark, in the future chooses to work more strategically and systematically to obtain external funding in order to trigger gift enhancement to a greater extent than today. One might wonder if the Workers' Party is against this because they want to manage the funds more. That is in itself a legitimate argument, but I disagree. I believe in a system where it's going to pay off working for external funding, where it's going to be possible to be rewarded for long-term, strategic and systematic work on it, and where the state still takes part of the bill. I am proud that the Right introduced the gift-enhancing system when we came into government. Because whatever you think about the geography of the system, it's clear that it's given over 350 million. health funds for culture in that country, and that is exclusively positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e2012	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e2017	The archive company has not been commented on in the settings of any other party than the Centre. The future of state archives is now central. Professionals have long been concerned about the future of the reorganization of the Swedish Archives Agency, and the Centre has promoted three Document 8 proposals on the matter – both in 2016, 2017 and 2018. We've gone to have eight regional state archives as our own institutions with state archives that have local management. However, professionals have always felt that there has been a confusion of state archives, and we have now come into the situation that the various state archives do not have direct e-mails or telephones for themselves, and they no longer have Facebook pages, so it is difficult for users to reach them. The last one is that Menon Economics, commissioned by the Swedish Archives Agency in October of this year, presented the report «Geographical problem-solving and presence of the Archives». A management group has been set up for the mission and the report states: ‘The Archives need increased space for action and management flexibility in their task-solving in order to prioritise digitisation work, while adequately managing the physical archive material. The digitisation effort is held back by the geographical presence and task-solving of the Swedish Archives Agency adapted to the management of physical archive material.’;» In addition, it says: ‘Increased digitisation means that the Swedish Archives need increased economic space for action and management flexibility in their task-solving.’ We have got a new expression: ‘increased economic space’ – it is well-known in Norwegian as ‘saving money’. There has been a situation in which one proposes to reduce the number of workplaces from eight to two, or that others take responsibility – and that is the county municipality or municipalities – or that the local tasks be solved by outsourcing the tasks, i.e. private doing them. The government's work on the reorganization of the Archives has now come so far that those who have been frustrated over this long time experience that the future of the State Archives has now come. Large public resources have been used to build up the state archives as regional cultural institutions. It's very important. Digitalisation is very important, but the reality today is that it is 270 km – shelf meters – physical archives to be digitised, and it takes a long time. It is a cultural policy mispractice to address this proposal, and the Council of State must therefore safeguard the State archives. The central question is: what will the State Council do to stop the National Archives from implementing this?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e2040	It is nice that the Minister of Culture is back in the Chamber now that I will greet all of us who come from a small or medium-sized municipality and who will soon be able to lose our volunteer headquarters. From 2021, voluntary funding through the many volunteer centres of the country will range from being distributed per volunteer centre to a sum per capita as part of the community grant to the municipalities. This will be a centralisation of the means of volunteering that will hit smaller communities hard. The government knows this. The total sum of the state that will be distributed is about the same, but new distribution has very serious consequences for the majority of municipalities throughout the country. For volunteer centres, it would work against their intention to remove ear-marked substances that have worked for 30 years. The grant goes from hundreds of thousands of dollars to tens of thousands in many municipalities. Volunteers give people meeting places and tie it up voluntarily and publicly. The volunteers make us get more together and give the people a lot for the money. The centre party has full confidence in local politicians, and we therefore also receive clear feedback when the grant to the volunteer centres is converted and changed from distribution per municipality to distribution per capita. This means that places with fewer inhabitants get much heavier conditions than they've had. They fear for their future. For the 2019 budget, a corresponding amendment was proposed for veterinary supplements. This was answered with ramaskrik and protests. Why should people's rich strokes have a better economy for the veterinary service than for those where fewer people live? Fortunately, the government also realized that it was a bad idea, and it was stopped. This year we get exactly the same problem for the volunteer agencies. I have to ask: why should people's rich strokes have a better economy for volunteers than they would for those who live where fewer people live? We're champions of local self-government, but there must be financial assumptions in place. Therefore, it is difficult to understand why government parties want to put trust and volunteer centres against each other, at the expense of volunteering in the districts. People elected in the municipalities will meet the ends, but the funds spent on volunteering centres will now have to be explored between other priorities, such as school and care for the elderly. The centroid plus 140 million. kr to the volunteer centres compared to the government's proposals and among the opposition parties is also the most dissidently happy in the volunteer centres. We hope that the Council of State will take that with us, and that the struggle for the volunteers is not over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e2055	Religion and vision of life are a fundamental dimension of many people's lives. In addition to being a religious community, the Church is an important bearer of tradition and culture. In order to get the people's church that we in the Center Party want, and to maintain the Church's presence locally through active church work, pastoral services in all parishes and religious training, the Centre Party believes it is essential to maintain a strong and predictable economy for the Norwegian Church. The Central Party therefore proposes in its alternative budget to increase the appropriations allocated to the Norwegian Church. We're proposing $3 million. kr more for slide adjustment, 5 mill. NOK 20 million to Seaman's Church. DKK for church buildings and 4 million. to a programme for the recruitment of clerics in the districts. Pre-recruitment is currently the biggest challenge for all the local environment around it to have a people’s church in operation – for use in the great moments of life, at the most sad moments and as a meeting point both religiously and when the community needs to meet together. In addition, the Central Party is increasing its support for other religious and life-seeking societies by 5.8 million. kr in its alternative budget. I mentioned 20 million. kr extra from us in the Center Party to church buildings. It is to our peaceful, protective church buildings that are younger than the medieval churches. In the Middle Ages, we have worked hard in the Center Party to repair for many years, and a lot of money is needed here. But our 30 million. kr extra at that post in addition to what the government has to offer, is a good start to a program for this, which we want us asap. The reason why we're so concerned with these medieval churches is the central party's and my own great commitment to our cultural memories, the collective memory of society. Our cultural heritage contributes with knowledge, stories, experiences and giving us identity, roots and tradition. The Central Party has repeatedly pointed out in budgetary proceedings that the Government does not pursue the national objectives of cultural memory protection. Year after year, a weaker budget is provided than the targets were to be set, as well as this year. It's disappointing. But I know that at least in our committee there is a cross-political commitment to cultural memories, something like that. the joint remark that Bane NOR must now take responsibility for the Tinnos Railway. I therefore look forward to the joint work of the Committee on the forthcoming call for cultural memory. Until then, all those who are concerned that we should ensure, preserve and disseminate our cultural memories in the best possible way can depend on us in the Centre Party continuing to keep this tab high forward, as we do in our alternative budget for 2020. That's where we give priority to cultural memory protection by over 100 million. kr more than the government, in addition to the above 50 million. kr for the refurbishment and maintenance of medieval churches and other churches. Then I look forward to discussing these things, too, when, after Christmas, we are going to deal with the communication about the Information Society's fund, for which I am the case rapporteur. I'm glad.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e2066	It's good to be happy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e2071	Errors that are repeated do not become minor errors for that reason, and there is hardly any reason not to be honest to find anything about the position's policy of arrest. In fact, it is not cut into the VAT compensation scheme until next year – it is increased by 77 million. kr compared to 2019, and the gap between the applications and the size of the budget does not increase and does not increase continuously, as was said by this speaker. On the contrary, on two occasions we are on record 18 pst. curtailment of the VAT compensation scheme this year and it has decreased in the last two years. Drawing a picture of the municipal economy that shows that the municipalities are facing the financial blackout is not correct either, when we know that at the end of this year there are ten municipalities left in the ROBEK register. The debate on volunteer centres can certainly be angled in several ways, but no matter what the point of view, the debate will be better if we all choose to deal with the facts that actually exist. In 2020, 200 million will be allocated. D on the budget of the Ministry of Local Government and Modernisation of the Centres for Volunteers, an increase of 114.5 million. kr in 2013, and the increase from this year to the next year is SEK 13 million. kr, i.e. an increase – I just repeat it. However, 42 out of 356 municipalities do not have a volunteer centre in 2020, and municipalities that have organised voluntary work differently from a central one do not receive money through the current distribution of funds. This could contribute to the inclusion of the grant in the framework grants of the municipalities, so that real local policy priorities can be established. There is also reason to recall that the proposal to transfer responsibility for grants to volunteer centres was promoted in Meldning. St. 14 for 2014–2015, Municipal Reform – new tasks for larger municipalities. In its opinion, the majority of the Committee, the members of the Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left, said that 'communities should be given greater and more overall responsibility in the areas of volunteering, prevention and public health'. But it may not apply to this kind of volunteering. There will also be a small paradox when the national government of the KS states that they are positive that several earmarked grants are included in the framework grants of the local government, as this facilitates real local policy priorities, but when it comes to voluntary centres, the same logic is no longer applicable. I have great faith that local politicians – and I have a lot of experience myself – want to maintain good offers for their citizens, not just because they receive state support for it, but because they see that it benefits their own community.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e2084	Freedom has been a topic of this debate, and it is very good, because we are all dependent on great voluntary efforts in Norway, whether in culture, sports arenas or mental health. We're dependent on a lot of people who want to participate. I would like to remind you that we have a historical increase in the budget in terms of VAT compensation. I understand that the opposition wants to produce this in a negative light, but there is an increase from 2013 of over 700 million. kr. That means something to the many, and that's 80 pst. which is now actually being curtailed by its VAT compensation. It's also historic. It was said by the representative Trettebergstuen that it was the most distressing municipal economy of 15 years. We have a good municipal economy in Norway. There is the same growth in free income per capita as under the previous government, and there have never been so few municipalities on the famous ROBEK list. We have good operating results in the municipalities, and the municipal expenditure on people is also slightly less than before. By the end of 2019, there were only 10 municipalities on the ROBEK list, in 2016 it was actually 46, so producing this as a description of misery is not correct. I just want to remind the representative from the Center Party, who wants to cut posts in the Cultural Council, that the consultants here are the artists involved in peer review of applications. I think it's incredibly important to keep them and keep just this arm's length distance that it's the Cultural Council that decides and not the ministry. This government has been very concerned about it, and the Culture Council has been given more tasks. I would also like to give a visit to SV, which sets out the similarity between the gift enhancement scheme and the market and commerce, as it is called. We've wanted to mobilise business, we've wanted to motivate business and not least institutions to make business in their community contribute. They're very good at contributing in sports, but we're also concerned that they should contribute in culture, and they have.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e2095	As a slightly cumulative comment to many of the posts from the position today, it's almost a little tempting to ask them to come out and look at reality. There are some strange things that are being said, and strange comments that are being attached to this budget, for example. in the whole field of voluntary activity. Have not the major concerns and protests of the volunteer agencies in most municipalities been brought along? Anything that can crawl and go of volition protests at this. Our e-mail inboxes are being filled in correctly. The media are full of concerns because, in one area at a time, centralisation is being carried out and the differences between cities and countries are increasing. Volunteer centres in small municipalities in the districts are in danger of being laid down or have to endure such a large cut that they have to drastically reduce their activity – while here it is just said that everything is fine and great, that volunteer centres are still to be found, and that there are even some private ones. What does it do for the volunteers in Grue, Tolga or Ås that there is a private volunteer that goes well when they themselves are in danger of being laid down? It does not matter that there are fewer municipalities on the ROBEK list when most municipal government representatives now sit in the autumn and adopt large, painful cuts in municipal budgets that do not go up. It's the worst municipal economy in 15 years. Just in the town of Mjøs, where I come from, you have to cut for half a billion dollars. This is one of the reasons why the Workers' Party warns against the so-called regionalisation plan linked to cultural tasks. We see that more and more tasks are being carried over into the regions and municipalities. Maybe the money goes with it for a couple of years, so it's visible, but then they don't, and everything goes in the same swallow. What is it that loses when culture is going to be set up against legal tasks that are about life and health, in an increasingly needy economy, because that's what it's going to be under this government? We've seen it before. The cultural walking stick disappeared when it was inserted into the frame. Now the same thing happens to the volunteer agencies. We don't want this to happen. We're in favour of a greater regional and local commitment to cultural tasks, but then we have to build it up from below, not disassemble the state agency and split it up. That's why the Workers' Party has another way, another plan. We want to build it up. We want regional cultural funds. That's what makes it possible to create new tasks locally. The gift enhancement scheme is not fair use of state money. You're a rich man like me. has a foundation, you can give money to your own foundation, and it triggers State aid. It's unfair use of money.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e2106	The municipal economy is mentioned. I lead the municipal committee, and I have now asked the municipal government representatives country and beach around how they are doing. I've got a long list of cuts. First comes the claim that you've been very good at local economy. Yes, an average annual growth of 1.2 pst., while when the red-greens were set, the annual growth was 1.8 pst. Every year, it's 2.4 billion. kr in difference, and it'll be a little bit when you accumulate it over several years. It's noticed. It is true that some municipalities – and I say some – have had increased revenues, because that is true. But for some of the municipalities that have received it, there is temporary income. They're gone now, and now the government has tried to cut down the municipalities' ability to collect their own income through the property tax. Now the municipalities report that they have bad advice: Hustadvika 42 million. kr ned, Vestre Toten 40 mil. DKr down, Bodø 300 million. $26 million. kr ned, Salangen 19 mill. kr n, Ørland 40 million. Down, Jevnaker 11 million. kr down, Stjørdal 15 mill. Down, Stange 20 million. Senja, SEK 41 million. kr down – and I could continue. Now I've been involved in a lot of debates here, and in every debate when we talk about care for the elderly, it's like the municipalities are going to spend the money on it. Then we talked about school, and then there was money for teachers. Now there is money both for child protection and for volunteer centres. But that's not it. The municipalities have to sit and choose between these things, because now the income is not there, and the local economy is getting much worse until next year. Then I think you should hear both the volunteer centres and the KS when they say that it is necessary to label this. The prerequisites for doing this are not the same. Then you lose the good opportunity to trigger all the volunteer work. The representative Mr. Örmen Johnsen was up and talking about expenses for particularly resource-intensive services. There the government has increased the municipal prowess since they joined, by over 1 billion. kr. There is money that municipalities can't afford, because there are very sick people – you almost have to rig up a small hospital department, also because the government has a very sharp printing policy. It's in this landscape the culture is going to be able to fight for the crowns. It's in this landscape the volunteer will be able to fight for the crowns. It's not going to go. It's getting poor, and it's stupid. SV will give priority to good communities that have the capacity to have volunteer centres and culture. It's best for people.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e2117	Now the Minister of State came to the Chamber. It was an appropriate time, so I'm sure some of those things can be answered. I'm going to try to say something about what processes we've started on the question that the representative Lundteg had. This budget has the biggest digitisation effort in history. We can now be in the front of the world to digitize the Norwegian cultural heritage, and in a few years we can be up-to-date with a lot of important databases. But there are also many other, parallel, processes going on – some with which the department has a clear governance, and some with which we have great confidence that the various archival agencies will work. We are also trying to achieve stronger cooperation and a clear division of responsibilities between the National Library and the National Archives, because they both have important roles in achieving this. Then we have launched an archival law committee, which has delivered its position to the government, and which we now have at the hearing to find out how to get to a orderly decision on how to get to Stortinget with the different law changes. It's such a big and fundamental change in the way to think about archives that we have to do this step by step if we're going to be able to get to the goal. I am also aware that the Swedish Archives Agency has made an investigation that goes on the number of locations and where they should be. We have not taken any position at all. It's an internal assessment, and we're going to decide when it comes to our table. But we have to let our archives evaluate these different locations without instructing them from day one, so we get back to the distribution between the different locations. So I just want to say two things about numbers and facts in this debate that I think have been a little bit dull. You keep talking about cuts where you have additions. I honestly think that we can discuss disagreements in the cultural budget, but sometimes I wonder if I would have been better at writing the opposition posts than the opposition has been, because the opposition finds a cut that doesn't exist. There's a huge increase in VAT compensation. The sport got 94.1 million a few days ago. kr more in VAT compensation. I don't think the sport sees it as a cut. We have doubled the use of money to volunteer centres, and we have had a great build-up of many of these support schemes. Take us where we disagree, but don't say that we've cut things where we've built up completely systematically.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e2135	I want to start from the 2014 Culture Development, which was leased by former Minister of Culture Anne Enger. As an overarching goal for national cultural policy, the selection produced three banners: democracy, justice and diversity – nothing less. The selection was concerned that the cultural base wall had to be strengthened. In concrete terms, funds were earmarked for public libraries, cultural schools, choirs, corps and practice facilities, etc. I agree with everyone who has stressed the importance of young people’s participation in cultural activities, both in order to enjoy their own chiselling, in order to gain good experiences, in order to participate in the community and in the cause of reading. It's an important part of the formation that's going to do one for the benefit of people in the home, school and society, as it is called in the base world before. One point in the 2014 Cultural Development that has gained less attention and less follow-up is two other important interventions that have been developed, namely the culture of expression and the community of disunity. I will allow myself to quote a little from the statement: ‘The description of the culture of expression refers to what is otherwise referred to as the public space or public space. The fact that cultural establishments are an important part of the public space also means that they are an important part of the infrastructure of democracy. Cultural enterprises promote democracy by providing arenas or meeting places for public discussion, by contributing to the attainment of the freedom of expression and information in society, by contributing to the processes of formation, by being catalysts for the formation of opinion, by having a civilising effect and by contributing to the ‘disunity community’.» Inconsistency — one should contribute to civilisation and contribute to a community of differences. This I think we're not too busy discussing, it's both the role of the party and the role of cultural life. We have different opinions and different positions in our society, but being able to live in peaceful coexistence with different points of view and let opinions break in public conversation is a very central challenge in our democracy. There is not a single promise of the Ministry of Culture's budget for this, but we can all contribute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e2149	Much has been said about the local economy, but I would nevertheless point out that it is also about how local politicians prioritise. Because under the same framework and with the same conditions, we actually also see in Kommune-Norway that there is a difference in how the parties prioritize. In the reply earlier today, I drew Stavanger out as an example where both the SV, the Workers' Party and the rest of the majority have been involved in using just culture and volunteering as a balancing post, not because they had to, but because they prioritised other things. Stavanger was drawn out as an example just because that's the latest example. Then I was criticized by the representative Tritenbergstien that she couldn't find any left-hand municipalities where you could point to priorities, but creativity didn't have to be that big, you could just look at what Left did in just Stavanger just before this new majority took over. I can also point to my own city, here in Oslo, where we also see more cultural organisations and institutions being cut, not least around several of the urban areas where the Workers' Party has been involved in governing. There is precisely the priority of volunteering. There's something about this -- real priorities. But the reason why several of us in the position react when the opposition attacks schemes like the gift-enhancing scheme is not that that scheme is the only blessing, but that it is an example of how we see that business can also be used to build culture – not to replace public responsibility, not to replace our responsibility for having a good cultural life, but to help build it up. In a desperate community economic situation, it should be a welcome initiative. As a left-wing representative, I must say that good entrepreneurial policy is also good artistic policy. And if there's anything this government, led by the Left, can do better than the opposition, it's just that. As the opposition increases the tax burden and reverses the rebate on entrepreneurial capital, they do nothing to strengthen the schemes that are most important to small businesses and to self-employed people, as artists often do. They do not use one additional crown on the Capital Findings Scheme, the TaxFUNN Scheme or the Option Scheme. The sum of this becomes less investment in the private sector, which does not benefit the artists. These things have to be seen in context, and business can also be involved and contribute to building a good and strong Norwegian cultural life.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e2160	I'm a little confused about the government parties' belief in the politicians – or disbelief. On the one hand, they say that they should transfer all the important tasks to the municipalities, and on the other hand they criticise the municipalities, for example. Cuts into non-statutory tasks. Stavanger has prioritised child protection – one of the municipalities that has done so. But that doesn't mean you can sit and point down at the local politicians all the time. In fact, we are adopting the budgets here at Stortinget, and that is the budget debate we are in. So a little bit to the VAT compensation system, because the Council of State was a little worried that we were talking about cuts. I can only ask the Council of State to answer a simple question – if she listens now. At Stortinget there was a negotiation that contributed to 15 million kroner. kr disappeared from the VAT compensation scheme. If it's not cut, I don't know. State Council Skei Grande also did not answer my question in the spontaneous Question Time on 23 October. Then she said, “When it turns out that you don’t like the consequences, it’s okay to turn around, but don’t say you haven’t been for it.” She therefore believed that the Workers' Party was in favour of the funding mechanism of moving volunteer centres to the municipalities. I just want to show that a little further out in the same setting, which Skei Grande didn't come up with, it says: ‘The members of the Committee of the Workers’ Party, the Centre Party and the Left i point out that the hearing bodies strongly warned against the disappearance of State funding for voluntary centres and that the centres should be financed by the local authorities’ framework. Volunteer centres are not subject to any legal obligation and are therefore very vulnerable when municipal budgets become too tight. These members will therefore oppose this proposal as presented in this Communication.’.» It would be nice if the State Council Schei Grande, instead of producing a fictional turnaround in the Workers' Party, had cared more about the many negative hearings in the case. The Labour Party said, and said, that the volunteers should be supported through the cultural budget. Perhaps, in particular, the Council of State should refrain from quoting parts of an adjustment. Can she confirm that she did not quote the Workers' Party's opinion in that reply, and will she make new speech points to Mrs. Johnsen, who also repeated that explanation from the pulpit?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e2179	From my memory, I quoted just from the announcement that the Workers' Party agreed with us that volunteering was one of the areas where it was important that the municipalities had more right to control. And I just have to say that a little bit because we thought this would create resistance, we've gone in and doubled our support -- so the transition would be smaller, that there would be more money, that it would be easier to do it. I'm a little upset about the many negative feedbacks and that you never care about those who can never afford a flight ticket to Oslo, all those who work on volunteering in other ways, all those municipalities that haven't been so lucky to get a volunteer center, even though we've increased by almost 100 pieces, because they work voluntarily in other ways. We, who are politicians in this country, are going to take responsibility for this whole spectrum of people, including those who never have heavy interest groups behind them that can be involved in and on to keep everything as it is. I am concerned that we should have the most voluntary, that volunteering should not be governed by the state, that volunteering should be built from below. Thinking that from this room you can decide the only blessing for what is good volunteering policy in the municipalities, I cannot agree. There may have been many assessments of how these transitional arrangements are to be and how they are to be answered by the Minister of State. But we have always believed that a broad majority has believed that voluntary policy is best built from below. It's producing 80 million. kr plus as a minus, is pretty creative. I also believe that the opposition can blame us for things we really haven't added to, because there are items. I can help the opposition find those posts if it's very problematic for them to find items we haven't added, but the VAT compensation we have added. It's just taking a simple Google search, which I put and did on my cell phone here, on how much more organizations now get. I mentioned that it was over 94 million. kr for the sport of VAT compensation. With a simple search, I found that the art associations were super happy that they got hundreds of thousand extra dollars in VAT compensation this year because it's added so much. It's not possible to produce 80 million. kr i plus as a minus. It's quite creative bookkeeping.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e2190	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e2207	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e2224	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e2241	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e2258	Let me just briefly explain the setting of the committee. The amendments to the Broadcasting Act only involve a technical clean-up of the legislative text as a result of the conversion of the funding of the NRC from broadcasting fee to budget funding. The Broadcasting Act contains a number of provisions relating to the broadcasting charge, which are in principle no longer relevant for the transition to the budgetary funding of the NRC from 1 January 2020 onwards. However, after 1 January 2020, the NRK will also have outstanding broadcasting fee requirements that relate to the period before the transition to a new model and the balances will be addressed on an ongoing basis. The changes we are adopting today provide a legal basis for the collection of claims due even after the transition to a new funding model. In this position, we also deal with changes to the Act on Changes to the Discrimination Ombudsman Act and the Equality and Discrimination Act, which was adopted by Stortinget on 17 June 2019, and which enters into force on 1 January 2020. The bill currently under consideration shall correct errors in that amending law. The proposals concern only minor details corrections and do not involve any material changes. The Committee notes that the Ministry notes that the proposed changes do not entail any new measures, duties or rights, either for individuals or business. The Committee endorses the proposed amendments.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e2273	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e2289	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, three lines will be given, with replies from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e2296	This case concerns the necessary adaptations of the Finnish Law after the merger of Troms and Finnmark into one state. The adaptations have been proposed to ensure that the original intentions of the Finnmark Act are satisfactorily respected even after the merger. The geographical scope of the law shall continue to be Finnmark, and the law is intended to satisfy its citizens there. It is explicitly stated that any use of surplus of Finnmark’s own business should only be eligible for the benefit of Finnmark’s inhabitants. The government proposes that the bodies of the Finnmark property be chosen by the future county of Troms and Finnmark County, and that the members to be elected should be resident in Finnmark. The management of the Finnmark property must therefore be anchored there. Finnmark County Council has stated that they do not consider the proposed regime for the choice of Finnmark property to be satisfactory, and the members of the Committee from the opposition have pointed this out in their comments. The parties to the Government consider that the solutions proposed are practical and cost-effective. In addition, there is a unanimous committee behind the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e2307	It is necessary to link a few comments to this case, which is actually a consequence of the fact that the government parties in June 2017 had a pure overrun of the people's will out there and coerced the states. The Labour Party has consistently voted against the coercion of states, but we just have to realize that the majority used power to say, even though it was never so poorly justified. That is why we now have the Finnish Law on treatment. In our remarks, we mention that the Finnish county council is expressing its opinion and believes that the matter is not sufficiently investigated, and that the government has not considered well enough the proposals put forward and presented by the Finnish county council, and we support the Finnmark state in this criticism. In such a case, which is really a serious matter as a result of this coercive practice, it is unfortunate that one could not or could not reach a greater agreement in the consultations conducted between the Sametinget, Finnmark County Municipality and the Government. With that said, it is not impossible for us to get this case back to Stortinget in a few years, but then with a completely different starting point.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e2316	In the context of the regional reform and the merger of Troms and Finnmark, proposals have been made for amendments to the Finnish Law, presented by the chairman of the committee, and, as the chairman of the committee said, it is a unanimous committee that supports the vote. Nevertheless, the centre party also wants to attach some comments to our comments and to what makes us stand behind the setting. I think it is fundamentally unfortunate that no agreement was reached in the consultations between the Sametinget, the County and the Department. However, following an overall assessment, we believe that the proposal now being presented, with the clarifications made by the Ministry on the basis of consultation, will ensure that the Finnmarks Act benefits Finnmark's inhabitants and geographical areas. The centre party would point out that today's amendment to the law is seen as a temporary solution to the dissolution of the coercive states. Finnmark County Council and Sametinget believe that the Department has failed to investigate the consequences and current alternatives in a good enough way. The county municipality has proposed the creation of a separate electoral body or representation chosen by the municipalities of Finnmark as an alternative to the county representatives in the new region choosing the members of the board and the control committee of the Finnmark property. Alternatively, the Finnmark bench in the new county shall be able to provide these options. It is an option supported by Sametinget. Today, three members shall be elected to the Board of Directors of the Finnish State of Sametinget in plenary, and three members shall be elected by the county council. The Ministry concludes that it is most appropriate not to create a new body whose task is only to be a precise electoral body. It will mean more administration and bureaucracy, and it will be a more expensive solution. When the new region becomes one constituency, there may also be challenges related to the fact that a representative in Finnmark may have been in Troms, so that the composition of the Finnish mark bench may vary between the collections of things. The Central Party considers that Finnmark’s interests are safeguarded by the following: the provisions of the Act shall state that it is the area of application of the Finnmark geographical area. It is specified in the law that it is intended to accommodate residents of Finnmark. Although there are representatives in the new county who will elect members of the board of Finnmark’s property, it states that the chosen ones will be resident in Finnmark. In a new order, for the county council, it will be the way it is for the Sameting today: the elections will take place in plenary among representatives from a larger area, but those who are elected will therefore have to live in Finnmark. With regard to the distribution of any surplus from Finnmark property, it is also clarified that allocation to the county municipality should benefit the inhabitants of the demarcated area of Finnmark. In view of this, and given that it is to be regarded as a temporary solution, the Centre Party wishes to support the bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e2329	This case comes as a result of a rather unfortunate coercion, and this is one of the factors that makes it particularly difficult. Finnmark property and the conditions surrounding it have been treated here in Stortingen before, after long processes, and now you have to make changes to it. The changes are very late – not even five to twelve, it's maybe two to twelve – and it's kind of not really possible to do anything other than what the government is now proposing. But SV joins the posts that have been from both the Workers' Party and the Center's party, that we consider this a temporary arrangement, and within those frameworks, there is a system that we must accept, but that we are also critical of the fact that we have not been able to determine and cooperate better with Finnmark County Municipality and with the Conseting on the solutions that are now on the table. With all these considerations, we have seen no alternative but to vote in favour of this bill, but we also see it as a temporary solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e2338	As a result of the Stortinget decision of 8 June 2017 on the regional reform, Troms and Finnmark will be merged as of 1 January 2020. The merger makes it necessary to make changes to the Finnmarks Act in order to adapt the law to new zonings. In short, the government's proposal implies that the scope of the law is the same after the merger. That is, the law will apply to the geographical area that constitutes Finnmark County today. The Finnish law applies to the management of land and natural resources in the Finnish state. The law was passed in 2005 by a broad and cross-political majority in the United Kingdom. With the Finnmarks Act, the land in Finnmark County was transferred from state to local ownership through the Finnmark property. The foundation became common to all residents of the county, regardless of ethnicity. Some of the rules of the Finnish Law are linked to Finnmark County and its political institutions. The government seeks through this proposal to maintain the current system for Finnmark, as far as it goes within the new county organisation. This is done by proposing legislative changes that ensure that the law still applies to the same geographical area as today is Finnmark County. Through this process, the government has been concerned that Finnmark’s citizens will not come out worse after the law has come into force. That consideration is ensured by the government by proposing that there are still people living in Finnmark who will manage the Finnmark property. Tasks that have been added to Finnmark county council in today's law are proposed to the county council in the new Troms and Finnmark county council. This applies, inter alia, to: the election of members of the board of directors of the Finnmark property, the election of the control committee and the approval of the disposal of property by Finnmark property. However, there will only be persons living in the area currently forming Finnmark County, who can be appointed as the Board of Directors. I believe that the new county council in Troms and Finnmark will have a good basis for appointing board members in a good way. It is a practical solution and is equivalent to that applicable to Sametinget, where plenary appoints members of the board of directors. The Government has also proposed changes to the rules for the distribution of profits. If the Governing Board decides to distribute profits to the new county municipality, the Sameting or non-profit making purpose, the funds shall benefit residents in the area currently making up Finnmark. The distribution of profits shall not be used for purposes aimed at residents throughout the new county. I am pleased that the Committee supports the government's proposal for amendments to the Finnmarks Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e2359	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e2364	Yes, we support the proposal, but it is under compulsion. I heard the council say that she wanted to maintain the arrangements for Finnmark's inhabitants, and that it was very important. You could have done that by not coercing Troms and Finnmark. Then you wouldn't worry about that side of the case. There has been some criticism, including: that there has been no agreement in the consultations between the Ministry of the Council of State, the Sametinget and the Finnish State Municipality, so I would like to ask the Council of State: what, in the opinion of the Council of State, did not make it possible to find an agreement in the consultations you had with Finnmark County and with the Sameting?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e2371	There have been consultations, and the purpose of such consultations is, of course, to try to reach an agreement. That was also our starting point. We did not agree, simply because the Sameting wanted to discuss matters that were beyond the necessary consequence of Storting's decision to merge Troms and Finnmark. They wanted to discuss the electoral system of the board. We did not agree on that. Our starting point was to make only the changes that were necessary to make a practical change as a result of the merger, not further changes. The Finnish Law is a law that was passed after many and long debates. It is a cross-political compromise, and we wanted to touch it as much as possible. As for the County Council in Finnmark, they had a suggestion that the Finnmark bench in the new county could be selected. We believe that this is a worse system than the one we have proposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e2378	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e2384	I feel that I'm dribbling a little bit. A little over a year ago, I was standing here on this pulpit and talking about this particular matter. I then addressed myself especially to the Christian People's Party. I tried to challenge them to take a different position than they did. I didn't do that. I had then a small patch patch because it had happened something, and I tried to draw some comparisons with what is within Christianity, and a little bit of each. What's happening now isn't very strange. I guess that has to happen, what's happening right now. But I still feel that it is an injustice to people in Finnmark and to the rights of both the Sami and Norwegian people in Finnmark. People in Finnmark do not intend to give in to this matter. I was at a small meeting last night, mobilizing what is going on to mobilize to create a new government in 2021, where we aim to get a new government with a prime minister who cares about people wherever they live, and who care that law and justice apply – a prime minister and a government that respects people in a good way. So the last word is not said in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e2395	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e2411	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e2427	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines will be given with replies from members of the Government. Those who had to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e2436	The Committee has examined representatives from Karin Andersen, Lars Haltbrecken and Une Bastholm on temporary return to Afghanistan and the introduction of reasonableness conditions and an independent system of supervision for forced return. The document presented four proposals. It was a proposal to reintroduce the reasonableness condition, it was a proposal to stop all forced return to Afghanistan, it was a proposal to set up an appointment process for the Trandum Supervisory Board and a proposal to provide the Trandum Supervisory Board with its own budget and secretarial function. Two proposals have also been made during the Committee's examination. One is about to set up an expert committee to ensure transparency and reprobability in the safety assessments of return countries. Then it's a proposal to set up an external investigation committee to assess a much-reported return case to Afghanistan. I assume that the respective parties will explain their views on the matter. I would like to bring up the points of view of the Progress Party on this matter. These are issues and proposals that Stortinget has dealt with a number of times in the past. Introducing reasonable conditions has not been a majority for the past, and there is nothing to suggest that it will be. I think that's good. The principle of fairness contributed to an unforeseeable and sometimes random outcome of asylum cases. It is important to have a thorough and good process in asylum matters, which Norway has, but it is also important to take more aspects into account. The assessments previously made under this reasonable condition are assessed under Section 38 of the Foreign Affairs Act. With almost 30 million people fleeing outside their home country, it goes without saying that we have to be restrictive about granting residence in Norway in cases where effective protection could be obtained in another part of their home country. It is not unreasonable to refer people to protection in their home country if possible. The Progress Party will continue to stand firm on that. It has also been proposed to return to Afghanistan in all cases. It is important that the professional bodies assess whether it is safe to return persons to their country of origin. It shall not be subject to political proceedings. There are many disadvantages if we had introduced political treatment, as is stated in the proposal, of who can be sent to their country of origin and not. Here things can happen quickly. These assessments must be made on a continuous basis on short notice. If you are to wait for political treatment in these kinds of matters, the quality will actually be worse. It is pointed out in the SV notes that Norway is the country with the most forced return to Afghanistan. That's probably right. Norway has been at the forefront in terms of return work, and other European countries have noticed and followed, because it is seen that it is the only way to effectively enforce the rules in force. Those who are not paying for returns are countries that also have major problems with irreversibles. They have bigger problems with groundless asylum seekers coming to the border. It is difficult to understand where SV really wants to use the proposal of an expert committee to ensure the transparency and traceability of safety assessments. Today, we have the best professional bodies to assess it. The best experts provide our professional bodies with the information available, the information they need at all times to make the best possible assessments. How we're going to get others in to review these assessments is hard to imagine. I also respond to proposals to deal with individual cases. It is not unusual for individual cases relating to return to be difficult, but I believe we must have confidence that those who are set to make these difficult decisions and enforce the law do so as best they can, and I have full confidence that the authorities have followed the rules that apply.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e2455	First, I would like to thank the proposers for giving us the opportunity to discuss the principles underlying asylum and refugee policy. We must have a strict, fair and humane asylum policy, but let me also add: we must have a predictable immigration policy. For the Workers' Party, our political assessment of today's asylum policy practice is based on the following: the first is protection and legal certainty, and it must be that it is those who have the right to protection who actually get it. That is why we have Section 28 of the Foreign Affairs Act. We also have § 38, humanitarian stay, in the Foreign Affairs Act, and our own assessments where children are inside the picture. In this Chamber, we have put forward in the opposition proposals to review the appeal procedure with particular reference to opposition and verbality, and we note that the government has announced a review. We're looking forward to that. We have absolute protection against expulsion to ensure that a foreigner cannot be sent to persecution or an area where he would be in real danger of being subjected to capital punishment, torture or other inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment – important principles of asylum policy. In a world of 26 million refugees and 70 million refugees, where millions live under extremely poor conditions and generations are lost, it is not humanism and solidarity to erode the institution of asylum. In the time we live in, we have to ring a bell, and the effort must be for the real refugees. The assessment of security and the situation in each country must be carried out in depth by the foreign authorities and Landinfo. It is a demanding way to go if we, as individual representatives or as individual parties, are to assess the present situation in the light of safety assessments. It is positive that relevant civil society actors have the opportunity to propose Council members and, in this context, the proposal for the nomination process for the Trandum Supervisory Board supports its intention. I've met a lot of civil society actors who have a lot of input. Humanism is also about the conditions on Trandum, which I know have competent employees dealing with people in a very difficult situation. Volunteering will and can contribute, and we should facilitate it at Stortinget. It will improve the situation for all parties. In this case, forced return has also been highlighted through an individual case, and no matter what one would think about the handling of the individual case, which many, including the undersigned, have reacted to, I would say to those who only focus on the principle of returning or not returning as an argument that people who can return voluntarily, but not by coercion, should remain in the country: These stories actually show that forced return is not a desirable situation. It's an extreme situation, and when there's kids inside the picture, it's very tough. As a result, we must ring around the institution of asylum and ensure that as many returns as possible are carried out on a voluntary basis and with cooperation. Most people can return voluntarily, we know that. It's best for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e2470	The government's immigration policy works very well. The government was tested in 2015, but now the scope of asylum applications is significantly reduced for several reasons. UDI had, among other things, in 2015-2016, a review of own practices for asylum seekers from Afghanistan. The review showed that the UDI had set a lower threshold on which to assess the security situation than what relevant legal sources, including practices from EMD and other countries’ practices and the EU Status Directive, should be addressed. The experience with the rhyme condition was that it led to more people than our international legal obligations being imposed, actually getting refugee status and suspension permits. In June 2016, the size decided to lift the criterion of affordability in the assessment of internal flight. The changes in the law entered into force on 1 October 2016. We see that the tightening has worked, among other things. In removing this criterion, we see that international cooperation has worked, inter alia. by the UDI having adjusted its practice in December 2018 in view of the security situation in Kabul, and by the fact that the areas of Herat and Mazar-e Sharif can be safe and accessible for internal flight. So it is as others have mentioned here today, that people who need to stop other strong human care are being judged according to Section 38 of the Foreign Law. There is thus no need to introduce either return or affordability conditions. I also found the arguments contained in Document 8 to be unsatisfactory. The lack of asylum income now, as argued, does not mean that we should change asylum and immigration policy back to the red-green policy that existed before the asylum agreement, when we now see that the government's tightening up actually works in practice. In the event of such a change as proposed in the proposed document 8, there are probably many ways of expecting a new increase in asylum income. So I want to show you a study that UNICEF has conducted. In the study, families interviewed in Afghanistan informed that they were able to send income and education, for example. children away. When the same single minors were interviewed in Europe, they stressed that it was for fear of life and political reasons. I found it sad that children were used that way. Many people from Afghanistan want both Norway and Europe for very different reasons than protection. We cannot look at this code and open up to others who do not need protection under international law. When it comes to the supervision of a forced return, the legislation provides for both independence and the right to decide for itself which return the supervisory authority wishes to supervise. I think this is going to be very good.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e2493	I would first like to be sorry that I am on case No. 6 appointed Advocate General Olemic Thommes to chair the Committee. Of course, Karin Andersen is still the chairman of the committee. Wide cross-political consensus is a major advantage in several areas of activity, and immigration policy is absolutely such an area. Predictability in the legislation of a country is important for all stakeholders. It is therefore positive that Stortinget’s broad asylum settlements from 2015 and subsequent amendment to the Foreign Affairs Act in 2016 are largely pending in Norway today. Section 28 of the Foreign Affairs Act, on residence permits for non-residents in need of protection or asylum, says among other things.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘The right of recognition as a refugee shall not apply if the foreigner can obtain effective protection in parts of the home Member State other than the territory from which the applicant has fled.’;» [[...]] In such cases, the application for asylum is rejected and the applicant is refused protection in that area. Conditions for referring someone to an internal flight are that the area must be safe and accessible to the applicant. In Norway, the UDI and UNE decide on asylum applications. The centre party believes that we must have confidence that they, as our leading professional authorities in the field, are doing good assessments on each case, and that the information compiled from Landinfo is reliable. UDI and UNE shall always assess, as indicated by an overall committee, whether there is a basis and the need to grant permits under Section 38 of the Act when reference is made to internal migration. It is also important to stress that Section 8-5 of the Regulation, which deals with the assessment of strong human interests under the previously mentioned paragraph of the Law in the case of a child residence permit, also applies. I believe that everyone here has clear expectations that the law and its regulations are being complied with in the best possible way, and that Section 38 on a humanitarian basis is being applied where it is properly assessed. In 2018, 68 persons were granted asylum under this paragraph. Of them, 26 were from Afghanistan. Up to this year, 84 people have been granted humanitarian residence. Of them, 39 are from Afghanistan. At the same time, it is also important and right that we stand firm in the principle of not dealing with individual cases here in the Stortinget and, as the representative of Gharakhani pointed out in a good way, we must call the Institute of Asylum. In the light of previous similar cases and assessments made in connection with today’s proposal for a representative, the Central Party remains in the decision not to reintroduce the so-called reasonableness condition. The proposal on temporary return would not be relevant as proposal No. 1 does not receive a majority, nor is it supported. The draft representative originally proposed the introduction of a procedure for the appointment of the Trandum Supervisory Board, which would allow relevant civil society actors to propose members of the Council. According to the Council of State, there is nothing to prevent that with today's legislation. The Council of State also points out that the hearing bodies will be asked to give their opinion on whether any proposed system should be laid down for the preparation of a new regulation. So it's essentially going to make the center party positive. On this basis and on previous grounds, the Centre Party will not support the proposals contained in the draft representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e2519	I will first mention the suggestions in the setting. I hear co-representatives say they should call the asylum institute. The problem is that the majority in this Chamber have weakened the institution of asylum on several occasions, including: by the indents of Section 32 of the Foreign Affairs Act. They removed the requirement that if you returned to a country, you should be entitled to an asylum procedure in that country – then it was Storskog and Russia we talked about – and they do not. Russia was convicted in the EMC, where Norway is also a member. Yet the majority did. It is not safe to return to a country where they can be sent to a country where they are being persecuted. There is a breach of our asylum obligations. The second is the reasonableness condition. Norway is obliged to do so. I hear other representatives say they have great confidence in UNE. But precisely in this case they do not trust UNE, because when we dealt with the changes in the laws in Stortinget, UNE said quite clearly – in the hearings on the changes in the law – that we had to have a reasonable condition. You have to, because it's not useful to have the square attitude to these issues that the majority have. The intrusions that have been made are purely political. Their main concern has not been our obligations under the Convention or the effective protection of real refugees. Therefore, Norway needs to have legislation in line with our obligations. We don't have that today. Then it's a return to Afghanistan. I think many of us have been down at the City Hall now, in the Nobel Prize distribution. I was there five years ago, too. Then it was Malala who got the peace prize. She said, let it be the last time a girl is forced into a child marriage. The government and the majority cheered and applauded and agreed, but we still return Afghan girls to child marriage and forcibleness. We return them to a situation of internal flight where they are completely without the protection of their family or clan. I hope that, as a supporter of refugee and asylum policy, you know that Afghanistan is a clan community. I have also developed and presented Landinfo's last theme note, which states that there are no authorities in Afghanistan who are able to protect the population – not against rape, not against abuse, not against political persecution, not against anything. It's the authorities that can't protect themselves once. When Landinfo writes such things, it is necessary that we have a debate here on the actual content of this. I don't want the Storting to go in and decide such things, but we have to discuss it when the administration that is set to handle this, obviously doesn't take into account its own facts that it is very dangerous in that country, and that there are no authorities there that can protect refugees – nor the little girls that we send back. The UNHCR also states that in the current security situation, the human rights situation and the humanitarian situation in Kabul, there is no basis for returning there. That is why we have also asked for an expert committee to look at how these decisions are taken. I have been sent for several years to dance between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Justice. Then they point to Landinfo, which points to UDI, and they point to UNE. It's a round dance. No one has been willing to point to the facts underlying the decision taken – it is safe enough to send. But I've realized that when it's so deadly a place that a bomb can go off anytime, and anyone can be killed, then it's safe enough to send everyone back again. And with that reasoning, we have no protection for refugees.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e2534	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e2539	Only two Norwegian individuals have received the Nobel Peace Prize: Christian Lous Lange and Fridtjof Nansen. When Fridtjof Nansen received the prize in 1922 for his work to help people escape, he gave the world a picture of a Norway where values such as humanity, mercy and protection of individuals from the abuses of the authorities were high. I wonder what Nansen would say about his country now, 100 years in time, where politicians struggle to have the most merciless policy for asylum seekers and refugees. For those who are most vulnerable, it may be about life when the state puts the system ahead of the individual and the aim is to interpret the legislation as strictly as possible. In 2019, Afghanistan has been ranked the world's least peaceful country followed by Syria, South Sudan, Yemen and Iraq. The capital of Kabul was the most dangerous province of civil society in 2018. We can still read reports and news of armed conflicts and suicide attacks that affect thousands of innocent civilians, including children. The Amnesty International reports on the return of Afghans who refused the asylum application show that several of these people have been seriously assaulted and killed. Norway is obliged not to return people who are at risk of being persecuted or who are in real danger of being subjected to capital punishment, torture or other inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. Such a situation is now, no one should be returned to Afghanistan. On 1 October 2016, the framework for asylum policy was changed abruptly as a consequence of external factors. The rule of law in the IRR was removed in Norway as part of the asylum agreement. Norway is the only country in Europe that has removed reasonable conditions. It should in itself make the alarm bells ring in this room. The recent developments also show that this part of the asylum agreement has had unfortunate consequences, especially for the most vulnerable and vulnerable asylum seekers. The abolition of the reasonableness condition has led to the return of many who would have been recognised as refugees in the past. It also contributed to a dramatic increase in the number of children who were only allowed to stay on a humanitarian basis until the age of 18. Both the UN, the Norwegian Asylum Seeker Organisation and the UN High Commissioner for Refugees have pointed out that Norway is obliged by international law to have a level playing field. In 2018, the UN presented the new guidelines which conclude that internal migration to Kabul is not possible due to the current security, human rights and humanitarian situation. Based on the revised UN Guidelines, the Ministry of Justice sent an instruction to the UDI in 2018 that tightens up but does not eliminate the use of internal migration to Kabul. Together with Denmark and the Netherlands, Norway is the only country in Europe to carry out forced repatriation of Afghan children’s families – a practice that is contrary to UN recommendations. This happens because the government prioritizes a fight against a diverse and inclusive Norway over the fight for the rights of the very weakest among us. It affects individuals every day. One of those affected by government policy is Farida, who grew up on Dokka in Norway, who had recently had to celebrate his 14th birthday in Kabul. She should have celebrated it with friends and family at home in the village of Dokka. Another example is the Abbasi family, where mother and three siblings were tried to send to Afghanistan, mother became seriously ill, and Afghanistan refused to accept them. Today they live in uncertainty without a permanent residence permit in Norway. The law should be amended. Norway should not be a country for asylum seekers. The conditions of fairness must be reintroduced. In the meantime, it is appropriate to put an immediate stop to all forced return of asylum seekers to Afghanistan. I also support the other proposals promoted by SV here today, which follow up on the SV representative proposal and the Greens/Greens/EFA, which are the basis of the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e2560	According to the Global Peace Index, Afghanistan is the world's most dangerous country. Nevertheless, Norway is at the top of Europe in terms of forced return to the country. According to both the UN, Amnesty and several human rights experts, Afghanistan is too dangerous to return to. In 2017, Amnesty asked Europe to stop returning to the country. It will not be listened to by the Norwegian authorities, unfortunately. While Norway sends families back to Kabul, saying that internal flight will be safe, the number of people killed and injured shows that Kabul is a dangerous province — in fact the most dangerous — for civilians. According to Landinfo, Kabul was referred to as the capital of suicide in June, because of all the attacks against civilians. Nine out of ten victims in Kabul are civilians. In addition, changing Norwegian governments have invaded Norway after every 19 years of devastating war in Afghanistan, which is the main cause of the violence and crisis in that country. It gives us a special responsibility not to force innocent Afghans into a dangerous situation, which we ourselves have been in on sheep through many years of warfare. In our view, a new assessment of Norway’s views and practices on internal migration is needed. In the 2008 preparatory work of the Foreign Affairs Act, it was a pre-requisite that the assessment of fairness is an obligation under international law. But then this requirement and condition have been removed under the sitting Solberg government. Red lacks a clear response from the government to why there is such a difference between the UN assessment and Norway’s assessment of the safety situation in Afghanistan and why the government is opposed to all professional advice on internal migration and return to the country. We are the only country in Europe that has no reasonable conditions for internal flight. In our view, this is a clear indication that Norway is on the wrong side of the law. We must not end up doing the same wrong thing as in the current Nav scandal, where Norwegian administrative practices are contrary to international law. In our view, forcing returnees to refuse asylum seekers to flee internally without the ability of the Afghan State to give them real protection is irresponsible. The decision of the Grand Duchy to introduce so-called vulnerability criteria is not enough to stop violations of the Refugee Convention. That is why, in our view, the return to Afghanistan must be stopped. As a minimum, we require that if the return takes place, the reasonableness condition should be assessed. In the Amnesty report ‘Forced back to danger’ of 2017, there are several examples of refugees who have been returned from Norway becoming victims of serious suffering, including: Kill, in Afghanistan. Therefore, Red also supports the proposal for an independent system of enforcement. Since 2010, Norway has been obliged under the EU Return Directive to have effective and independent supervision of forced returns. But the Trandum Supervisory Board is both appointed and financed by the Ministry of Justice and Defence. This means that both the PU and the council that are meant to supervise the unit are under the same department. According to NOAS, this is a clear sign that we do not have a truly independent supervisory board in Norway. We want guarantees that Norway is not responsible for violations of human rights and will therefore have independent supervision. We will also ask the Government Parties, as well as the Centre Party and the Labour Party, to listen to the UN recommendations and to respect the principles of the Refugee Convention, and to reintroduce the reasonableness condition as a minimum. Before Norway sends people back to the world’s most dangerous country, we need to assess whether internal migration will be reasonable or not. Therefore, the reasonableness condition must be reintroduced and Norway must stop returning to war and persecution.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e2579	Temporary return to Afghanistan has also been proposed on previous occasions, in 2017. The proposal did not get a majority in this Chamber at the time either. The security situation in Afghanistan is continuously assessed by both UDI and UNE and from many sources compiled by Landinfo. This proposal constitutes a mistrust of the assessments of UDI and UNE. Single case treatment and whether returns are safe should not be subject to political intervention. The European Court of Human Rights, the EMD, has established a high threshold that the security situation in a country or region may be so serious that any return to it would be contrary to international obligations. Only in the most extreme cases of violence will return be contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights, the EMC. I trust the foreign administration's assessments of the security situation in Afghanistan. The reasonableness condition for internal migration has also been proposed several times in the past in the Foreign Affairs Act. Nor on previous occasions have these proposals received a majority. There is nothing in international law, including the Convention on Refugees, that obliges us to establish a reasonable condition. Nationally, we have the freedom to decide how to design the internal refugee regime, as long as practice is at the heart of the refugee convention and we respect the protection against the return to persecution and abuse, i.e. non-refoulement. I would also like to remind you that all asylum seekers who are referred to domestic refugees are asked to consider whether they can be allowed to stay in Norway for humanitarian reasons. In that case, considerations that were previously emphasised during reasonableness assessments in the internal flow determination will be considered. The proposers also want to set up an expert committee to ensure more transparency and reprobability of UDI and UNE safety assessments. The proposal signals, as mentioned above, a lack of trust in the competence and ability of the authorities to assess. It has decided that UDI and UNE should decide on asylum applications and assess whether return is safe. It is those who are management experts to assess country information, and it is their decision that can also be reviewed by the Court of Justice. I strongly warn against new schemes that are rooted in an established and well-functioning system, especially when the proposal is primarily based on the desire for a more liberal asylum policy. It is also proposed to establish an independent Board of Supervisors for Forced Returns through the appointment, secretariat function and a separate budget. All forced returns shall be carried out in a safe and secure manner. For this reason, the Ministry of Justice and Defence has sent a proposal to the Board of Regulators for Forced Returns at the hearing. In the hearing, we also ask whether a system should be laid down in which relevant civil society actors propose suitable candidates to the Board of Supervisors. In order to ensure the independence of the Board of Supervisors, the regulatory proposal states that the Council itself should plan and implement its activities, and we commit to continuing the funding of the Board of Supervisors. 440, i.e. through the Police Directorate, and that the police should be responsible for facilitating the presence of the Supervisory Board during forced detention. It will ensure both a flexible budget and necessary practical support without challenging neither economic nor organisational independence. With regard to proposals for the examination of a specific case, I have already made an oral statement on the matter in Stortinget twice, and I have also made a thorough written statement. And few, if perhaps some, shipments in a single case have been the subject of more thorough deletion of the authorities, the media and interest groups. Transport has followed the legislation, and the police have followed all the child and medical recommendations they have received. The County of Oslo and Viken have established regulatory proceedings against the doctor who approved the shipment. The medical profession is then reviewed by a relevant professional body. I therefore await the conclusion of the County Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e2603	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e2608	Since the matter is also about forced return and how this is done in practice, I have recorded that the Minister for Immigration fears a new asylum crisis. At the same time, we see that the trust elected to PU, the Foreign Affairs Department of the police, is concerned about the enormous downsizing we are now seeing. As you know, the PU has important competences to ensure a return to the countries with which we have a return agreement and to preserve the institution of asylum. But it is also about their unique competence to ensure a humane and effective return policy. Especially when there are children inside the picture, it must be as humane and gentle as possible. Then my question to the Council of State is, how will the downpour affect it?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e2613	It is always demanding when you have recruited a staff to deal with a specific issue, which we had both when we took over after the previous government – then there were many who had not been returned in a good time – and after the asylum crisis in 2015. When it becomes less returnable, there is also less reason to spend a lot of money on returning. Therefore, the target figure is also reduced – simply because fewer people are to be returned. That's why we're also reducing some of the staff in the Foreign Affairs Unit. This is an estimate from Stortinget, i.e. that you have the opportunity to finance if it becomes necessary because there are more. Both in the UDI and in the PU you have to adjust the capacity according to your needs. If not, we will run with a large overcapacity that will cost Norwegian taxpayers quite expensive.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e2618	The recent figures show that the government does not achieve the targets for forced return. That is the reality. Let me share some of the clear feedback trustees in PU have given, and that says something about reality. I choose to quote local team leader Åsbjørg Gussgaard in an interview with TV 2: "A few weeks ago we got 88 in a week, and already then we saw that it was shaking. We are not able to handle that amount per now." She goes on to say, ‘The situation for PU employees is very rough. As it is today, we are already struggling in certain areas to operate properly.» How will the Council of State respond to this?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e2633	Some reason why the goal is not achieved now is that there are many fewer asylum seekers than had been imagined when the state budget was put in place and thus also the target for how many were to be returned. It is difficult and demanding to try to calculate — what to say — almost a year in advance how many asylum seekers will arrive. Now we have a historically low number of asylum seekers, which means that there will also be fewer returns. But these are not people who report their arrival in advance, and therefore fluctuations from week to week will create challenges in the weeks it is a max level. That's exactly why we're now investing and moving the PU, so it'll be co-located with the UDI in advice. You will then get a good preparedness to deal with large inflows, so that the situations we had in 2015 will not come back if suddenly more people come to Norway today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e2640	By international law, Norway has a duty to have a fair trial, and the UN-Prop hearing opinion. 90 L for 2015-2016 is ready: ‘The state practice we have outlined here argues that Norway is obliged by international law to have a reasonable condition in the event of an internal refugee in cases where a person falls within the scope of point (a) of the first paragraph of Section 28 of the Foreign Affairs Act. In that case, the applicant will be entitled to refugee status if internal flight is unreasonable. This in turn means that it would not be sufficient to grant authorisation to the applicant under Section 38 of the Foreign Affairs Act.» I hear the Council of State say that there are some people who have mistrusted UNE's decisions, but it is the Council of State and the majority who have mistrusted UNE's international law expertise. Can the Council explain why UNE is wrong in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e2650	It is such that the UN has been given the task of this Chamber to carry out an independent assessment of each case. It is also the case that they are set to make policies on how to deal with these individual issues. UNE is independent. There are shared opinions about the kiss, as is usually the case, but I believe that we have a good system today, where we do not have a reasonable assessment, and I believe that we do not have a requirement under international law either. But what we have is that we always evaluate matters after the provision of humanitarian residence. In fact, there has been a liberalisation of the provision on humanitarian stay, for example. for long-term asylum seekers, so that the threshold for their humanitarian stay was lower. There is a balance in asylum policy now that I think is quite good.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e2659	This is not about opinions, it is about international obligations under the right of asylum. There, therefore, UNE – which I also expect the Council of State to assume has international legal expertise, as they are to manage this law and these obligations – says that we have this obligation, and that an assessment under § 38, the humanitarian provision, does not meet our obligations. So this is not the opinion of the Progress Party or the SV, but of Norway's obligations. Why does the UN Council of State not recognise the expertise in refugee law?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e2666	As I said in my post, there is nothing in the refugee convention that obliges us to have a reasonable set of conditions. That's exactly where we disagree. Now I don't remember what the UN described in its hearing opinion, but it's not unusual to have a different perception of what's the kiss in this. We have to deal with the legal bases we have available, and there is nothing in the legal bases that makes this hall bound up with international obligations to have a legal provision that says that you have to have a reasonable condition before returning or referring to an internal fugitive.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e2671	The understanding of our obligations under the refugee convention is clear to the UNHCR. They think we have this obligation. It also believes UNE, who is and must be experts in this law because they have to manage it. What the Council of State and the majority here are doing is a clear view of our commitments because we are politically committed to tightening up. It therefore violates Norway's obligations, and it does not work well for Norway. In addition, it is not as the Council of State claims that it is the same whether you receive asylum under Section 28 or Section 38, nor does it apply to children. Vulnerability criteria can only give rise to residence on a humanitarian basis and give fewer rights than refugee status. Therefore, it is important that the reasonableness condition of the IRR must be reintroduced into Section 28 of the Foreign Affairs Act. Doesn't the Council of State see this important difference?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e2680	I see that there are differences in how to stay on a humanitarian basis and in how to stay because of the fact that you are in a refugee situation, and that is the way it should be. If you are in a refugee situation, there is a completely different basis for why you need to be in a different country than when you have been given a humanitarian residence. Then there are completely different reasons than that you need protection, which is why you get to stay. Now, those rights have begun to become less important because much of this applies, for example. access to accrued-to-date pensions and pension entitlements, and this government has also done something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e2688	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e2695	Thank you very much to my colleague Karin Andersen, who is heroically fighting for these matters year after year. She has explained the details of the matter. I shall comment more on this debate. So we want to introduce reasonable conditions and temporary return to Afghanistan because, first of all, we believe that the government is not doing enough to protect refugees from Afghanistan. We believe that they allow political considerations – or populist considerations – to take precedence over professional input and also advice from the UN. We also take it up because we believe that we should insist on this non-refoulement principle that we should not force people to return to any danger. If there is the least risk of danger, people should not be forced to return. That's the main reason why we're dealing with this. We meet with quite instrumental and mechanical responses, rules are pushed in front of people, and it is a implicit rhetoric that any change will lead to uncontrolled inflows. We've heard it from the Minister of Justice lately. SV is going to lose this voting – once again – but at the same time we know that there are several parties that support us. We had similar in the debate last week where we discussed labour law for unresectable asylum seekers, where the Left and Christian People's Party voted against their own convictions. They went against what they had said in public – they voted something quite different here in the hall. It is that in the programme of the Left – they are unfortunately not here and can answer this – it is very clear that they believe that ‘It is obvious that we do not return to countries that the United Nations says are not safe’. It says the Left in its program. Still, they're going to vote for this. Bransdal from the Christian People's Party, which is here in the Chamber, has repeatedly warned against forced repatriation to Afghanistan, in the summer of several media. She's going to vote for forced repatriation to Afghanistan today. Both the Left and the Christian People's Party have also raised the need to renegotiate the asylum agreement, but we have not heard anything since the summer. It must hurt these parties very much that the government is using the whip to force them to vote against their own convictions. Once again, this happens for these two games. When are they going to end it? When will they actually dry to vote for what they mean? Why can't Christian People's Party and Left do it the same way as SV did when we were in government? It was that when things were so value-oriented and following the government's whip pained us so much, then we actually took this one's. So my call is – and I want the Minister of Justice to take this to the government offices – that in these matters the government should allow some parties and representatives to take it. I would also encourage the Christian People's Party to assess it in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e2713	Early on the morning of June 15, the Trondheims family Abbasi, a mother and her three children, were taken by the police and drove to Røros to be fled against Afghanistan. Several organisations, including Amnesty, reacted to the implementation of the draft. The police aliens' unit has confirmed that the mother of the family went unconscious shortly after the apprehension, and that she was still unconscious upon arrival in Istanbul. The mother was subsequently sent home to Norway, while the police planned to continue the expulsion of the three children. Eventually, the Afghan authorities refused to accept the three siblings without their mother, and the whole family was returned to Norway. The police told the media that it was an outrageous attack. Well, a draft where the mother goes unconscious, remains unconscious all the way from Norway to Istanbul and then has to be sent home again, is anything but undramatic. It has also been later revealed in the press that the doctor who decided that the mother was ‘fit for flight’ has written very anti-immigration posts on immigration-critical websites. This raises the question of how the authorities ensure quality that broadcasts are carried out by professional people and in the right way. I met the kids when they came to Norway, and what they had experienced, kids should not experience. Being coerced with her unconscious mother to witness her being sent home to Norway, while they themselves are to be sent on to a country they have never been in, characterised as one of the most dangerous countries in the world, is terrible. In addition, they were refused to try to contact their mother. Nevertheless, the Minister of Justice and Immigration does not take any form of self-criticism for what has happened. In a letter to the Committee dated 14 November this year, the Minister for Justice and Immigration wrote: ‘Even in the light of the after watch, it is difficult to see that there is a basis for criticising some of the decisions taken.’ There are good reasons to examine the discard of the Abbasi family. I think the authorities have a lot to learn from this case, and I would also like to remind you that a majority of the Presidency in Trondheim Municipality has asked for such an investigation. Had the same parties that sent this enquiry from Trondheim, supported our proposal today, we would have had a majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e2729	It has been a long time since Norway has had a rough refugee policy, but something happened when the refugee crisis came, when the government caused a chaos. NOU 2019:13, When the crisis occurs, i.e. this year, it shows that there was no basis for changing the law in Norway during that crisis, but there was a strong basis for criticising the government for the handling. The government sat still, caused the chaos to arise and reaped such a political gain that I think almost no government has reaped from doing such a bad job, namely that they were able to scare up the entire political majority, with the exception of the Green and SV Environmental Party, to the restrictions that we are discussing today, and that are a breach of our international obligations. What's also special about these issues is that they're very politicized. They're highly policed, across the board. The second is that in these matters it can be about life. In most other cases, we can make a decision, we can argue about the solution, and we can do it again. But if you make mistakes in these things, it can be about life. Or what if some of these little girls we're sending back to Afghanistan are being coerced and systematically raped for the rest of our lives, which we talk very loudly about that we're against otherwise? That's why it's so important that we have to be on the right side of the safety margin that has to be in these cases, and we're not now. We're not because we've changed Section 32, we're not because we've removed the reasonableness condition, nor are we because whatever it says in these Landinfo reports about how dangerous it has become, it's not dangerous anyway. See if it's much more dangerous now than it was before, it was dangerous before, but not now. It has nothing to do with reality, it has to do with politics. The SV will insist that we comply with our international obligations, and it is necessary for a country to do so when European leaders also run and stumble over each other in order to break our humanitarian and international obligations. Another thing is that it's right, and the world needs a voice that says something other than what Norway is saying today, that we should be as strict as possible and not fulfill our obligations, because it's not that dangerous, because we mean anything else.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e2740	It's not everyone who's in that we break the principle of international law in this room, so it'll be a little wrong to say it. The reason why I take the floor is the article by the representative Lars Haltbrecken about the Afghan mother who was given the residence permits in 2012 as a single woman without a human network. The recall came when the man came to Norway in 2012. Saka has been treated in Oslo District Court and in Borgarting Lawyers' Court. UNE's decision is firm, and the judgment is enforceable. Thus, all possibilities in the Norwegian judicial system are exhausted. The case is now before the Court of Human Rights, EMD. They may ask that we suspend a shipment, but they have not done so. The four people who behaved unlawfully in Norway had an exit time of 16 July 2018, so they were obliged to leave the country on their own before that date. When expedients have not complied with the exit obligation, it is the job of the police to perform the forced return. One doctor and two nurses were present at the apprehension, and on their own journey from the country the doctor was also with the whole front. Medical personnel were like this until Kabul. Medical assessments were carried out on their whole way of life, and when it was necessary to stop the trip, it is a good example that this actually works. So I disagree that we have made a mistake in this matter. I believe that what has been done in this matter cannot really be done better. There is legal certainty and there is security for both health and life when we follow out transportations in as good a way as we have done in this matter. There's evidence that we've done a great job, actually.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e2753	I'm not sure if I believe what I'm hearing. When the representative Trellevik stands on the floor and says that the Norwegian authorities have done a ‘super job’ – a super job – in the draft of the Abbasi family, I would like to ask the representative: what was so great? The mother went unconscious just after the apprehension. She was driven to Røros in unconscious condition with her three children. She was fled from Røros to Gardermoen in unconscious condition with her three children. She was fled from Gardermoen to Istanbul in unconscious condition with her three children. Gradually, it was not possible to continue transporting the mother, and she was sent home to Norway. But the police still wanted to send out three children, where two of them have never been Afghanistan and one is a minor. To Afghanistan — one of the world’s most dangerous countries — these three children were to be sent while Mother was lying unconscious on the plane from Istanbul back to Oslo. Then the representative, Trellevik, says that the authorities have done a great job in this matter. Regardless of what one might think of the decision to grant a residence permit for this family, it has to be considered how this expulsion was carried out. It deals with one of the proposals that SV has made today — to get a look at this projection, so that we can learn about future issues. This is so far from a super job that you can get into a decent country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e2758	There are some people in this room who are trying to make people who disagree, like you want to be merciless. The truth is that there is a majority in this Chamber who want to be realistic and who have seen that the asylum system cannot solve world refugee problems. There would be no limit to people who would have been better off in Norway, but the asylum system should be reserved for those who have a very special need for protection, where there are no other solutions. If we open up, as the representatives of the SV continue to do, and give residence to those who do not have a basis for it today, the institution of asylum will be undermined, and it is not long before we are able to help neither their own nor those of others. What the majority in this Chamber want, and what the Progress Party wants, is to be able to help more people in a better way. In the case of Afghanistan, Norwegian authorities have made efforts far beyond what can really be expected. When Norway has participated with armed forces in Afghanistan, it is to help the local and civil population. It is not a desire to be merciless, but you can see that you cannot solve this situation with the asylum institution. At least then it is important that if you can get protection in a safe part of your own country, you do not have to take the place of someone who cannot get it. It may be easy to make it sound merciful and nice, but it's pure populism. It's not a merciful and solid approach angle at all. It'll just help destroy a system that can work for someone. If we're going to start discussing individual items about return in this room, it's going to be wrong. The Norwegian authorities showed that they are well prepared in the case of forced return to Afghanistan. The Norwegian authorities showed that all was taken into account, and that they were prepared for the person to faint, because it had happened before. This also involved health professionals. You rented your own plane, and you did everything you could to get returned in the most gentle way possible. The alternative is to say that fainting on an aircraft will give you a stay in Norway. It'll never get up to date. If you give in to that kind of arrangement, a lot more will try to resist a return. In fact, I still have confidence that the Norwegian authorities are doing what they can to enforce the legislation in a gentle way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e2769	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e2774	It is not true when the representative of the Progress Party believes that there are some people who believe that everyone who comes to Norway is going to get asylum. What this is all about is that we have to meet our international obligations. We're not doing that today. We are so strict that more people who need protection do not get it in Norway. It is not right at all that anyone in this Chamber believes that the institution of asylum itself should solve all the world's refugee problems. But this is a fragile network of civilization that the world has tried to agree on, and Norway is cutting it apart. The issue is also that when we have to deal with these difficult issues, where people are terrified of being sent back, regardless of what Norway thinks, it should be done in a humanitarian way. There is no one who has looked at this matter, with the return of the Abbasi family, who shares the government's view that this has been done in a good way, or that it was a super job. On the contrary, this is one of the worst things we've ever seen.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e2781	The representative Lars Haltbrecken has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e2786	I understand that it is difficult to be confronted with concrete examples of the consequences of one's own immigration policy. But if you think it's too uncomfortable to be confronted with single families and the consequences of your own immigration policy, you have to take the consequences and actually be involved in our proposals and change immigration policy. Then, finally, I will challenge the Left and Christian People's Party. We have now heard two speeches at the end of the debate by two of the government parties, the Right and the Advance Party. Are the other two governmental parties, the Left and the Christian People's Party, in agreement with the representatives of Engen-Helgheim and Trellevik?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e2794	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e2806	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e2818	A total of 21 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-8, by Kari Henriksen, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 9, from Kari Henriksen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party the proposals No 10 and 11, from Kari Henriksen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 12 and 13, from Kari Henriksen on behalf of the Workers' Party the proposals No 14-19, from Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 20 and 21, from Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen on behalf of the Central Party There is a vote on proposal No. 20, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to propose amendments to the Property Tax Act which exempt all owners of buildings which are either protected under the Cultural Memory Act or regulated under the Planning and Building Act from municipal property tax.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e2854	There is a vote on proposal No. Twenty-one, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate and propose other tax relief models that can contribute to the smooth maintenance of buildings that are either protected by the Cultural Memory Act or regulated by the Planning and Building Act.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e2871	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 14–17, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government to lay down a plan for all states/regions to have their own building protection centre in charge of local museums and/or voluntary cultural memory organisations.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to launch a State Conservation Programme for medieval stone churches aimed at enabling all Norwegian medieval churches to be established by 2030, the 1000th anniversary of the Battle of Stiklestad.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The Government requests the launch of a State Conservation Programme for the Peaced Tractors before 1650 which has not been captured by the Stall Church Programme.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government requests the launch of a State Conservation Programme for Protected Churches built in 1650-1850.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e2905	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 18 and 19, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The Government of the notified cultural memory message is asked to come back with a proposal for a stepping-up plan for the Norwegian cultural memory fund, in order to provide the fund with 300 million in the long term. cents for annual distribution.’» Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government is asking the Norwegian Cultural Memory Fund to set up its own climate action programme in sheltered houses from before 1950 and to ask the Government to return to Stortinget in the revised budget for 2020 with a proposal for funding for the project.’; The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e2930	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 12 and 13, from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asked to assess the one-off benefit, in terms of the risk of women being ‘locked’ within a poverty trap and the relationship with the working line.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to consider a breakdown of the lump-sum payment.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e2954	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 10 and 11, from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asked to amend the government’s regulation on state grants and guarantee income for artists, so that grants, long-term scholarships and guarantee income are regulated as a minimum by an index equal to the national salary structure.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to convert the incentive scheme for international film and television productions into a system governed by rules and to submit it to the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e2978	There is a vote on proposal No. 9, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to draw up a set of criteria to be able to seek funds from cape. 315, heading 86, so that this becomes an open and searchable scheme in the future.» The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e2995	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-8, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to present a case on how economic policy can contribute to strengthening economic equality between women and men.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to restore previous posts for the volunteer agencies in the Ministry of Culture budget.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to make the VAT compensation scheme for the construction of sports facilities regulated.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate and promote an application-based pot for operation and long-term support to the established stage art companies under the Norwegian Cultural Council, outside the Cultural Fund.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to implement the EU Copyright Directive as soon as possible ( [[EU]] Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a roll-out report on film dissemination.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with proposals for any changes to the local radio advertising rules on FM.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to assess the content of the request decision No. 694 again, in the context of ongoing legal work, in order to ensure a responsible, comprehensive and consistent policy on gambling.’ [[2017-2018]] The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e7417	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e9001	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e9011	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e9111	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e9121	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e9597	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e9608	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e9620	A total of five proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1–5, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘Law 15 May 2008 No 35 on the admission of non-residents to the Kingdom and their residence here is amended as follows: [[Law on Foreign Affairs]] I Paragraph 28 fifth paragraph is replaced by the following: The right of recognition as a refugee referred to in the first subparagraph shall not apply if the foreigner can obtain effective protection in parts of the home Member State other than the territory from which the applicant has fled and it is not unreasonable to refer the applicant to seek protection in those parts of the home Member State. II The law shall enter into force immediately.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to put an immediate stop to all forced return of asylum seekers to Afghanistan until the Grand Duchy has dealt with and taken decisions on the amendment to the Foreign Affairs Act. [[introduction of reasonableness conditions for internal flight]] Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to set up an expert committee to ensure more transparency and reprobability in decisions on changes to the safety assessments of the foreign exchange management of the return country.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government requests the Board of Supervisors of Trandum to provide its own budget and the necessary secretarial function, irrespective of the Foreign Affairs Department of the Police.’;» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government requests the setting up of an independent external audit team to assess the forced return in question, including the medical and pediatric evaluations carried out prior to and during the execution of the forced return.’; The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e9680	The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e9692	The President understands that there are people who have voted incorrectly, and someone who has not been voted. Then we take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-10.ana.ud101e9719	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? The meeting has been cancelled.
