ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-02.ana.ud199e189	In accordance with the Constitution, the King gives this message to the Norwegian State and Government in the run-up to the last message. It's going well in the Norwegian economy. The growth of the mainland economy was last year higher than the long-term trend, for the first time since 2014. Since 2016, employment growth and unemployment have decreased. The unemployment rate is lower than the average over the last 20 years. Eight out of ten new jobs have arrived in the last year in the private sector. In August, the registered unemployment rate was 2.2 pst. Increased capacity utilisation and employment are also expected to increase in the future. In 2019, Norway Bank raised its interest rate three times, and the interest rate is now 1.50 pst. In September, the Norwegian krona was about 15 pst. weaker than before the oil price started to fall in 2014. Together with moderate wage and salary issues, reduced taxes and increased investment, Norwegian companies have been given better competitiveness. In the Revised National Budget, the government raised to $238 billion. from the revenue from oil and from the funds. That equals 2.9 pst. by State pension funds abroad at the beginning of 2019. In 2018, the value creation in the petroleum sector amounted to 17 pst. of Norway’s GDP. The country’s net cash flow from the petroleum industry was 251 billion. kr. State pension funds had a combined market value at the end of the first half of the year of SEK 9 414 billion. SEK, an increase of 924 billion. New Year's kr. The landscape of foreign policy is marked by unrest and unattainable conditions. The UN Security Council remains the most important body in the world when it comes to international peace and security. Norway has intensified its efforts to be elected to the Security Council for 2021–2022. Norway has continued its efforts for peace and reconciliation, including: in Venezuela. Norway leases the UN Economic and Social Council in 2019–2020. In European policy, the government emphasises that the EEA Agreement should continue to be a well-functioning framework for Norway's participation in the single European market. The government has concluded and will continue to work to secure agreements with the United Kingdom when they leave the EU – whether with or without a call-out agreement. The Prime Minister hires the United Nations force force force unit. The government is working to reach the sustainability targets nationally and internationally. The government is reforming the assistance management to make it effective and to maximise its impact. The government is intensifying development policy efforts for particularly vulnerable and postponing groups. The government has also announced the doubling of Norwegian support for the Green Climate Fund from 2020. The government has presented an action plan for work on women, peace and security. The humanitarian budget has increased by over 60 pst. from 2013 to 2019. The government has continued its efforts to strengthen its defence in line with its long-term plan. In NATO, Norway has embarked on reforms that make the alliance better equipped to ensure collective defence of its members. Norway was host to the NATO exercise Trident Juncture 2018. The exercise was a concrete expression of NATO's will and ability to defend allies. Norway participates in international military operations, including: in Mali, Afghanistan and Iraq. This year's wage settlement was an interim settlement. Wage growth was slightly higher than in the previous years. There are still too many outside the labour market. The government has therefore taken the initiative to get more people to work. The government and the social partners are some about a new commitment to a more inclusive working life. At the suggestion of the government, a new service pension for the public was added in our signature. The municipal sector is going well, and several municipalities have a better economic space for action. This progresses, for example: because there are fewer municipalities in ROBEK than ever before. The industry in the districts is going well, and values are being created where people live. Growth creates living communities. The government will continue to simplify legislation and give municipalities greater space for action and greater responsibility for sustainable social development and land use. Norwegian businesses depend on being able to sell their goods and services in other countries, and the government will continue its efforts to ensure market access in existing and new markets. Norway is the second largest exporter of seafood in the world. In 2018, Norway exported seafood for 99 billion. kr. In June, the government presented its up-to-date maritime strategy. Norway has also taken a leading role in global maritime issues, including: through the High Level Panel for a Resilient Marine Economy. The government is continuing a stable, long-term petroleum policy. In the 2018 round of predefined areas 83 extraction lines were allocated to 33 oil companies. The government has sent a hearing proposal to open the seawind area. Renewal of the basic ball and the ongoing subjects in the advanced school are in progress. The teacher standards were introduced in the autumn of 2018 and will be stepped up in the autumn of 2019. The government is continuing its efforts to develop the skills of kindergarten and school teachers. The government has started the competence reform Learn All Life. The aim is that no one should go out to date in the workplace and that more people should be able to work any longer. In October 2018, the government presented the long-term plan for research and higher education 2019–2028, with concrete plans for stepping up technology, higher education quality and R & D for business transition and innovation. The government launched its integration strategy in the autumn of 2018 for more immigrants to participate in working and social life. In August, a proposal to repeal the Introduction Act was sent to the audience and to introduce a new law on integration. The legislative proposal shall contribute to the participation of more immigrants in the labour market. In November 2018, the government presented the first holistic cultural message of 15 years. A Media Support Council will be set up as a follow-up to the Media Policy Storing Communication, and the funding of the NRK will be redeployed. The government has been able to establish a low threshold for dealing with sexual harassment. The near-police reform is the biggest change in the police in recent times and facilitates new methods and technologies. We've already got police patrols who do more police work in the city, and robust operational centres that are important for preparedness. Two new police helicopters have been delivered this year. A third helicopter will be delivered during the fall. The new helicopters are giving the police a strong force for action. The new helicopters shall be intended to be operational by the end of 2020. In the last year, there have been about 200 new police stations. The government has started the quality reform Life all its life. Good local solutions should be disseminated and used in municipalities. The government has increased the total number of care places to 2,400 in 2019. Since 2013, the government has been providing 15 500 full-day care places, with a total staffing of approximately 25.5 billion. kr. The government has started its work on Equal Opportunities Reform. The aim is to make everyday life easier and better for children in need of complex services, and for their families. In June, the government presented the Escalation Plan for the Mental Health of Children and Young People. Over the years, the government has invested in health and school health services, including the midwifery capacity of municipalities, and the number of annual work in the service has increased considerably. About 2 million patients received health care in somatic hospitals in 2018, an increase of 1.0 pst. from the previous year. The average waiting time in the specialist clinic was 59 days in 2018, an increase of two days from the previous year. Since 2013, waiting times in the specialist suite have decreased by 15 days. The government has launched a family project to improve the daily life of families with children and ensure good growth conditions. Safe and good families contribute to strengthening children's possibilities in life. In 2019, for the first time, child-care was increased over 20 years. In addition, the single payment was significantly increased. Increases are mostly for families with low incomes. Priority will be given to the fight against child poverty. The incentive for children from difficult-to-use families, including may participate in holiday and leisure activities, increased by more than 200 million. kr since 2014. Efforts against violence and child abuse have been strengthened. The focus on the measures in the escalation plan against violence and abuse is now about 1 billion. kr per year. The government has put forward proposals for a common law for all the community of threats and life views. In addition, the government has submitted a communication on the Information Society Fund. In May the government concluded an agricultural agreement with the agricultural organizations. The agreement builds up under active agriculture with a varied use structure across the country and provides a good framework for positive income development. The government has also signed a climate agreement with agriculture, which has set a target of reducing emissions by 5 million. tonnes of CO 2 equivalent for the period 2021 to 2030. Law prohibiting the retention of fur animals entered into force on 1 July 2019. In 2019, the first route that New Vegar AS has built opens, the four-field motorway between Tvedestrand and Arendal. The maintenance run on the highway will be reduced for five consecutive years. The work on the rail reform is continuing so that passengers can get a better train offer, while getting more rail for tax money. In June 2019, the size agreed to conclude an agreement with the EU on the joint fulfilment of the 2030 emission target. The agreement will provide a far-reaching and more offensive framework for Norwegian climate policy. The government has started Climate Change 2030 to provide an updated knowledge base on how Norway can reduce non-quota emissions. In the spring of 2019, the government presented its own action plan for green shipping. The Government has established the Zero Emissions Fund for Industrial Transport. It's seen by 1 billion. kr to the fund for 2019 and 2020. The current external balance surplus was 285 billion. SEK in 2018, up to SEK 99 billion. kr from 2017. The average salary increase from 2017 to 2018 was 2.8 pst. Wages and salaries are higher than consumption prices, and real wages and salaries after taxes are higher by 0.3 pst. last year. Consumer prices were 2.7 pst. higher in the period January to June of the year than in the same period last year. The population in Norway continued to grow in 2018, but at a lower rate than in the years before. Net immigration fell last year, but was still slightly higher than in the years preceding the EEA extension in 2004. In 2018, the population increased by about 37,000 people, and almost half of the population came from net immigration. In 2018, there were about 55,000 children born. That was 1,500 fewer than in 2017. In the last year there has been moderate growth in housing prices, after strong price growth and a subsequent fall in prices in the years ahead. Household liabilities have increased faster than incomes. On average, Norwegian households have a debt that is more than twice their disposable income. The ongoing increase in household debt is a sign that financial imbalances have developed in the Norwegian economy. The government has implemented several measures for a more resilient development of household liabilities, both for consumption and housing. New central bank law was adopted by the Stortinget in June and shall enter into force on 1 January 2020. The legislative decision requires Norway’s Bank to continue to be the operational manager of the State pension fund abroad and the Bank to have a new and more modern governance structure with a Monetary Policy and Financial Stability Committee. The supervisory role of the representative body will be continued as at present. The law also provides for a clear purpose for the Bank of Norway, and it is made clear that the central bank is independent when it concerns the use of instruments. Its treatment shows a broad consensus on the role and tasks of the central bank, and facilitates a good and stable framework for Norway’s Bank in the future. The Government has submitted notifications of Norwegian interests in multilateral cooperation. Norway shall contribute to reforming and strengthening the organisations and cooperation frameworks that are crucial for us, such as the United Nations, the WTO and NATO, and we shall contribute to strengthening relations and cooperation with like-minded European countries and with the EU. Binding multilateral cooperation is in Norway's fundamental interest, including in the area of security policy. Norway is working for the best possible framework for arms control, disarmament and non-proliferation. We work closely with the EU to promote safe societies, fundamental rights and multilateral cooperation in response to common challenges such as climate change and migration. The government has contributed to finding global and regional solutions to today’s migration challenges through participation in relevant UN and EU processes, and through cooperation with countries of origin. Since World War II, the United States has been our most important allies, with close and strong cooperation bilaterally and through NATO. This cooperation has a long-term perspective and is decisive for Norwegian security. The government wants to further develop and strengthen cooperation with the United States. The government has worked for clearer strategic priorities in Nordic cooperation. These priorities are now set by the Nordic Prime Ministers: a green, competitive and socially resilient Nordic region. Relations with Russia will also be an important factor in Norwegian foreign policy in the future. While we have a dialogue and practical cooperation in the area of common interest, we are together with allies in the reaction to Russia's violation of international law. The government is working to ensure that Norwegian businesses have good, competitive and sustainable framework conditions internationally. There is a trade agreement between EFTA and Mercosur and progress has been made in the free trade negotiations with China. The Arctic is still characterised by stability and cooperation based on international law. All Arctic countries end up in Arctic Councils as the central cooperation forum for the region. Central Norwegian objectives in the Arctic will also be pursued in the future fight against climate change, combined with sustainable use based on science and research. Norway has completed two trips in Antarctica with our new research vessel, Crown Prince Haakon, in the spring of 2019. These fools gave important knowledge. It is important that countries themselves can raise money for sustainable development and become independent of development aid in the long term. The government is therefore working to increase the tax intake in developing countries. Global health and education remain a priority area for Norwegian development assistance. Education is one of the most important contributions to sustainable development and a key to increasing equality and inclusion of vulnerable and marginalised groups. Together with government leaders from Germany and Ghana, Prime Minister Solberg has called on the World Health Organisation to take the lead in developing an action plan aimed at exploring the progress of health-related sustainability goals, through better interaction and work sharing between 12 global health actors. The disease picture in the world is changing, and non-infectious diseases are now the main cause of premature death. Following a call from Stortinget, the government is now developing a strategy for Norwegian development cooperation to reduce non-infectious diseases. The strategy will be launched nationally and internationally in October this year. Norway has carried out the third periodic national review of the UN Human Rights Council. The government is actively working to protect and strengthen human rights internationally, with particular emphasis on women's rights. It has recently been decided that half of all bilateral development aid should have an equal opportunities component. Norway plays a particularly active role in promoting women's sexual and reproductive health and dishes. The government is working purposefully to help Norwegian citizens abroad and ensure good consular services. In June, five orphaned children were brought home from Syria. It is important for Norway to strengthen preparedness and ability to manage, within the framework of NATO, the most comprehensive tasks: collective defence of Norway and allies against threats, attacks and attacks. NATO is the cornerstone of Norwegian security policy, and Norway has continued to actively contribute to the alliance. by implementing a new command structure and participating in NATO response forces, operations and exercises. The government has met the need for close dialogue with the close allies on allied presence, training and practice here in the country. An updated superior concept has been developed to accommodate allied reinforcements to Norway in a crisis situation. The government has also continued its efforts towards closer security cooperation in Europe. As part of the Norwegian Presidency of Nordic cooperation in the area of security and defence policy, NORDEFCO, a vision for Nordic defence cooperation was developed towards 2025. The government has also carried out the important work of building the ground wall on which the operational potential of the Defence Agency is based. The operating situation in the defence sectors, the Home Office, the Defence Logistics Organisation and the Cyber Defense are all greatly improving, which helps to make the defence more accessible and sustainable. The government implements a range of investments in both material and property, construction and construction to strengthen operational capability. In 2019, Norway has received an additional six F-35 fighter aircraft and has now taken over a total of 22 fighter planes. New logistics vessel, KNM Maud, is in place, several crews have been built for the Navy vessel, and to compensate for the loss of the frigate KNM Helge Ingstad, the other frigates sail more than planned. Home protection is strengthened by increasing the level of exercise and by significant investments in modern clothing and equipment. The army has been supplied with the last of a total of 144 CV90 tanks, which provide the departments with increased mobility, firepower and protection. The Artilleribatalion in Brigade North is being promoted to establish combat air defence in the Army. The government is further working on implementing key personnel reforms, such as the military and education reform scheme, to adapt the personnel and competences structure to the needs of defence. Recognition, supervision and follow-up of personnel before, during and after international operations are important to the government, and therefore work has been started on a growing awareness of the issues. The government has presented a holistic plan for the work on object security in the police and the defense. The time of completion of the Defence Investment Programme for securing displayable objects totaling 450 million. SEK has been forced by two years until the end of 2023. Temporary protective measures have been taken on items with unsatisfactory preventative fuses. The government has defined a new object protection instruction for the use of security forces in the police and the defense. This year's contract audits in pay terms have essentially been solved through negotiations and mediation. As of 1 July, that would be one case of compulsory pay. The number of conflicts has been low. The government has sent a proposal to increase the competence of the Labour Inspectorate to oversee the area of residence. The government has also worked towards closer cooperation with the EU and some Member States on the fight against cross-border labour crime. The government wants more people who observe critical conditions at work to dare say so. On 11 June the European Parliament adopted proposals for changes to the laws aimed at making it safer and easier to notify. The changes follow the alert selection’s suspension, NOW 2018: 6, and enter into force on 1 January 2020. We have a common goal of a good and serious working life in Norway. It is important that workers have good and safe working conditions. For the enterprises, fair conditions of competition are decisive. Following dialogue with the social partners, the government has developed a revised and expanded strategy against the crime of working life. There is broad control cooperation between public authorities. This cooperation has been reinforced by increased efforts to promote prevention, to strengthen the knowledge base and to provide more targeted information to consumers, workers and enterprises. Sick leave was slightly reduced in 2018, but it went up in the second quarter of this year. Sick leave is 2,2 pst per second quarter of 2019. higher than in the second quarter of 2018, adjusted for seasonal and influenza variations. One of the objectives of the new IA agreement is to reduce sick leave by 10 pst. from the annual average in 2018. The parties to the agreement are some of them about setting up a series of new tools. It will be implemented, inter alia: a new work environment initiative focusing on knowledge development, dissemination and guidance in preventive work environment work for use in each individual workplace. A portal shall be established on the Labour Inspectorate’s websites to disseminate knowledge and competence on the effective preventive work environment. Sectoral programmes shall be established to target efforts against industry and sectors with the potential to reduce sick leave and non-response. A test of competence measures shall also be initiated for long-term health practitioners who, due to illness or injury, are unable to return to the former employer. As of 1 September, an early-stage system was in place to provide support for expert assistance in specific complex cases. Throughout 2019, the Directorate for Building Quality has continued to work on digitising and simplifying the construction process. The new generation of digital building applications can now be submitted to the municipality via Fellestenester BYGG on the Altinn platform. A more efficient construction shaft process leads to faster building. The government has commissioned OsloMet, Societal Economic Analysis and Property Value to set up a new housing market research centre. The centre has been named Housing Lab and it will increase its knowledge of how the housing market works and how it is linked to the economy. Planning by design and building law is one of the keys to sustainable development in the whole country. The government will help to adapt today's rules and processes to the need to speed up the transformation of worn urban areas into new attractive high-quality arc areas. Urban growth agreements shall also contribute to more efficient land use and more attractive urban and urban centres. At the turn of the year, Norway will have new and fewer municipalities and county municipalities. Fewer and stronger units should provide better services to citizens and businesses. This is necessary to meet the requirements of the inhabitants of the local services where they live. Local and regional reform strengthens local democracy and adds new and important tasks to the regions and municipalities. The government will continue the municipal reform with good local processes. The government has presented a new transparency action plan for administrations. The two-year plan contains eight obligations in the areas of ‘integrity and openness in administration’, ‘open data and re-use of public data’ and ‘openness of procurement, real law-holders and anti-corruption’. The annual EU digitisation index shows that Norway is no. 5 in Europe, by Finland, Sweden, the Netherlands and Denmark. The use of public digital services is increasing dramatically. In 2018, there were under 140 million logins in the ID port, an increase from about 114 million in 2017. Together with the municipal sector, the government has launched a low-threshold provision of digital skills. Those who do not have experience in using the Internet and digital tools may be helped to get started. On 11 June, the government presented the strategy «Éin digital public sector – Digitalisation strategy for the public sector 2019–2025». For the first time, the government and the KS present a strategy with common objectives and actions. The aim of the strategy is to make users experience a digital public sector. The strategy prioritises the development of coherent services for seven important life events, so that users are now given coherent services in these areas, with easy digital access. Artificial intelligence will have a major impact on developments in time – both in the private and public sectors. Therefore, the government will develop a holistic strategy for artificial intelligence in Norway. It will be aimed at presenting the strategy during 2019. Private actors invest about 10 billion. kr annually in echonets and services. Changes in the rental regulations make it cheaper to build networks that can deliver fast, good services across the country. Agreement has been reached on the release of frequencies in the 700 MHz band from 1 November 2019 onwards. These frequency resources were allocated to new users during the June auction. This facilitates the early launch of 5G mobile broadband. The state contributed to broadband in areas to which the market did not extend. In 2019, a total of 250 million will be allocated. kr for the purpose. The value of the state's direct ownership of Oslo Børs was 698 billion. kr at the end of 2018. The state's share of the book value of non-listed companies in which the state has commercial objectives with ownership was 135 billion. kr. For the 2018 accounting year, the government received about 43 billion. kr in dividends from the direct State-owned companies. To help solve the communication challenges in the north, the government has granted up to 101 million equity. U.S. dollars to Space Norway AS. The aim is to realize a two-satellite project to provide broadband communication in the Arctic. Norway will continue its efforts to expand Norway's network of mandatory trade agreements. After eight years of negotiations, Norway signed a free trade agreement with Indonesia last year. The agreement will provide Norwegian companies with better access to the fourth most popular country in the world, strengthen the competitiveness of Norwegian companies and contribute positively to the Norwegian economy. In November 2018, the government presented a major commercial industry notification. The industry has a lot to say about the Norwegian economy and value creation. The Communication contains 39 measures for sustainable growth and for the conversion of trade in goods. There are few actors in the daily food industry and it is difficult for new actors to establish themselves. The government has therefore strengthened the enforcement of competition law in the grocery market. In April 2019, the government presented a big message on smarter public procurement. The aim is to facilitate a holistic and effective procurement policy. The message contains a number of actions to contribute to more professional, innovative and environmentally friendly procurement. In business simplification, digitisation of reporting processes has produced results, including: electronic handling of sick messages. In the period 2011–2017, annual costs to industry decreased by 15 billion. kr by simplifying reporting, laws and regulations. For 2018, preliminary estimates show that simplifications amount to 2 billion. In June 2019, the government presented a new strategy for culture and tourism, with a focus on cultural tourism. The strategy does well for policy and government action to make Norway a more attractive cultural destination. In June 2019, the government also issued a major communication on maritime safety – Interaction for better maritime safety. In 2017, marine industries accounted for a value creation equivalent to 680 billion. kr, which corresponds to 30 pst. of the value creation of Norwegian business. Research, development and innovation are crucial to trigger future marine opportunities. The government supported the development of new competences and technologies in the marine industries by nearly 4.2 billion. kr in 2018, an increase of over 1.8 billion. kr since 2014. In June 2019, the government issued a big message on a new and forward-looking quota system in fisheries. The aim is to facilitate the creation of even greater values of Norway’s rich fishing resources and to provide a simpler, more flexible and efficient system for the fishing industry. 2018 was a year of extreme variation in rainfall and congestion. Missing rainfall mostly resulted in a hydrological deficit of 27 TWh in the hydropower system. The situation in electricity supply and the increase in CO 2 prices in Europe contributed to higher Norwegian electricity prices in winter 2018/2019 than in many years. In order to improve the situation, additional support was provided by the government on a proposal to cover increased electricity costs for households with a weak economy. In 2018, power generation in Norway was 145,7 TWh. A new record was recorded in the power consumption, with a consumption of 135.4 TWh. The increase came from cold weather in the spring, increased electrification and increased consumption in the power-intensive industry and the petroleum sector. 2018 still with a net export of 10.3 TWh. For the first half of 2019, we have imported more force than we have exported. The conversion to a low-carbon society requires increasingly renewable energy, and electricity in particular. Norwegian electricity supply, together with electricity supply in Iceland, has the highest renewable share and the lowest emissions in Europe. About 98 pst. the output was from the water and wind power. During 2018, 2.7 TWh new power generation was in operation. At the beginning of 2019, around 9.2 TWh were new renewable power generation under construction, mainly wind power. Norway's watercourse and energy directorate, NVE, has developed a proposal for a national framework for shore-based wind power. The aim is to manage the location of new projects. NVE has proposed 13 areas as the most suitable for wind power. The proposal has been on a broad roll. The government has followed up the 30 pst target. improving energy intensity by 2030 through a comprehensive effort to improve energy efficiency. The government is working on full-scale CO 2 handling, and funds have been set up, among others. drilling a well for CO 2 storage. The Ministry of Oil and Energy has granted exploitation permits for the storage of CO 2 on Norwegian continental shelf. Total petroleum production in 2018 was at the lower edge of 4 million barrels of oil equivalent per day. After a slight decrease in 2019, total production is expected to increase towards approx. 2023. Norway covers about 25 pst. of the EU’s gas consumption and inputs to the transition to a renewable low-emission society in Europe. There are 85 fields in production, and the additional 20 projects are under construction over the entire base. The industry's potential for conversion has ensured profitability and has contributed to the development of its activity on a Norwegian base. After a bottom in 2017, investments increased to 145 billion. kr in 2018 and are expected to rise to SEK 170 billion. kr in 2019, corresponding to 20 p.m. of the aggregated investments. In order to maintain the level of activity after 2020, new findings need to be made. Oil and gas industries will continue to play an important role in the Norwegian economy for a long time in the future and will make a significant contribution to the future financing of the Norwegian welfare community. The country's total petroleum income was 251 billion. kr in 2018 and is estimated at 263 bn. kr in year, corresponding to 21 pst. of the total income of the country. Knowledge and competence in the industry also contribute to other continental economies through learning processes, transfer of competences and innovation. The supplier industry is Norway's second largest industry, after the sale of oil and gas. Industry creates many jobs and industrial development in all countries. About 30 pst. the turnover of the supplier industry comes from international markets. Early efforts are crucial to provide all children and young people with training to advance them to the future. The government is intensifying its efforts and will present a paper on early efforts and inclusive communities in the autumn of 2019. An increasing number of children from low-income families are able to go to kindergarten. From the fall of 2019, two-year-olds from families with low income are also included in the free core time scheme. New curriculums for all subjects in the primary school and the ongoing courses in further education have been on a broad listen in spring 2019. The curricula shall be ready to be launched in the autumn of 2020. Government's commitment to skills development for kindergarten teachers and schools continues. Decentralised mechanisms for the allocation of means of competence shall contribute to good local solutions. This has been a positive development for professionals in recent years. More people are looking for a profession, more people are getting a job, and more people are completing and taking a letter. In the period 2012–2018, the pledges to strengthen the profession have increased by more than 600 million. kr. In 2017, the government set up an expert selection to look at financing life support for adults taking primary school or further training. The selection delivered its report in November 2018. In 2017, the government reduced the choice of competence needs in order to provide the best possible professional assessment of Norway’s competence needs. The selection delivered its second report in February 2019. In 2018, the government reduced the expert selection for continuing training. The selection has assessed whether the education system is able to meet the needs for continuing education and training and whether the framework conditions for investing in new competences are good enough. The selection delivered its report in June 2019. In 2017, the government reduced a selection to assess and propose different training models. The selection delivered a partial setting in December 2018. The main setting will take place in December 2019. Norway has concluded ‘publishers and readers’ agreements in 2019 with several of the largest publishers of scientific journals. The agreements allow Norwegian researchers to publish a good deal of articles open every year without additional costs. This is an important step in the work of open access to research. Norway is still at government level of ambition for participation in the EU Framework Programme for Research and Innovation, Horizon 21. Norwegian participants have received over 2 pst. of the funds announced in the framework programme so far. The government has allocated funding to study places so that annual admissions can increase by over 300 places in 2019. More than ever, higher education has been offered in Norway. In the autumn of 2018, the government presented revised long-term plan for research and higher education, Meld. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. The message also contained the government's plan for the development, management and prioritisation of university and university buildings. Cost-effective university and university buildings contributing to innovation and climate-friendly solutions are an important element of the plan. The government announced in the plan that it would develop and implement green indicators to visualize and monitor climate and environmental impacts in campus development. Cooperation between universities and higher education institutions and the world of work is important in order to combine what students learn with the needs of future working life. The government has started working on a big message of work relevance in higher education. The government has high ambitions to strengthen the internationalisation of higher education, and has therefore started work on a major message on international student mobility. A process has been added that includes all relevant actors. As of 2019, changes have been made to the Loan Conversion Scheme in the Loan Fund to provide higher education students with a stronger incentive to complete their full degree. At the same time, the study support was expanded by an additional week in spring 2019. The annual support for the 2018–2019 study year is DKK 11600 higher than it would have been without the investments that have been carried out in the period 2014–2019. Unit – The Directorate for ICT and Joint Services in Higher Education and Research – has, in cooperation with universities and universities, seen a governance model and an action plan for the follow-up to the digitalisation strategy for the university and higher education sectors. The government has established a governance model for information security and a set of 70 million. over a four-year period to Unit of a programme for information security in the university and higher education sectors. The government follows the National Teacher Training Strategy, Teacher Training 2025. The Parties’ National Forum on Teacher Training and Professional Development, NFLP, and the Expert Board for Teacher Training are working on the development and quality assurance of teacher training. The government prioritises recruitment and qualification measures to meet the need for qualified teachers in the coming years. The government has had an extensive escalation in order to build more student housing and has since 2014 given record-breaking awards for student building. In addition, the government has adjusted cost frameworks and incentives. In 2019, grants were granted for 3,400 student housing, but only applications for 1,448 new student rents were received, all of which were granted. In 2018, more than 44 000 people participated in training in Norwegian and social sciences, and about 27 000 people participated in the introduction programme. The number of participants is still high in 2019. In August, a proposal to repeal the Introduction Act was sent to the audience and to introduce a new law on integration. The legislative proposal shall contribute to the participation of more immigrants in the labour market. In 2018, 4,903 refugees were resident in 224 municipalities. 194 of the refugees were single minors. The construction was in line with the need to gather. In 2019, among other things, focussed on steered and scattered construction, opportunities for work in the region, results from the introduction programme, population figures and numbers of immigrants, as well as capacity and competence to ensure good integration work in the municipality. Consideration shall also be given to the need for labour in the region and building history. The government has reduced a city and living conditions selection. The selection shall identify the extent of geographic concentration of living conditions challenges in and around the major cities of Norway, discuss possible causes and hazard signals and propose measures. The selection shall assess the policy and means of action in this area, both at State, regional and municipal level. Efforts to combat negative social control and forced marriages have been stepped up. Among other things, the arrangements for minority advisors are strengthened. The government has presented the voluntary communication, which sets out four objectives: broad participation, a strong and independent sector, a simplification reform for voluntary work and better coordination of voluntary policies. The government has put forward a strategy to strengthen Norway's position as a cultural destination and to increase the overall value creation of Norwegian cultural and business life. The government is developing a new action plan for equal opportunities for people with disabilities. The action plan will be submitted in 2019. The government has provided national library strategy for the period 2020-2023. The Ministry of Culture has concluded an agreement with TV 2 on general commercial broadcasting for the period from 1 January 2019 to 31 December 2023. The government has started working on a new museum building for Saemien Sijte in Snåsa. Norwegian health records were officially opened on Tynset on June 4. Changes to the City Name Act that entered into force on 1 July include: greater freedom for municipalities to decide on city names. Temporary internal border controls on ferries with traffic towards Sweden, Denmark and Germany continued in 2019 until 11 November. The need for further forwarding of internal border controls is assessed against developments in the security situation. The number of asylum seekers to Norway is still low. The low number of asylum seekers and irregular migrants hang among others. together with actions on the external borders and European cooperation with third countries. The majority has agreed to the conclusion by Norway and Sweden of an agreement on mutual assistance between the special police intervention units in emergency situations, cf. Inner. 359 S for 2018-2019. At the suggestion of the government, the Stortinget has passed a new inheritance law that is adapted to today's family patterns and social developments. The size has joined the government’s proposal for new rules in the law on disposal, which will contribute to safer and more prudent housing trading with a better information base. The majority have agreed with the government's proposal to make changes to the rules on non-enforcement of criminal law, judgment on special reaction and expertise in the field of legal psychiatry, which will contribute to better enforcement in identifying non-punishment offenders and to strengthening the protection of society and the quality of the work of legal psychiatrists. Digital security is a priority area for government. In January, the government launched a new national digital security strategy that provides the basis for making digital Norway even safer. Among other things, a national cybersecurity centre is now established as part of the NSM and a national cybercrime centre as part of Kripos. The establishment of centres is an important step towards pooling skills and capacities and facilitating increased public-private cooperation. Work on strengthening national security has continued and a new regulatory safety law entered into force on 1 January 2019. In order to strengthen the security work in the civil sector, a new State Council post has been created as Minister of Social Security in the Ministry of Justice and Defence, and the administrative responsibility for national security authorities and security laws has been transferred to the Ministry of Justice and Defence. The government is busy adapting the capacity of criminal services to changes in the crime scene. In 2019, Arendal prison, Evje, opened a department with 30 new women’s prisons, with places with both a high and a lower level of security. 300 new high-security prison sites are under construction in Agder. The establishment of new prison sites helps improve the conditions for deployment and reduce the extent of isolation. In the spring of 2019, the government presented the new Action Plan against Elections. The action plan shall contribute to ensuring good anchoring, sound and co-ordinated efforts in an area where many sectors are involved. The government is pursuing a holistic and offensive policy against violence in close relations and has been working on a new national action plan in this area, with its own right towards violence in the Sami environment. In the state budget for 2019, it is worth 50 million. to increase the response to crime against the population and young people. The funds are distributed between the police, the conflict councils and child protection. Two new units against animal welfare crime are established, respectively, in the Inland and West police districts. A total of five units have now been established against animal welfare crime in the country. The government has implemented a series of measures to ensure that people in Longyearbyen stay safe. Landsbyggen completed in July 2019 the last 30 out of 60 new dwellings listed in the Gruvedalen in Longyearbyen in 2018–2019. The NVE has continued its efforts to secure the bus in Longyearbyen against flooding and tailoring damage. The government has started working on a growing message of relief and care, and aims to present the message during 2019. In 2019, the government created an incentive for the establishment of the local kitchen in hospitals and in nursing homes for people with daily services. The government has provided a major communication on public health policy, such as: includes a strategy to prevent loneliness. A new national tobacco strategy for the 2019–2021 period is also part of the message. The overarching objectives of the tobacco strategy are to achieve a tobacco-free generation of young people and to motivate more adults to quit tobacco use. Over 80 pst. during the autumn of 2018, residents of the country have obtained access to their own patient records in hospitals through secure login to healthnorge.no. This is an important step towards the patient’s health care. In May, the State Investigation Commission on Health and Care Services, UKOM, was established. The USO shall investigate serious events and other serious circumstances in order to improve patient and user safety in the healthcare service. The purpose of the investigations is to address the course of events, the causes and the causes of events in order for one to learn from and prevent serious events. The investigation commission shall not rule on civil or criminal liability and guilt. From 1 July 2019, the parental pension scheme has been improved for premature children. The parental leave period is extended by the number of days from the actual date of birth to the date of the term, if the child is born before week 33. The government has downgraded a public selection to go through and modernise children's lives. The selection shall assess the rights of children from an international perspective and in the light of developments in human rights. The government is implementing a child protection reform and is working on proposals for a new child protection law. In addition, a digital boost for municipal child protection has been launched through the DigiBarnever Municipal State Cooperation Project. The government has submitted a message to Stortinget on consumer policy. The message shall facilitate a more efficient consumption and strong consumer protection in the digital everyday life. Many individuals have problems paying back their consumption debts. The government has granted a concession to three entities to share consumer credit information between financial corporations. Thus, banks can make credit ratings better before new loans are granted. The government has agreed with the Norwegian Rein driftsssamer Landsförbund on a reindeer management agreement that facilitates a positive development of the industry. Proposals for a regulation on compensation after the closure of fur animal husbandry have been in the process of being heard. The government proposes that the compensation regulation be established and that the conversion funds scheme be ready before the end of the year. In March 2019, the Forest and Wood Industries strategy – a green conversion driver – was launched. The strategy refers to the field of action in order to allow the industry to make an increased contribution to the pooling of value creation and greening through product development and increased market turnover. The final figures from the municipalities, the KOSTRA valley, show that the re-disposal of cultivated land was 3 561 dekar in 2018, well below the soil protection target of 4000 dekars that Stortinget has agreed to. Road construction and maintenance activities are high. Several installations have been opened for traffic. The opening of the Hålogalandsbrua reduces travel times between Narvik and Tromsø by up to 20 minutes. The government has taken several measures to reduce the toll burden on the car list. In the last five years, the toll section has been reduced by the closure of toll stations, the creation of the toll reduction scheme outside the urban areas and the increase of government contributions to projects. In the revised budget for 2019, EUR 200 million was committed. kr to delete tolls. Toll reform includes: the number of toll companies reduced from more than 50 to 5 regional toll companies. Traffic safety work is a high priority. In 2018, 108 people died in road accidents. This is the second lowest number since 1947. Controlled for the number of inhabitants and kilometers run, the number of killers is also lowest in Europe, and it is for the fourth consecutive year. The state road system is undergoing major changes in order to adapt to future work. With the location of the head office of the new trade divisions, we carry out one of the largest transfers of government jobs from Oslo for many years, and ensure that the state road system is in place throughout the country. The government is working for a coordinated land and transport policy with objectives of efficient and climate-friendly urban transport. In 2019, the Trondheims area has reached such a high level of urban sprawl. A draft urban capital speech for Oslo and Akershus is for local political treatment. By means of the agreements, the State has considerable resources for measures to improve public transport, cycling and walking. More and more journeys by rail. In order to make rail attractive for both passenger and freight transport, the government has implemented a reform in the rail sector. The contract for the traffic on the routes Sørlandsbanen, Arendalsbanen and Jærbanen was concluded with Go-Ahead Norway AS at the end of October 2018. In June 2019, a contract was concluded with SJ Norge AS to operate the northernmost sections. This leads to better train provision, while releasing significant resources that have been used to purchase passenger train services. The new port and maritime law will help achieve transport and industrial policy objectives and ensure environmental protection. Promises open, including: to allow municipalities, under certain conditions, to benefit from municipal port operations. Municipalities may also restrict or temporarily reject the arrival of vessels at port, in order to avoid or limit local air pollution. The law has been made technology-neutral so that autonomous vessels that are exempt can be allowed not to use a pilot's licence. The requirement is that this does not impair the safety of the water. Changes in professional transport laws include: suspending the pilot licence test and the obligation to be a centralist. The legislative changes will make it easier to establish themselves in the industry, which will facilitate better competition in the taxi market and contribute to better provision for customers. In order to ensure a satisfactory supply of taxis in lower population and scattered bus services, counties shall have the possibility to grant one-off rights for taxi transport in such areas for a limited period of time. In 2019, the Ministry of Transport concluded new supply contracts for the operation of regional scheduled flights in South Norway from 1 April 2020. The operation of Haugesund Airport Karmøy was transferred in May 2019 from Avinor AS to local operators that will further develop the route offer. In 2019, Avinor AS conducted a tender for air navigation services at Kristiansand Airport Kjevik and Ålesund Airport Vigra in force from 2020. An independent expert selection on technology and future transport infrastructure delivered its report in June 2019. New technologies are part of the solution to many of the challenges in the transport sector. The report includes: advice on how work on the next national transport plan should be undertaken, in order to achieve even better solutions and to increase socio-economic profitability in the light of rapid technological changes. The government has continued to cooperate with industry to strengthen green value creation. In June, the government organised the Climate Change Conference of the Economy, with particular emphasis on following up the road maps of the various industries in relation to green competitiveness. On a proposal from Norway, we were able to make changes to the Basel Convention on the Strengthening Global Control of Plastic Waste. At the same time, we are working for a new global agreement against plastic waste. We've got a lot of things to do. adopted a Nordic Ministerial Declaration inviting other countries to support such an agreement. The government follows up the natural disaster message in order to ensure sustainable use and conservation of Norwegian nature. Norway actively contributed internationally to the work of a new global nature agreement to be adopted in China in 2020. The government is continuing to improve forest protection. Since October 2018 it is protected 109 forest areas. A total of 4.9 pst. of the forest in Norway and 3,7 pst. the productive forest is now protected. The government has followed up the clearance of the open-air message and presented a new action plan to strengthen the management of protected areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-02.ana.ud199e652	Your Majesty, Your Royal Highness, co-representatives! We're opening today that 164th big deal. Once again, the people's elected representatives are sitting in this room to get to grips with the great tasks we're entrusted with. We do that at a time when the belief in and trust in the democratic institutions continues to crack in the bonds in many places. There is little evidence to suggest that the development that has disturbed us for years is about to turn around. Especially alarming is the fact that the belief in democratic traditions, democratic rules and their supporting institutions may appear to be under attack from above and below in some of the oldest and foremost democracies among us. Fortunately, the elections in September indicate that our own democracy is still in good health. Election participation in the municipal and county elections of the year was an increase from 2015. There is reason to rejoice, not least for a year in which we celebrate our 100th anniversary, so that the poor-supported were no longer excluded from using their voting rights. Widows who needed help putting food on the table for their children were no longer considered irresponsible citizens who had to be kept away from the polls. Being left out of work as a result of an accident or illness no longer led to exclusion from democratic participation. It gives substance to think that there are only three generations since our own democratic development had finally reached the point where the right to vote became a right for all. It's our responsibility as elected representatives every day to manage the tasks we have, in such a way that the population still thinks it's right, natural and necessary to avail themselves of our ancestors' rights. One week ago I was asked many questions about how we work at Stortinget, when I visited Vadsø primary school. A wise student asked me, Is it hard to respect each other on the Storting? I said, no, it's not hard. The question is, however, good. It goes right to the core of some of the challenges we can face, which have already come to the surface in several countries. We ourselves risk becoming a danger to democracy if we fail to show each other and those we represent, that our political work is marked by respect for the trust shown to us by the voters, and respect for the fact that our political opponents also represent opinions that have won a legitimate place in this Chamber through elections. We know that we are closely followed by voters who, at the next elections, must also be able to give their voice in conviction, not only in hope, that the next chosen ones will spend their time and energy on the important things, to find solutions to the questions that burn in people's everyday lives – as good health services when needed, for climate and environment, and a secure society with hope for the future and opportunities for all. I have no doubt that this is what we all want for the big year we are going into. Children and young people who do not have their own voting rights follow us closely. They've used the power in the right to raise their voice, by roaring for what they're burning for. They and others like them should also be taken seriously and treated with respect, whether we share their views or not. I'm sure we'll do the same. When we meet again for responsible work, it is certain of the great tasks ahead of us, and of the responsibility we have assumed. We gather together in the old desire: God preserve the King and the homeland!
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-02.ana.ud199e673	The President will propose that the speech of His Majesty the King and the report on the state and government of the kingdom be discussed at a later meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
