ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e91	The representatives of Liv Kari Eskeland, Ketil Kjenseth, Espen Barth Eide, Tore Storehaug, Ingvild Kjerkol and Lene Westgaard-Halle, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The called alternate for Nordland, Kjell-Idar Juvik, is now taking the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e120	Councillor Olug Vervik Bollestad exceeded 5 kg. propositions [[see Unit]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e125	The representative, Arne Nävra, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e130	I am delighted to present a very important proposal for a representative, from the representatives of Lars Haltbrecken, Kari Elisabeth Kaski and myself, to investigate the collection of lead from shooting tracks and the ban on lead-containing ammunition in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e135	The representative, Mr Knag Fylkesnes, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e140	On behalf of the representatives of Audun Lysbakken, Torleif Hamre, Mona Fagerås and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a representative on the rapid establishment of the state operation of the air ambulance service. Because of the seriousness of the matter, I ask that she be treated in accordance with Section 39c of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e145	These proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's Storting meeting is suspended at 0 p.m. 13.45 for The Storting's Christmas ounce. Furthermore, the President will inform you that the meeting will be resumed at 9 p.m. 15.30 and continues until the current map has been processed.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e165	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines will be given with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Those who had to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e176	I would like to thank the co-operation committee and the setting set up. During the processing of the agricultural message in the previous period, a collected bulk was collected in order to increase the level of self-sufficiency in Norway. It means, without a person having anything to say, that a mere plurality on the Stortinget decided that one should step him up. Developments in the last year are negative. Developments are towards a lower level of self-sufficiency in Norway than we've had in previous years, and it doesn't seem to turn around. We become more dependent on imports of goods, whether it is pure food or feed ingredients. So we have an agricultural policy that undermines the objective that the Stortinget has seen. In the proposal for a representative, the Stortinget had the opportunity to specify what a level of self-sufficiency was available. Then the government decided not to quantify it, not to mention what direction they wanted, but a collective opposition went in so that the goal of 50 pst. self-sufficiency rate in 2026 is a natural objective, if any. The second proposal, perhaps the most important one, is the proposal that one should have a stepping-up plan for an even greater degree of self-sufficiency in the long term. The government party itself can explain why they do not want to put this into practice, and why they rely on a policy that actually reduces the level of self-sufficiency and makes us more dependent on imports. From the perspective of SV, this is a crucially important proposal. Firstly, it is about security – about food security. In the world we are now seeing, earth's impoverishment is going globally faster than we've ever believed. Globally, the earth is becoming more plunging. UN calculations show that about 50 pst. of productive soil worldwide is so depleted or depleted that one cannot get it out of the earth that one has previously received. For the first time, the UN cereal organisation also states that an estimate of a decline in the production of future grain is estimated for the first time. Neither pesticides, different sprays, nor new technologies are now able to stop the negative developments on land. So we're going into a time when access to food and food ingredients actually goes down. The fact that Norway will then meet such a development in making us even more dependent on imports is, of course, a dangerous development. From a purely security perspective, it is only right for Norway to increase the level of self-sufficiency and to set strategies for it. In a different perspective, we see that today we are sequestrating almost as much land abroad to supply our own agriculture as what we use of land in Norway today. In my county, since the end of the 1950s, it has been a reduction in the use of productive land of over 40 pst. So we're building up productive land use in Norway today, while making ourselves more dependent on land use in other countries. If the boat that picks up soya from Brazil, the one that comes every week with a lot of thousands of tons of soya to Norway, for different reasons, stops coming to Norway – because of a crisis on the southern hemisphere or because Brazil wants to use these resources differently – then we are in a bad position. Norway is one of the countries in our part of the world that has the lowest self-sufficiency rate of absolutely everyone. Hence, it's quite surprising that the government party is well meeting the situation we see globally, continuing as before. It is quite irresponsible, and I hope that today's debate can at least give an argument about what development they want in agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e199	Would the representative, Mr Knag County, like to make a proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e204	That's right. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e209	The representative Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes then mentioned the proposals SV is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e214	It's a very optimistic day, because what's now being treated in the Storting, especially with three distinct red-green proposals, testifies that there's going to be a new spring for food policy in Norway. There is a direction for a better balance in a number of areas. Let me start with a special mention of three. It's about a better course for the safety of people in our country, it's about having a food production that preserves our biodiversity throughout Norway, and it's of course about providing a course for our food policy that gives hope for jobs across the country. We take security first, because it is crucial for the thinking of the red-green proposals that we are about to deal with. The Swedish Defence Research Institute has recently been very committed to security and preparedness issues, and in one of the recent reports, the Swedish Defence Research Institute gives us a clear message as elected representatives. The report is called Food Safety from a Climate Perspective. What the Defence Research Institute has done is to go into the evolution that we've seen in the world since the 2000s. The conclusion is unambiguous and clear: there have been several cases of marked price increases in the central food that provides food to the world's population, and there are food such as rice, wheat, maize and soya. According to the Swedish Research Institute, the reason why this is so important in the time we are now going into is that food can also become a strategic commodity. It is no longer just about trade, but it is also about linking food to military and strategic interests in the different countries. When a population is at risk of losing access to enough food, it can create both social destabilization and enormous frustration. One of the underlying causes of the riots that we have seen in the Middle East in recent years is happening, among other things. on the availability of food. During the first demonstrations in what was called the Arab Spring, people had broken out on the streets to mark the fear of increased bread prices, and it was as a result of, among other things. failing crops in the area around Ukraine, which is one of the few countries in the world exporting cereals to a large extent. The same is true of the government's own climate risk selection and says that there may be shortages of essential goods as a result of a more unpredictable climate. So the recognition is clear: it's not possible to create security and a stable society if you only have balls, but you don't have food. We have also been clearly exposed to this in Norway. Norway is one of the most vulnerable countries in the world, given that we can be cut off from maritime trade. It happened during World War I, and it happened during the Napoleonic wars, which was the cause of the poem about Terje Vigen, as Henrik Ibsen wrote. The third part of the proposal today, in the Workers' Party, we are very happy to have a point that we have been working on now in this big time period. In the spring of 2018, we presented our stepping-up plan for safe food production on Norwegian resources, and there is now a red-green agreement that we should implement. There is also agreement that we should get a proper risk and vulnerability analysis that takes into account precisely the elements that I have now explained about developments in the world in terms of increasing food security. And there is agreement to set a governance target, which is important to us, that agricultural policy should now move in the direction we are now drawing, so that we can, through large and small measures, ensure that we get better and more balanced and sustainable development. All in all, this is a very optimistic day, and it marks a distinction and offers a renewed and strengthened agricultural policy and a new spring for jobs throughout our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e229	The representatives of the Senterpartie take up the fact that they believe that Norwegian self-sufficiency in agricultural food should be increased to at least 50 pst. by 2026 Right-wing government is working to facilitate Norwegian agriculture to produce as much as possible of the food Norwegian consumers demand, within the natural framework we have, and not least within the given trade policy frameworks that apply at all times. In terms of the degree of self-sufficiency of agricultural food, there are many factors we need to consider. There are major societal changes in the consumer's attitude to food. The development of the population and the way consumers combine their diet will have a major impact on production potential and on the degree of self-sufficiency. Reports also show that the proportion of both meat and potato that we eat goes down. These are trends that we all, as consumers, politicians and those who produce agricultural products, have to take over. In Norway, we have a consistently high self-sufficiency rate for livestock products and a lower self-sufficiency rate for energy-rich crops for food. We're self-sufficient in roughage, which contains a lot of protein. We have a situation of reduced milk production due to the closure of export subsidies and the previously mentioned rotation of the diet, where especially young and our new countrymen and women eat less meat and potatoes. The market for livestock products, which Norwegian agriculture has good opportunities to produce, is shrinking. Furthermore, we see that the plant food market will increase and potentially contribute to reducing the level of self-sufficiency. The objective of increasing the level of self-sufficiency based on agricultural food is good and good. However, connecting this in an emergency context means I am going to be wrong. To suggest that high levels of self-sufficiency, corrected for imports of feed, increases the security of supply for the Norwegian population, becomes too simple. Several reports have been prepared in recent years by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, which show that Norwegian food safety is good. What we need to bring with us is that climate change can lead to worsening growth conditions, which in turn can lead to both an increase in price levels and a higher price risk. This is closely followed up by the Norwegian authorities. However, Norway is part of the world, and should there be a situation of a failure to import feed, the possibilities of importing all the other inputs that agriculture relies on to import will probably also be affected. I am therefore pleased that we have a government that is committed to having stable and good trade relations with our trading partners in Europe and in other parts of the world. The last agricultural operations have provided for the best possible use of the channelling policy. This means that the use of instruments through agricultural operations is important. This is about the division of labour for the use of agricultural land. Therefore, the production of grass in the cereal regions was reduced and pasture-grain subsidies were reinforced. We have then been given a boost to the economy of the grain farmers, so that grain is now grown on areas that are well suited for this. Then work is done on various projects in the industry to improve roughage production and improve the quality of feed. These are important contributions to which it is interesting to follow. The representatives included in the proposal the theme of self-sufficiency in agricultural food. This is of course important, but in terms of total self-sufficiency, what we produce or pick up from the sea should also be considered.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e248	There is agreement to increase the level of self-sufficiency. That's good. But there is a need to make concrete, and there is a need to set goals. Why is self-sufficiency important? Well, he's important because we have to use the resources we have in our country. We need to strengthen both national and global food production. The level of self-sufficiency is important for preparedness, it is important for district policy, and it is important for building and value creation throughout the country. It is also about securing Norwegian consumers enough safe and clean food. In the media, a common focus is that we are in a surplus situation when it comes to Norwegian food. That's not true. The problem is that we have an overimport of food into Norway. There is a need to strengthen national food production and this must be done on the basis of Norwegian resources. The proposal put forward will have implications for the way in which agricultural policy is designed. Measures need to be taken to achieve such a target. I can name a lot of people. Stronger soil protection is one natural measure. There is a need to strengthen import protection. An example is Brexit – when the market that the EU has to offer us becomes smaller, what we should pay to the EU in terms of quotas to sell food to Norway should be reduced accordingly to the market that falls away. There is a need to increase cereal areas in Norway and there is a need to increase cereal production in Norway. If we're going to reach the goal, we also have to use our pastures better, and we can't afford to let areas where it's possible to produce food lie fallow. I also believe that an objective of increased self-sufficiency must have a bearing on the design of the legislation. We do not need to introduce rules to restrict the ability to produce food. An example is new EU rules for food production in greenhouses that are to be qualified as organic production. There are new rules going on that I fear will go beyond the Norwegian production of organic products. A central question here is the availability of protein. We need to develop new protein sources that can replace soya. I'm not going to go deep into it, but I think we need to take a discussion about the professional basis to refuse the use of meat-and-bone meal in power-feed. It's a discussion that we haven't had in 20 years. Is that still a professional basis? Is that better than the alternative? There is a high commitment in the Centre Party to strengthen Norwegian agriculture and increase self-sufficiency. I think the list of speakers in this case will show, and we'll come back to a number of different sides of it. The representative Ebbesen showed in his article a number of reports that have been prepared. The reports have a great weakness, and it's that they assume that the same thing that happens in the world, whether it's climate or war, is going to happen. The central party thinks that when we're planning to get ready, we can't start government planning and believe that they'll be respected whatever happens. One also said that Norway is part of the world. It is difficult to disagree with. Norway has to take its global responsibility by strengthening Norwegian food production, and the objective we have seen in this proposal for a representative will be an important tool. We can't get with the government on this, but it's very happy that the opposition is behind the proposals from the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e269	It is positive that the Central Party, with this proposal for a representative, is once again focusing on one of the most important issues of Norwegian agricultural policy. Work is ongoing on increasing the level of self-sufficiency through food production based on Norwegian resources, and there is broad cross-political agreement that it is one of the most central objectives of agricultural policy. It was established by a Joint Nutritional Committee in which the notification was notified. St. 11 for 2016–2017, Change and development – a future-oriented agricultural production, was addressed in spring 2017. There is also an overall nutrition committee which, in the setting up of this case, underlines the importance of strengthening the efforts to increase the self-sufficiency rate of Norwegian agricultural products based on Norwegian resources. In a world of growing uncertainty, it is important for both food security and preparedness. However, we note that the opposition parties use this opportunity to try to create the impression that they jointly mark the beginning of a new wave of agricultural policy, and that of course is not true. The government has as its priority the aim of working for increased self-sufficiency of Norwegian agricultural food based on Norwegian resources and ongoing work is ongoing. Then report. St. 11 for 2016-2017 was addressed in the spring of 2017, concluded the Christian People’s Party on the principle that the self-sufficiency rate corrected for imports of feed should be taken as the result target for Norwegian food production on Norwegian resources. This is because this definition best captures the purpose of food production based on Norwegian resources and ensures increased self-sufficiency. However, the question of the indicators to be used to define the degree of self-sufficiency is not crucial in this context. It is relatively easy to calculate the degree of self-sufficiency, both with and without correction for imports of feed, so that the status will be known at all times. However, the majority of the Committee, consisting of government parties, points out that if the degree of self-sufficiency – with or without correction for imports of feed – is inserted into a security and preparedness context, as the proposers do, it is by no means an appropriate performance indicator for food preparedness. It does not tell anything about the potential for changes in production and consumption in a given crisis situation. Work to maintain stable trading conditions is important not only for food preparedness but also for agricultural production capacity. If restrictions on the possibility of importing feed were to arise, it must be assumed that there will also be restrictions on the possibility of importing all the other inputs on which agriculture depends. The majority therefore consider that there is no basis for giving some of the calculations specific status as a result indicator of agricultural policy. It is also such that a target of reaching a level of self-sufficiency of at least 50 pst. for Norwegian agricultural food, corrected for feed imports, will have a significant impact on Norwegian agriculture, regardless of the time limit set. This applies not least to the performance of milk producers. Indeed, Norwegian agriculture is currently dependent on importing protein feed raw materials for power-feed production, and it is in reality not possible to replace these imports with the production of protein-rich plants on Norwegian agricultural land without jeopardising the overall grain production. There is broad cross-political consensus among the parties on the Storting to work towards better exploitation of grazing resources through a strengthening of the channelling policy and grant schemes to stimulate increased grazing. However, believing that grass as a protein source can replace protein-rich feed materials such as the soya we import is a mishap. It will include, among others: Documented in detail in a report by Nibio, which was mentioned in the United Nations on 9 December of this year. It is established that Norwegian milk producers, in particular in North Norway, will suffer a dramatic loss of income from reduced use of power feed. If the co-feed fraction in the feed is reduced to 10 pst., the drain per cow will decrease from 7,900 litres on average today to barely 4,400 litres. In full grass-based feeding, the drain will be further reduced to 3,700 litres per cow, i.e. more than half the current level. The Nibio report states that although a reduction in feed costs is introduced into the calculations, the decline in milk income will be largely offset by a lower rate of withdrawal. All parties in this room agree that an important objective of agricultural policy is to increase the self-sufficiency of agricultural food based on Norwegian resources. The government is continuously working for increased self-sufficiency. My call to the proposers will probably be to go round with themselves and think about whether it is a bit premature to set ambitious, time-bound targets where the consequences, especially for Norwegian milk producers, do not seem to be sufficiently taken into account. We think that per now is not the right way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e294	The agricultural policy of the Left is based on managing our national resources, creating values for them and ensuring maximum self-sufficiency and food security. We're going to increase food production as the population grows. Agriculture is a biological industry that is driven in a very long-term perspective and needs long-term, stable framework conditions. The largest possible self-sufficiency can be achieved by exploiting the resources we have. There should be a living agriculture throughout the country. Cultivated and arable land shall be protected and grass and grazing resources shall be used. We must have landowners and farmers with competence, possibilities and limitations to nature and the individual garden. The farmer has to look at the trend of doing the job in a long-term perspective across generations. If we are to achieve the objective of increasing the degree of self-sufficiency, which is behind a total collapse, we are forced to use agricultural land throughout the country. The best agricultural areas must be used for green and food grain, which goes directly to food for people and animal feed. Large imports of animal feed from countries with food shortages and land high in rainforests to produce soya for export are not viable. We need to increase local inputs to feed production in agriculture, both in terms of climate, environment and, of course, for our own self-sufficiency. Fortunately, a lot of exciting work is done within this field, including: Foods of Norway as an important actor. Plant production is the very basis for all agricultural production. Either the production goes to human food or animal feed, the total agricultural area determines the real potential for food production. The agricultural area has fallen. The number of gardening has decreased, and the imports of protein have increased. And although the decline in the number of use is reduced, and there is a great deal of excitement in research and development on feed resources, developments are worrying. Food production will always lead to emissions of greenhouse gases, but it is important that these emissions are part of a circuit. Reduced greenhouse gas emissions from agriculture are a necessary part of a sound agricultural policy. Agriculture is more than anything else an industry dependent on the most stable climate. We honour and stimulate the Norwegian research environment that is developing feed recipes that give less greenhouse gas emissions to grazing animals. Here we also have to pink the industry in order to have a lot of good, necessary grip. The farmer as a self-employed person should have great freedom in the way he or she designs his or her use, his or her everyday life, in the future. At the same time, food production and the environment are of national importance. And what the farmer produces and spends money on is determined by the consumer's demand. The left has great ambitions for the agricultural sector. We want industry to keep pace with sustainable development, we have ambitions that agriculture and forestry themselves will contribute to good and viable production and contribute to increased self-sufficiency. We are overestimated that the best and most effective way to achieve the goal of self-sufficiency is through a good, constructive dialogue with industry, among others. through the annual agricultural negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e320	Norwegian agriculture policy has long been based on Norwegian farmers covering the consumer’s demand for food that we have a natural basis for producing in our country, within the commercial policy frameworks that apply at all times to the country. There is a broad opening in this hall that we should have a high degree of self-sufficiency, yes, as high as possible. As far as possible, production shall take place on Norwegian resources, i.e. use of Norwegian agricultural land. The government has followed up and will continue to pursue that objective in agricultural policy. High Norwegian self-coverage of food requires the optimal use of our relatively limited agricultural area. Much of our land is best suited to grass production, and we have poor conditions for producing energy-rich plant crops for human food. Therefore, Norwegian agriculture is dominated by livestock. We have a high level of supply for livestock products, which have a high production value. At the same time, we have clearly lower self-sufficiency for plant crops for food. This means that measured in value, the Norwegian food industry has a domestic share of about 80 pst. Farming produces a lot of protein in agriculture. The degree of self-sufficiency of protein is at the lower edge of 70 pst. But because we don't grow energy-rich crops like sugar, rice, tropical fruits, nuts and some food grain, self-sufficiency for energy is lower. For agriculture outside fish it has been located at the lower edge of 50 pst. long, and the variation in crop yields, in particular for food grain, affects the figures each year. When self-sufficiency is corrected by imports of feed, it is usually around 40 p.p., but varies according to cereal crops. This shows that there are many ways of showing the share of the domestic market in agriculture and that all are relevant to describing the results of the policy. Therefore, there is no basis for giving a specific performance indicator status to one of them. Of course, this does not mean that the degree of self-sufficiency corrected for imports of feed is not relevant, but there is a need to document the use of Norwegian agricultural land and imports of feed more extensive than that. It also causes the government to report annually to the Stortinge in the farm settlement proposals. There are several things that are important to increase the level of self-sufficiency. The main basis for Norwegian food production using Norwegian agricultural land is that we are competitive in the agricultural sector, with sufficient profitability for farmers – a productive agriculture that adapts production to consumer demand. We are now looking at trends towards lower demand for what we have a high level of self-sufficiency, for example. grass-based livestock food. If it is replaced by increased consumption of fish, fruit and vegetables or goods we cannot produce in Norway, it will be more demanding to increase the overall level of self-sufficiency. Another element is to reduce feed imports and to cover a greater proportion of the feed needs of Norwegian feed. At the centre of it is ongoing work on improving the quality of roughage and increasing the use of roughage. Crustaceans already cover the vast majority of the protein needs of livestock, but there is a need for us to share as much as possible in the least we need, and at the same time to have a high and good production, as well as to facilitate the development of new ways of getting protein into Norwegian feed, from Norwegian resources. That research is quite extensive, and we need it, in addition to increasing grain production with the right quality to reduce imports and increase self-sufficiency. We will continue to work to have a high proportion of Norwegian agriculture and to use Norwegian resources efficiently. Then I fully agree with the representative Pollestad, who says that one of the most important things is both using the resources and protecting the cultivated land we have, because we have little of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e339	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e344	The crucial thing about the proposal – the red-green consensus – that lies here is to have a governance target that will give us a more sustainable and balanced overall development of policy. The entries from the government parties have a wide range of technicalities and explanations as to why we should not go in the sustainable direction we outline. If we are to take this all the way down to the basic level, policy must now be set on a better course. Take an example from my home country: Right near Oslo, there is a municipality called South Odal, which is one of the areas in Norway where grain can be produced. A farmer who then wanted to strengthen and renew the infrastructure was then informed from Innovation Norway that meat production was a priority. I would like to ask the Minister of Agriculture a question: can we now expect it to be corrected in that kind of bias?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e351	If the representative looks at this year's agricultural agreement, it was about using resources properly to actually produce cereals where they are suitable for cereals. Then we have to change and use the tool so that we can turn around and use our resources correctly. Where it is suitable for cereal production, we must give priority to this, because we are far from self-sufficient in cereals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e356	In recent years, grain areas have been reduced by as much as 68 000 decires, which is decreasing in all counties. This applies, for example: Vestfold, Hedmark and Akershus – good grain areas. That is why, when dealing with agriculture, I challenged the Minister of Agriculture whether she could guarantee that at least next year we will see an increase in the grain area. Here it is not possible to explain that there will be negotiations, because I know that the industry will also be able to agree. That is why I have to ask the question when we deal with this matter: will the Minister of Agriculture, when she returns to the Stortinget in spring 2020, guarantee that this scheme will increase the grain area in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e361	As a government council, I can never guarantee anything, but what I can say is that I want to give priority to producing cereals in areas that are suitable for cereals. In addition, as the Council of State, I am extremely concerned about facilitating earnings for those who are involved in cereals, so that they do not end up producing cereals, which have been reduced over time. It has to be for Norwegian farmers to produce cereals, and then one has to fix it. There are reasons why production has fallen. That is why the instrument, the price and the arrangements for it must be taken into account, and that is what we are doing in the agricultural negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e366	The proposals of the red-green parties carry the promise of a policy that puts biodiversity high on the need to have grazing animals in the districts, which also has the effect of strengthening cereal and vegetable production where possible. The representative, Mr Reiten, criticised some of the ideas that we are making here, but I would like to challenge the Minister of Agriculture: Does the Minister of Agriculture agree with the red-green thinking that it will ensure biodiversity better than today's agricultural policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e371	The representative withdraws the representative's reply, I would like to comment on it. As I see it, the representative of Reiten is that we are going to go down on milk production, which will lead to that in District Norway it will be demanding for very many to maintain grass production where it is suitable for it. That's what I realized he said. Just that bit the government is concerned about, and I, as Minister of Agriculture, am concerned about it. That is why we have put in more support for grass production and the use of pasture where it is suitable, and at the same time channelled grain production where it is suitable – precisely because we believe in biodiversity. We believe in agriculture throughout the country, and we want to align the instrument after that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e378	It becomes a bit easy to blame for rice, nuts and sugar. That's why we don't get to 100 pst. We have proposed 50 pst. A number of different measures, such as soil protection, increased cereal production, etc., are needed. We also need to strengthen protein production in Norway. There's work going on in that area, we know that. During the hearing, there was a recording from Norsk Poultry, which said that one had to evaluate the use of meat-and-bone meal again, if that proposal was still professional. Then I wonder, is this something that the department assesses, or is it an entirely out of date matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e385	It's an interesting thought, because there's a lot of protein in meat bones, and it's a product that's been used in the past with good effect. At the same time, I think that before I answer yes to that, I'll go in and assess a lot of other things around it. We know that the world has become much smaller. It also means that there may be reasons not to do this, for example. for both animal welfare and animal diseases, etc. So here we have to have more thoughts in our head at the same time. That is why I will take what the representative has said and assess it. But I won't say yes to it over the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e392	Norway has the lowest degree of maritime supply in Europe compared to countries with which we can compare. The former government said that one should have no clear definition of the degree of maritime supply other than that one should not take into account imports of cereals and soya into domestic animals. It's a historyless point of view, and it's a wrong point of view. After all, it is the country’s plant production that determines the degree of maritime supply of agricultural food. Power-feed consumption is increasing strongly and grain production is not increasing. In 2001, the electricity consumption was 1630 million. kg, in 2018 it was 2 041 million. kilograms, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, It shows the monitoring of the results for the implementation of the agricultural policy carried out in June 2019 as the agricultural budget item. My question is: does the Council agree that the degree of maritime supply of agricultural food falls when imports of cereals and soya into livestock are increasing?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e402	One can add different values to the degree of self-sufficiency and how one rains this, but I'm busy using Norwegian feed products just to reduce imports, both because I think it's climate-friendly, and that I also think it's the right use of Norwegian resources. Then I want to say: If one goes to the level of self-sufficiency and looks at it, I know that in 2015, 2016 and 2017 the level of self-sufficiency was higher than in 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013. For this reason, it is quite difficult to say that it is only to take action, because it is a matter of many things to achieve a higher level of self-sufficiency. But I am extremely concerned that we will work together for a higher level of self-sufficiency.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e409	I noticed that the Council of State said she was concerned about increasing the level of self-sufficiency, trying to use the land and using the land we have, etc. I also know that the Council of State is personally concerned about this, and I know that the Christian People's Party is concerned about it. But there is something about the intentions and the actual policies that are being pursued here, which are important to come up with. For politics, we are moving in a completely different direction, where we are actually making ourselves more dependent on imports at a time when we were going to turn this around, even if the Stortinges are collusive, everyone sitting here, represents a party that has voted to increase the self-sufficiency rate in Norway, that we are going to use more Norwegian resources in the future. Nevertheless, the policy, the everyday policy, is moving in a different direction. The question then is: is agriculture policy out of political control, or is this actually a wild policy from the government party?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e416	Then I just want to repeat the level of self-sufficiency in 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013 up to 2015, 2016 and 2017. It was higher in 2015, 2016 and 2017 than in 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013. So you're talking about the wrong path, I think it's kind of special. I also want to remember the imports. Indeed, the increase in imports was higher in 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013 than it has been under this government. In particular, beef and veal has not increased imports. Also in the context of Mercosur negotiations one can see that the quotas have not increased. That's why I think we should be fair in the use of numbers. But when it's said: No matter who's been in government, and who's in government, as a government council, I'm committed to increasing Norwegian self-sufficiency and using Norwegian resources because I think it's right for the farmers, it's right for business, it's right for the inhabitants, and it's right for the climate, and then it's right for the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e425	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e432	One of the most important things we can do for ourselves, for nature and climate, for jobs and housing and for international security is to produce our own food. I believe that we need to increase the level of self-sufficiency to meet the challenges of the future. I am actually quite shocked when the representative Ebbesen from the Right said straight away that readiness has nothing to do with the import of food, and thinks it is too easy to say. I wonder whether the Minister of Agriculture of the Christian People's Party agrees with that description, whether that is the government's position. I believe that self-sufficiency and the import of food have everything to do with readiness, and it is actually quite simple: in Norway today we are dependent on importing food. If we get into a situation where it's not possible to import, we'll lack food that we need. It may be due to trade barriers, or it may be caused by droughts or natural disasters in countries from which we import and which make them need the food themselves. It is well documented that several cases of crop failure in the world have given rise to large price increases for goods that we rely on in Norway. Export bans, hamstering or speculation can then undermine the market and we want to lack food. It will affect our security of supply. In crisis, all countries will feed their own people before they sell food that they themselves need. You can't eat money, as you know. Without food, man survives about 40 days, so if the country that sells food to us comes in a situation where they need it themselves, we hardly get that food. For a rich country such as Norway, with natural assumptions for producing food throughout the country, it is also very unsolvable to rely on imports from countries that may have food shortages or that have to chop rainforests to produce the same food. Our food must come mainly from Norwegian plant production, and I think it is a great pity that the government, with the Right Party and the Advance Party, has taken us in the wrong direction with its one-sided emphasis on farm size. It does not contribute to the whole country being used for food production, and to the exploitation of each soil patch. It also helps Norway to grow again. They have also centralised services on which farmers depend in order to live around the country. There are people and families who need a good service where they live if we are to make use of food resources throughout Norway. Last but not least, it would have been much easier to increase the level of self-sufficiency if the government parties would recognise that this has something to do with readiness.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e443	Thanks for the food, is a common statement in Norway. We thank Mother, Father, the host, the cook for the food with the greatest of course. Sometimes we also realize that even though the food is purchased in the store, it is also produced a place. The food is produced by a farmer on a farm, and sometimes we also send a grateful thought to the people who run the land. Behind our farm food are thousands of farmers who sow, harvest and raise the animals. Meat, milk, eggs, cereals, fruit, greens and berries are tempting raw materials that saturate and give good experiences around a table. Give the farmer a pat on the shoulder, and thank you for the work he or she does, so it sounds. The representative Ebbesen has a surprising defensive attitude towards self-sufficiency. We're going to cut into our own food production because 2 pst. have become vegans? Should we only accept 40 pst. the self-sufficiency of agricultural food and the lowest degree of self-sufficiency in Europe for that reason? No, food will also be important in the future. The Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness believes that the Nordics should have a warehouse with the most important in order to be able to handle themselves for 72 hours in the event of a crisis. Of course, this list says that we have to make sure to have food, water, light, heat and the most elementary available. Three days without food will make any crisis bigger. But what do we do about the crisis for three weeks or three years? What does security mean to get food for a society in a longer perspective than three days? Extremism, natural disasters, terror, technical problems, war and sabotage are factors that we must think can arise, even though the main objective is to prevent such a thing from occurring. Increased preparedness in the population is a natural part of the work of modern total defence. Greater emphasis on preparedness should also lead to greater emphasis on self-sufficiency. Every country has the right and the duty to feed its own population. The production of food cannot only be switched on and off. Necessary food preparedness requires continuous production, and in Norway our self-sufficiency is shamefully low. Large parts of Norway are suitable for the production of grass, but we only have 3 pst. cultivated area in our country. In Northern Ireland, where I come from, the percent area grown is less than 1.5 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e452	16 December 2019 can be a historic day, when the Stortinget minority, the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV, gather on a concrete content for the agricultural social mission – 60 pst. by the end of 2026. So after a possible government change in 2021, we have five years to implement this. Food supply is a major policy. The French revolution was triggered in 1789, when a bread cost 80 pst. of the day-to-day wages of a worker. The crisis settlement between the Workers' Party and the Bonde Party in the spring of 1935 was rooted in the fight against economic liberalism, which resulted in the import of cheap cereals and the associated low seas supply of cereals. Some of the characteristics of the establishment of the EEC after the Second World War were a common agricultural policy to avoid Europe becoming a hunger area again. In 1975, we received the escalating decision on incomes in Norwegian agriculture. In the extension of the oil crisis in 1974, we were given the basis for the green wave that led to the investment in agriculture and increased maritime supply of food and larger agricultural land. In recent times, for example, we know the Arab Spring in 2011 and the fall of the Sudan dictator in 2019, which was triggered by increased food prices. Today we have a climate crisis. Part of the solution is to bet on the production and processing of renewable carbon through photosynthesis. This proposal for a decision is therefore part of a large whole – international and national, historical and present. The discussion on the social tasks of agriculture is not raised in Stortinget as a result of the involvement of agricultural organisations. Now it's just that the organizations have largely invented the agricultural policy that the Stortinget has formulated, clearly or indistinctly. The result is an increasing decline in the fulfilment of the societal mission. When I have been involved in taking the initiative in this proposal for a decision, it is in order to create a solid, concrete platform for agricultural policy in the future after the 2021 elections, an alliance between urban and rural peoples. I see this as my professional-political duty after working on these questions from my participation in Hitra in August 1975. Unfortunately, the proposal is not as popular in all agricultural circles, but it is absolutely necessary to lay the foundations for a broad alliance of conscious consumers who require safe food, healthy food and sufficient food, and farmers who work to deliver the farm in a better condition, who work to obtain crops — grow on farm and in society. It is the Grand Duchy's duty to review the objectives and tasks that agriculture has to fulfil for society. We don't have an agricultural policy for farmers, but to solve a social mission. It's Storting's job to define the societal mission. It cannot be left to others. The agricultural sector cannot, will not and shall not define its scope and task, it is the task of this House and it must be decided. The decision points forward and will create enthusiasm and basis for mobilization for a new red-green government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e465	Food production on Norwegian resources is an important part of preparedness. Dumping of the price of Norwegian quality food at the shops, minimum wage growth and continued fall in the number of farms with active inward and outward operations are serious. The centre party believes that there is a need for a stepping-up plan for safe food production on Norwegian resources. It must take over a troubled world, climate change and other risks that make us vulnerable. Self-sufficiency helps to secure the country and its inhabitants against external threats. The degree of self-sufficiency of Norwegian agricultural products should be increased to 50 pst. by the end of 2026. This year’s drought caused a shortage of Norwegian seed for this year’s cereal season and shows how vulnerable we are. The centre party believes that larger seed stocks and the establishment of food grain stocks are needed. We need climate funds with funds, transport support and irrigation to tackle more unstable weather. Furthermore, the country is screaming for broadband, risk capital and clear prioritisation of renewable and short-term raw materials and energy sources. Agriculture itself proposed a number of climate adaptations, without the government wanting to address all of them. The Swedish Defence Research Institute is also aware that food supply is important. Competence is also a prerequisite for self-sufficiency, but the challenges are many. Natural and adultnagronomists have good numbers of applicants, but funding is not good enough. Structural reform in higher education weakens agricultural education, and plant science has too few applicants. Nibio, Nofima, NMBU and other research environments are important. Nevertheless, the government is putting down the Nibio onion, which is the largest in plant research throughout the country. The wheat revolution, with the Ås environment at its head, shows that it is possible to go from importing 100 pst. Of all the maths that we're 70 pst. self-sufficiency in the years in which they are good wheat crops. Now the grain areas are going down and the channelling is going wrong. Norwegian food production needs to be strengthened so that we can produce more food in Norway for a growing population and maintain cultural landscapes and jobs throughout the country. A varied use structure, well-functioning market organisations and good profitability development are necessary to further develop one of the world's cleanest and most environmentally friendly agriculture. There is a great need for increased food production globally. In Norway, we produce less than half of the food we eat, and the population is increasing. The representative riding pessimism in milk production is part of the problem. If the drain based on imported protein is the only thing that is assessed for quality, economics and prospects, it looks dark. We need to have greater ambitions. We have to put the whole country into action.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e480	Perhaps increased sea retention rates are the simplest, most important and fastest grip we can take to set the framework for a positive development for Norwegian agriculture. This is nothing new, it's an old ideal goal, like, among other things. Mr Lundteg mentioned. I am such a mature man that I experienced the best Berge Furre, former SV manager and head of the Agriculture Committee in the 1970s. He just drove on that point – and with a good new Norseness – that you had to get up the sea level. All those who have been involved in Norwegian districts, small and Norwegian outreach have been involved in this for a generation or two. For Norwegian agriculture, which is under pressure from many teams, increased targets for Norwegian maritime supply and minor imports of power-feed are incredibly important. According to researchers from the Norwegian Institute of Bioeconomy, about 300 million feed units were put into service in 2018, while the grazing potential is about 800 million units. The ruminants should use grass resources where we cannot grow grain and green. It has been said quite many times here from the pulpit already. We should produce more human food on the 90 pst. of the area cultivated by Norway used for animal feed. If we had turned the system like this, the import of feed elements would have been greatly reduced. The use of power feed in Norwegian milk production has increased dramatically: 80 pst. the increase in drift has occurred with increased use of power feed. Harald Volden, a rough-forage researcher who has written many articles on feeding, roughage, feed use, climate and sustainability, warns the agricultural industry of an article in September. He says that: ‘If we are to succeed in caring for our grasslands, we must focus on the following: 1) Reduction in milk yield of 500 kg per cow/year [[...]] 3) Reduce roughage costs’. These are important points. He claims that we do not lack knowledge, but we do not or do not have the will to use knowledge. There are good words from all teams, including the government, among other things. in the Granavolden platform – there shall be ‘enterprise structures based on local soil, grazing, forest and land use’ in the industry. In addition, I would like to remind you of some points that we need to raise in order to produce Norwegian agriculture in a long-term and real sustainable perspective. I will come back to that in an interpellation debate quite shortly after today, and then I hope very many other representatives can attend.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e504	The year of the drought was no exception – one cannot see it as an exception in Norwegian agricultural policy. It can quickly become part of the normal that we get years of too much water, too little water or other natural phenomena as part of the climate crisis we're in the middle of. So we have to have an agricultural policy that takes the height of that kind of case. During the drought, we saw that it exploded in imports of feed from abroad, simply because one had no roughage resources available as a reserve in Norway, so one had to pick it up from other countries. Fortunately, there were other countries that had something to do with it, but it can't be based on the time that comes. The self-sufficiency rate that the drought year showed us is something we must take on in Norwegian agricultural policy in the future. We also see that with our trade agreements with the EU through the EEA – Article 19 and Protocol 3, which are the articles where this is mentioned, there has been an explosive increase in imports via the EU. It has been a triple since 2012. The last agreement, from 2018, to which SV and several others were very critical and opposed, showed that one continued duty-free imports of agricultural products into Norway. The interesting thing is that according to the EEA Agreement, liberalisation between Norway and, in this case, the EU will take place on a mutually beneficial basis, but what we see is that EU imports are increasing much, much more in actual terms than our exports to the EU. So it's not a mutual base. As researcher Veggeland said, liberalisation has not taken place on a mutually beneficial basis. Similarly, the EEA Agreement should not be merely a liberalisation that is mutually beneficial to both parties. He must also take agricultural policy as his starting point for each country. And what is the adoption of agricultural policy? Yes, he has decided to increase the level of self-sufficiency. There should be no increased imports - rather the reverse. We need to be more able to feed people, both what we directly take up, and what we import from ingredients into food. We look at the top list of the farms with cows producing the most milk, see that the feed part is cloudy – far above – and the grazing part is very low. I still do not have operational targets from the government party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e517	One of the most important things we have to do here in the Storting and National Assembly is to make sure people are safe. If people are to be safe, it's obvious that you need food. It's very happy with the policy that's going to be pursued by a red-green electorate in 2021, if we succeed, because it lays down a clear principle that food and food policy are to serve the broad range of people's interests. Let me draw three conclusions and improvements to the food policy that will be the result of the proposals we are making on the red-green side today. The first point is the proposal that takes as its starting point the production of plants, either to people directly like cereals and vegetables or plants for animals as feed or via grazing, which is the aim of what we are going to deliver through the policy. So you're going to go away from Sylvi Listhaug's one-sided focus on the maximum number of kilograms of meat to align with how we're going to produce. The second thing that will come as an improvement with the red-green proposal is a better distribution in the country. According to Sylvi Listhaug's policy, a freight owner like Carl Otto Løvenskiold has received many millions of dollars in state aid. We will no longer see this kind of use of money, because we want to use the funds specifically to strengthen the security of the people of Norway – the society that will be left for the policy we are pursuing. Another clear improvement is that if there's a crisis or a war, we'll assume what is realistic in the real world. What I am concerned about is the opinion of the representative, Mr Reten, that we cannot improve, for example. the production of milk on the basis of the resources available to us. Because if we assume that the only way we can have milk production in Norway is to import feed, we have already given up a very important tool in a crisis situation. It's going to be the same as if defence policy were based on having a large number of ammunition imports as the crisis breaks out. There is no one who bases a defence policy in that way, nor can we base food security in that way. As I have discussed earlier, this will obviously lead to a strong focus on reinforced grain production in Norway, so that new generations can get it as work.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e531	This is a good proposal, which can clearly show the direction of Norwegian food production and which can strengthen the use of our pastures. We are forced to change the development of food production. We have over time been given a removal of the connection between the area and production. This was strongly enhanced in the agricultural sector in 2014 when major changes were made to the overall industry. It shows that today. We have the paradox that we have too much production of some food, while at the same time reducing the level of self-sufficiency. We disconnect land and production, and we stimulate economies of scale, which shifts production from districts to more central strips. We move the production from pasture and land to more land use. We have land in use at the cost of grain production. I heard the post of the representative Terje Breivik from the Left here today, and the only thing missing was: I am in favour of this proposal. His whole post was an unbelievably good defense that this is it important to get to. He wanted more small-scale production. He wanted more productive production. Yes, that's what we want, we've done this. Then there's something that's not right. The representative of the Reiten problemis that to have a more Norwegian production and smaller imports of feed, specific milk production in the districts will be affected. It was used as arguments for these changes for many years. But what's happening today? They pay dearly to rent the allowance, they're tired of getting hold of the land. It'll be a challenge, but then one has to stimulate them so that one can do this. There are many in the districts who are capable of producing good roughage, and are able to ventilate it. Then one has to do it. It is not said that the highest possible performance is what causes the farmer to resume his work. What happened while we did this? We've reduced production out there. We've gathered him on a few and larger gardens, which can't use the pasture. We see that when used in clusters, it reduces the use of pasture and, in particular, the land area. Therefore, we are forced to address this issue. It is disappointing that the Christian People's Party, which was with us and thought this was a good thing, now no longer sees that this is entirely decisive to get another agricultural policy forward. We strengthen Norwegian food production.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e544	When it comes to food production and increasing the degree of maritime supply, I notice in the debate the same thing I notice in other areas, i.e. saying one thing and doing something else. It's like oil production for climate, it's cut too hard to help them, and here, in a way, everyone agrees on the goal, but you do the opposite of what you say, and then you come further and further from that goal all the time. Social security is the basis of people's security. It's about food, but it's also about the knowledge about how to produce food. It's important that a proportion of the population know something about it, because it's not just learning this from a book. This is not technical production. This is about the understanding of nature and how to produce along with it. Then it's about keeping the food soil in claim, not building it down and not letting it grow again. We cannot have a government that, under Sylvi Listhaug, at least, went to Brussels and negotiated and let it shine through that one would like to lose. That's where you lose. And you did. Without customs protection, Norwegian agriculture loses. It's one of the posts that has to be there. The second is that we can never be the biggest and cheapest, but we can be the safest and environmentally friendly, and there the government has unfortunately made a very big mistake. They have doubled the quota ceiling, removed the ceiling on the animal subsidy and on the area grant, and they have moved money from the large to the small ones. Then there will be overproduction, and the large ones will become more and more dependent on subsidies. It is paradoxical to say that the subsidy to Norwegian agriculture should be reduced. No, you make it more and more vulnerable, and the bigger you get, the more vulnerable you become, and its customers become. Energy accounts and climate accounts do not rise, and they must in no way, because there are no vegetarians and vegans threatening Norwegian agriculture. They like to eat agricultural production, they do. What could threaten this is that the climate accounts for, for example, Farming of livestock is poor because we import too much soya from abroad, use too little of our roughage resources and have a pressure on milk production that makes it absolutely necessary. These are the elements we have to tackle and change, with combikua and more coarse fodder production. And then finally, we have to take care of the little ones. The small scale has always been the spearhead of some of the most important changes in Norwegian agriculture over time, and they will be important on the day we need all the food seafood – and we need more than what we produce today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e557	Discussing the degree of self-sufficiency, which Stortinget is now invited to do, is perhaps one of the most meaningful debates we have. Those who somehow try to minimize the theme — in view of the last ten years, in the case of both drought, extreme rainfall and floods — are minimizing the wrong theme. This is quite serious, and it is of course about our safety and our ability to produce agricultural products that the population is asking for. It's a very important topic, and then I think it's a little trifling, like that. The representative of Ebbesen chooses to do so. It seems to me that it is the old-fashioned Right who again falls into the Storting and starts talking about agricultural policy as at the time when they really had no other opinion about agricultural policy than that they should cut and centralize food production. It has gradually evolved positively in recent years because the Christian People's Party has been in constructive opposition. There has been a majority in the United Kingdom for a policy other than that which the government would pursue. Now the Christian People's Party has entered the blue heat, and then there's no longer a majority in the Great Britain to push the government. Therefore, it is unusually important that the Christian People's Party chooses to pressure itself into its own government. A few examples of that: now there are three suggestions. I can understand that proposal No. 3 p.m., 50 p.m. self-sufficiency, corrected for imports of feed, is demanding, but the other two proposals should be in the heart of the Christian People's Party, and they should be able to vote in favour of them. The fact that a stepping-up plan and the presentation to Stortinget of a thorough risk and vulnerability analysis of Norwegian security of supply should be excellent. I do not understand that it is not a total accumulation that is in favour of at least the proposals No. 1 and 2 today – completely incomprehensible. It would be important knowledge for the Storting to get and important discussions for the Storing to take. There is no doubt that incorrect disposals have been made in recent years. The increase in milk quotas is an example of this. That should never have been done, because when we're going to pull down, we're going to end up with one thing, and that's to let important agricultural land go out of production, because that's the marginal uses that are going to suffer from it. That's why it's also important, I think, to discuss just 50 pst. with that as a starting point. We have to use the grassland we have, we have to be able to get more quality in roughage than we can do now, and we have to dry up a discussion about how cheap or expensive it is to import power feed into this country. For it is not Norwegian agricultural policy to produce meat in stainless steel poultry based on imported feed.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e566	In the change of line with the Council of State, the representative Sandtrøen asserted that the government parties resort to technicalities in order not to vote for the proposals. I would like to return that claim and say that the draft representative here today does not take sufficient account of technicalities. There are two main challenges that lie there if you are to achieve the ambitious goals of self-sufficiency and self-sufficiency that we are talking about here. Firstly, correcting for imports of feed raw materials means that one has to find substitutes, especially for the protein that we import today. The representative of Nils T. Bjørke is trying to represent it as if we in the Christian People's Party are not in order to increase the crude feed rate. Yes, of course we do. We're working together to get the most of our roughage into use, but it'll only take us a while. We can never replace the protein we import today with roughage. I hope we all agree that the income target for agriculture is still fixed. Norwegian milk producers must continue to develop income at least in line with others in society. Then the Centre Party and the other proposers must give us an answer as to how we can achieve the self-sufficiency goal if we are not to use imported protein. It's just 1 pst. of the area in Norway suitable for plant production. If we are to grow more protein-rich crops, it has to go beyond cereal production. The second main challenge that lies there, if we are to achieve the objective of the proposal, is that we have to grow more cereals. Self-sufficiency is inextricably linked to increased cereal production, as it is where the calories lie. In order for us to get to that, we have to have intentional. The size may not require Norwegian cereal farmers to grow more cereals or to increase the grain area. Incentives have to, and the instinct we're talking about then, are increasing grain prices. We are thus concerned with what is referred to as the terror balance in Norwegian agricultural policy. Should the cereal price be raised as an incentive for increased cereal production, the price reduction must also be increased so that the feed does not become too expensive. There are very sensitive issues, which have always been added to the agricultural negotiations in Norway, where the parties meet to decide on such difficult balances. There's nothing the Storting can decide. This must also be answered by the proposers: how is it to be solved?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e577	As a ungrateful farmer, I want to take the floor in this matter, because I am engaged in what is happening. There are some things in this debate where I think you should go a little bit more in yourself. One is the threat picture – what can happen? I think bringing forward the Napoleonic wars or other world wars is quite out of date in this case, because we live in a completely different world. There are completely different conflicts, there are much more Chernobyl, climate disasters, etc. which is the problem. The second is the consumption pattern. Norway has a small agricultural area. We have 10 million decaves of cultivated land, but we have 140 million decaves of grazing land. In that setting, it's very strange that you're attacking red meat. If you're going to have a vision that we're now going to be more self-sufficient using the grasslands, it has to be through a cow or sheep. In fact, it is important to have a different relationship with red meat among consumers. The second is that the grain production we have is limited to maybe one third of our area. The third thing that I think you should take in a little bit is the labour force situation. Many of the developments we have seen in agriculture in Norway today are, first of all, driven by technological developments and, second, by the fact that farmers also want holidays and leisure time. They are no longer in the system, those who want to sacrifice their lives on a farm without holidays and leisure time, without the possibility of redemption. We have to add up to an agriculture that has in itself efficiency and is so large that it gives labour income to a family. It is important to keep it in focus also when talking about self-sufficiency. Finally, if you talk about crisis and food production, you cannot ignore the fact that Norway has fish resources or marine resources. In a crisis situation in which, contrary to assumption, marine resources are an important part of Norway, and they have been. Creating a self-sufficiency target without taking into account the amazing resources we have at sea seems quite meaningless.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e590	The representative Reiten is right that protein is important. It can also be challenging, but it's not impossible at all to get more protein. We have algae that can become important protein raw material in the future. And I think we also have to think about circular bioeconomy. We have seine fishing facilities and closed sea marshes that capture feed waste and fish dirt from the farming industry. Maybe we can use this sludge rationally. Nofima has shown that this waste is nutrient-rich and contains both a lot of protein and fat. The marine research institute has shown that insect larvae can exploit this waste. Some larvae are created to live in such sludge, nor do they accumulate undesirable substances or bacteria. Larver has the potential to become a protein and fat source for Norwegian livestock. I hope that the Minister of Agriculture will ensure that we have a sound level of knowledge and legislation adapted to exploit this valuable resource. In fact, I also agree with the representative Igstad, who indicated that the less cultivated area requires the more use of pasturage. But the state, at County State, writes on its websites that robber game is the main goal of Norwegian administration. Pasturage is just a goal. This misinterpretation of the predatory game agreement has led to an increasing number of areas becoming without grazing animals. Sheep farming is either laid down or pastured. Meat that should have been produced on grass is also produced more and more from power feed. So is the reindeer. Robbery policy means that more and more of the reindeer meat that should have been produced on land are produced from power feed. So we're replacing the degree of marine supply based on outland to imports of feed raw materials. Our goal is that the degree of maritime supply should be 50 pst. In such a situation, I actually think it is unforgivable by the government to ban the cultivation of ants without even evidence that it has climatic benefits. This is a purely land-use protection that affects individual farmers and the ability to grow food hard. We're still going to be able to build a road, but this shows how low-priority food production has become.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e609	This is an important debate; I fully agree with the Aasland representative. Nor is it a question of raising the level of self-sufficiency. I think that's what all the parties in this room have experienced when they've been in government, or when they're now in opposition. Therefore, we work regularly to facilitate Norwegian farmers to produce as much as possible of the food we consumers use. I am concerned about increasing self-sufficiency, and we are almost self-sufficient in meat. Think about the exposure out in the population and in our state channels when we have overproduction and things hanging on Norwegian stocks. Think about the commitment because we're throwing too much, and because we've produced too much. It's hard to have enough meat, enough eggs, enough milk and enough of some rough vegetables. That's why we prioritised this year's agricultural settlement saying that we have to turn it around a little bit, because this also didn't give us any good reputation, and facilitate more production of vegetables that we actually don't produce and are not self-sufficient in, like cereals, fruit and berries. In addition, I think it is important to work with climate adaptation for agriculture, because there is no doubt that it is a challenge when we get summers like last year. Then it's important that we have cereals and develop seed stocks that enable us to meet the new climate challenges and that we can get a different crop. I think these things are as important as at the same time trying to find products that can help increase the production of proteins, so we don't have to import soya from abroad, as we've done. It also takes time, but it's very important that we facilitate it. I think Karin Andersen said a little wrong, because she said we're moving from the small to the large – we've moved from the large to the small ones in the farm. We've just moved money to small and medium-sized uses because it's important that we actually have an agriculture all over the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e620	Fish are important and good food, but we have to recognize the contexts. Today we eat approx. 1.7 pst. Of the calories as fish, while we eat 13 pst. of the calories as meat. So when we have a 50 pst sea level measure, we're going to cover another 50 pst, and that shows the fish's role in such a crisis situation, as well as what we've now proposed. We have to see the constraints. I know people who have experience with herring and potato, and it also has its sides, without going into it. The possibilities for implementing the decision that we are now making from the opposition are as great as our ability to get an environmentally friendly car park. Why? Well, because we have a national agricultural market. In the national agricultural market, however, there is one major challenge: the balance between production and consumption. Cheap imports of feed for our animals have always been a problem in Norwegian agriculture. This leads to a decline in the level of maritime supply and also to a decline in profitability due to overproduction. It has to take this hall strongly over it. In 1975 we received a nutrition note about what was healthy to eat – St.meld. No 32 for 1975–1976 – and we got a big message on how to produce what was healthy to eat – St.meld. No 14 for 1976-77. That is the challenge today too. And it's incredibly important that we go from maybe having three meatcakes and one potato to eating one meatcake and three potatoes. It's possible to have a good night's sleep in the diet. Only that will strengthen our maritime supply level, and we have the opportunity. The Working Party, the Centre Party and SV have submitted an important note: ‘It is necessary to facilitate the profitability of producing with a benefit adapted to Norwegian natural resources and areas, thus overall providing higher self-sufficiency and increased food security.’ [[...]] It's like it should have been taken from what Professor Harald Volden writes — the leading scientist who sees the context, both in the farmer's business economy, in the social economy and in nutrition. We're talking about profitability. It must be profitable to grow good roughage, as the representative Bjørke said. It will be if the roughage becomes a lot of value, and there is a clear correlation between the value of the roughage and the price of the forage. And to the representative, Reiten: one does not need to use a price write-down for cereals in power-feed production more than is necessary to ensure the channelling policy. In addition, subsidisation of the feed is not necessary in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e638	The representative of Nils Kristen Sandtrøen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e643	The representative Reiten wonders how to increase cereal production in practice. There's more answers to that, here I'm going to take three. Firstly, it must be possible to transport the grain from the second best areas to the mill. We can stimulate this for political reasons. Secondly, it must be profitable to use that area for cereals. We can stimulate that politically. Thirdly, new generations must have the opportunity to invest in the infrastructure they need. We can control that politically. Here, there are three concrete actions that lie outside the scope of the representative, Mr Reiten, who tried to isolate them for a debate on price only. Then the representative Igstad insisted that he believes that this is not the time for unforeseen events. You can never know that. Gunnar Knudsen has a legendary quotation: Currently, the political sky is politically discrete to a degree that has not been the case for many years. He said that in February 1914. In June 1914 the shootings in Sarajevo began, and that same year World War I began.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e653	If we are to take increased food supply on Norwegian resources and a good total defence in earnest, we must start by setting clear targets. This is important for all those working with, in and around agriculture and for priorities in the long term. As the Council of State said, change takes time. If management and investment are to move in the right direction, the objective must be clear. The size has been clear in the past about self-sufficiency, so why can't we set a concrete goal? When it comes to concrete actions, all the representatives of the Centre Party have been involved in several. Previous speakers also highlighted the possibility of cereal production. At the same time, right-wing representatives are asking for a viable life for farmers in the future. That is precisely when economics and welfare systems are crucial. The Liberal Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has not defyed the liberalisation of the Advance Party in the past years, but fortunately the Christian People's Party has now got a finger in the game. Farmers and self-employed people must have good arrangements. The problem is it's just that it's hard to recruit many enough and good enough replacements. Independent technological developments must, of course, include professional environments and communities that can benefit farmers on a full-time basis, whether they are vacations or leisure time. The representative Riding demand protein sources. The answer, which has been discussed by many, is partly better roughage and increased grazing. We've been up to this by the Center Party in many other proposals and contexts. In addition, I would recommend the representative to update on research activity. Even forests and cellulose may benefit from the right ammonia mixture. Here it shouldn't be on the ambitions of Stortinget's side, you ask me. Here, we must actually dry out putting a stake for the future and telling potential farmers that there are opportunities, that we have ambitions, and that it should be with Norwegian resources, because we want jobs, turnover and value creation to be within our borders. It is important for industry, it is important for consumers, and it is important for safe Norwegian food production.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e662	The ride was up, and it sounded most like one had asked for 100 pst. Norwegian, then I heard how he challenged to lower the protein imports. It's clear that it's challenging, there's no doubt, that's why we put ourselves at 50 pst., because one actually has to do something. It's hanging in the middle of nowhere. When the Minister of Agriculture also said that we have too much production of some products, it is precisely because one has built up a production where it has paid so much to grow bigger and bigger, and where one has torn it free from the land. Therefore, one must think: how does a product produce? If you produce one on your own resources, it won't be too much. But I feel -- I don't think it applies to the Christian People's Party -- that parts of the government in 2014 did this deliberately to create market imbalances, and that means that one has got these challenges. No, we're not going to adopt the feed price, and I think there are as many arguments about the feed price as there are representatives here. But the Agricultural Agreement Institute needs a clear signal from Stortinget on the direction. I myself have a seat and negotiate a lot there, so I know a little about it. It is important that we actually say something about the direction – that we should increase production. Then it's the ones who are right to find out what grip they're going to take. But they need to be clear on how to do this, so we have to be able to raise it. The Minister of Agriculture was concerned that she had moved from large to small. Yeah, maybe a little bit this year. There are small repairs after 2014. But if one looked from 2013 until today, the big grips that were done, it would be a step in the right direction if one had said it was wrong, it would have to fix it. There's no doubt that a lot of people would give up at the time, or that they would bet and build so much that they didn't care about what they were going to do. The representative, Mr. Igstad, was in this with the farmers wanting to have a spare time and arrange working hours. I see many examples today that they have had such a large production and that they have an area that is not adapted to such a large production, which makes them run by themselves all the way to be able to figure this out. It is possible to be effective within an operating building, but one must create operational buildings that are adapted to the area one has, not the other, which unfortunately has been done in some cases. Many farmers want it themselves, but the jam has also said clearly that you should receive support, you must build. We've been thinking about economics when it's about the building, but we haven't thought about economics when it's about to run the land at the same time, especially if you're going to run the land well and raise the output. So we need these proposals now, we need to get this confirmed, so the Agricultural Agreement Institute has something to do when negotiating ahead. Not least should the Christian People's Party be happy about this, so they also have something to join in government cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e673	I asked Bollestad a question instead that she did not answer in her post, so I hope she can sign up for a new post. I asked about Ebbesen's statements, where she said that the import of food had nothing to do with readiness, and stated that it was almost a bit sought by the Central Party to put food supply in the context of preparedness. She said it would be too easy to say. I asked Bollestad about the council and the government shares that view. Is it the government's view that preparedness has nothing to do with food supply or self-sufficiency? This year, among other things, Norwegian Agricultural Cooperation stated that there is now a likelihood of a failure in Norwegian food supply and that it has been mistrusted to rely blindly on international trade in any event in the event of a crisis. For the Right and Advance Party, it seems that spending time on analyses and plans on food preparedness has been wasted on resource use. So I wonder whether the Christian People's Party, which has the Council of State, and the government parties will recognise the danger of food shortages, whether the government shares the view of Norwegian Agricultural Cooperation on it, or whether the Christian People's Party, which has the Council of State, will also reject the fact that this is about preparedness.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e680	The representative Steinar Reiten has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e685	I want to finish the way I started, by giving tribute to the Center Party and, moreover, to the other opposition parties for this debate to be raised. These are important issues. At the same time, I feel absolutely sure that the Minister of Agriculture and Food every day at work has, as one of his priorities, the aim of increasing the level of self-sufficiency as much as possible. I have tried in my posts to draw up some key issues in order to achieve the goal – which we have to deal with, and which the red-greens had to deal with when they were in government, and if they would eventually be in government again in the future. But we work together to achieve the goal of maximising the self-sufficiency of Norwegian food produced on Norwegian resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e692	Like the representative Reiten, I also believe that every day the Minister of Agriculture goes to work and wants to work to increase the level of self-sufficiency based on Norwegian resources, but I am not quite sure if the government will ultimately give priority to it, and that is quite different. I share a lot of what the Minister of Agriculture said in his speech. The achievement of a self-sufficiency rate of 50 pst, corrected for the feed fractions, is not a quick fix. Mercury usually resolves, but if we want to do something more, it is the policy that becomes an important instrument, and then it is important to base the right priorities. I hope that the Christian People's Party – and the government – think twice before voting tonight, precisely because, in my opinion, the proposals are reasonably balanced and sensible. We recognise that proposal No. 3, if 50 p.m., is demanding, but we believe that Norwegian food production and Norwegian self-sufficiency in agricultural products should be a demanding goal, because we are afraid that it will go in the other direction. I think the Minister of Agriculture is the same. But I am – regardless of proposal No. 3 today – amazed by, as I said in my first post, that not the government parties, and not least the Minister of Agriculture, use his authority to tell the government parties that it makes sense to raise issues related to both this with the escalation plan for safe food production on Norwegian resources and this with a thorough risk and vulnerability analysis, not least based on climate and geopolitical conditions that affect this. I'm amazed at that. Wouldn't it be wise to have such a discussion before the Storting? Wouldn't it benefit the whole of our discussions to see things a little wider? At that time, we had not been able to get statements like those Igstad drew up – and as far as others have been concerned – to get fish into the self-sufficiency level, which cannot, of course, be put into the self-sufficiency rate of agricultural products. Fish are hard to get in there. The Norwegian population may have to eat more fish in the future, and in such a way that Norwegian agricultural production is going down, but then it is like a change of diet and not as part of the thinking here in this room about the importance of fish or not. That is why I am amazed that the government parties are voting against the three proposals that have been promoted, and I am particularly surprised that a voter is voting against proposal No. 1 and 2. I think that debate had done very well in Stortinget, and I think it would also have been a good exercise for the government to get those perspectives in some of what might be our most important task, to secure the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e705	For the sake of order, the President makes it clear that there is no voting in Stortinget today, since the representative was in charge of it. The next speaker is Geir Pollestad, then Olav – no, Olaug Bollestad.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e712	A little, but perhaps big, difference there! I must say, after following the debate today, that I am very ardent about the commitment that has been on this matter from the opposition, and not least from the Central Party's representatives. It's a proposal that doesn't have an address for tomorrow's vote, but for the 2021 elections. We have to create an engagement around Norwegian agriculture and how we're going to build it on. It is my clear belief that there is a great deal of commitment to these issues in agriculture and in agriculture's organisations. I think there are some basic weaknesses with the relatively few posts that have been from the government party. The only thing is that they don't recognize and distance themselves from what these parties did in the spring of 2014. It was an experiment with centralization and structural drive that I think one should have taken a clear distance from if one is united in the goal one has seen. The next thing that's fundamentally inconsistency is the view of readiness, that is, what we should be prepared for, and how this preparedness should be organised. The debate that I hope will further trigger this proposal should not be a debate that puts power-consuming productions up against other productions; it should not be a debate that sets up central struts against the districts; it should not be a debate that sets up steel-springs against those who have been hit. This should be a debate on which a comprehensive agricultural policy in Norway should come out strengthened, as there are busy times for primary food producers. There's a discussion about climate, there's a discussion about animal protection, and fewer and fewer people have a relationship with food production. Then we must have a common agricultural project that also hits outside agriculture itself. So I'll warn you against making this a fish or meat discussion, because it's completely meaningless. Had it been for us to have 100 pst. supply of our energy needs in the form of agricultural products, yes, I would understand that, but here it is a proposal of at least 50 pst. self-sufficiency. Fish are also an important part of the preparedness, and I believe that the fishing industry and the agricultural industry, after all, have very much in common.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e727	I have received some questions, and I will try to answer them as best I can. It's used some history stories from the First and Second World Wars, and it's important to bear in mind that there have been challenges in history. But it is also the case that in 2017, the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness developed a ROS analysis precisely on the basis of self-sufficiency, which it is very important to take into account. What was found then — and that is two years ago and not far back to World War I or II — was that there were not high-risk events for Norwegian food supply, but a point that there were climate change that could actually lead to a change in the assumptions in the report in the longer term. It's a very important discussion, because, as the representative of Aasland said, there's no question, because there's a lot of things related. Yes, I believe that food and food supply are part of our preparedness. The government also believes that. But the question is, how is the big threat picture now? Then I have to deal with what the directorate has actually investigated in the ROS analysis. But I want to follow this, and that's why it was important for me to also have a climate agreement with the farmers' organisations, because that's what was pointed out as perhaps the biggest challenge for self-sufficiency and food production in the future in Norway. Then research – new cereals or better seed quality – becomes important, while ensuring good agronomy and knowing how to grow and use our own products. At the same time, we are aware that the world is changing much faster than it did before. There I think the opposition has a point when one says that we have to follow this closely, because it is that the world is changing rapidly compared to 100 years ago. That means we also have to be willing to change when that time comes. But in a priority now, I believe that when the Directorate of Social Security and Preparedness has said that this is not where the focus is now, but that we have to follow it from the climate issue, that is what we need to give priority to. And it was the agricultural organisations that agreed, so that we got to a climate agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e736	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has spoken twice before in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e741	The representative Bjørke took the point of the grain. If you produce on your own resources, it won't be overproduction – exactly. The representative said that operational buildings are not adapted to the area. You haven't thought about economics and how to run the area in a good way. Innovation Norway needs to be given a boost in view of this professional fact that the representative Bjørke is now focusing on. There is old and good knowledge of protein — early turn off grass and lots of clover in the compound feed, and rape and turnips are positive for the protein balance. I just want to say in the end: the note about profitability by producing with a benefit that is adapted to Norwegian natural resources and land is the core. To the Council of State, I would say, the directorate is good, but thinking seagoing and taking responsibility from known knowledge is the most important thing. Now, when we're talking about climate, it's the challenge that puts this further on the verge, in favour of Norwegian land.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e751	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e768	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e785	This is the recent ageing of the year's budget, and it may be tempting to let it go silently, but I think it is a little important to comment that the government has addressed the challenges that have been posed by the Brønn Island Health Registers and the Altonn. Altin will now be transferred to the Digitalisation Directorate from 1 January. The challenges faced by the Brønn Island Health Registers as a whole have been addressed by the government. The economy of the Brønnøsund and Altinn registers has been strengthened by 1 million respectively. NOK 30 million. kr in this budget. This will mean that, if you can use the expression, you will get a ‘simplified process’ when you go into next year’s budgetary process in view of the excess consumption you’ve had this year. So I think it's important that we are clear and show that the Brønn Island Health Registers and Altinn get their budgets this year strengthened – and make the job simpler.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e790	The Brønnøsund registers and the situation at the centre of the discussion of the State Budget for the following year by the Liaison Committee. Now that we hear that the government has taken on board the challenges related to the Brønn Island Health Registers, can we get an answer from the Minister of Industry whether he intends to set up so that we avoid similar incidents for the Brønn Island Health Registers as we have experienced this autumn?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e795	If you read the ejaculation, you'll see what the government intends to do. Because Altin is transferred to the Digitalization Directorate, it's right to add $30 million. kr. The fact that that part is picked up and transferred to a new directorate must be seen as a type of over-consumption, and therefore the money must be deposited. It doesn't automatically mean that the over-consumption would continue into 2020, because then Altin is part of a larger estate. Then we've also announced that we're going to have two external reviews of the economy, one to look at the economy of the Brønn Island Health Registers. Because even though all parts of the public have to deliver on and stay within the budgets they have received, the Brønn Island Health Registers have received a number of project funds, including: to new registries system and some new tasks related to it. They have to have a double-entry or double-working period before the new register comes into place, and there is also a house rent increase in the cold. At the same time, we are committed to having a full and good overview of the economic situation. Then, of course, you have to come back to the next budgets on how it might be addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e802	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e821	As it was said, the main purpose of the agreement for agriculture is to regulate measures that are suitable for the promotion of defined objectives for agriculture and are not exhaustively regulated by law, decision-making or regulation. This agreement, as mentioned above, was first concluded in 1950. It's been years. Since then it has changed only once, in 1992, and it has also been many years. The audit included the procedure for disagreement in the negotiations, the use of agreed basic material and the possibility for the authorities to obtain views from organisations particularly affected by the agricultural settlement but not directly represented in the negotiations. Then there's one more side, and it's the public interest in what's going on in the agricultural negotiations, and what the subject matter is under discussion in these negotiations. The Environmental Information Act entered into force on 1 January 2004. This law has as its object: ‘to provide the public with access to environmental information, thereby facilitating the contribution of individuals to the protection of the environment, to protect themselves against damage to health and the environment and to influence public and private decision-makers on environmental issues. The law shall also promote the possibility for the public to participate in public decision-making processes relevant to the environment.’;» Section 2 of the Environmental Information Act specifies what should be understood as environmental information, including point (b), ‘factors affecting or likely to affect the environment, including administrative decisions and measures, including individual decisions, agreements, legislation, plans, strategies and programmes, as well as related analyses, calculations and assumptions’. [[...]] In this context, it is therefore possible to understand the agricultural agreement and its provisions as factors which affect or may affect the environment quite significantly. On several occasions, decisions are taken in the agricultural agreement without allowing the public to participate in such a decision-making process. The last report, on the previous agricultural settlement, was drawn up by a working group set up in connection with the agricultural settlement, the action plan for industrial development based on harvested wild resources. The government’s website states that no administrative and legal instruments are being negotiated. On the other hand, it is unclear what is contained in administrative instruments, and this is not specified in the main agreement. That's why it's interesting to discuss some questions here. The first is what is contained in administrative instruments, as well as specifying the agricultural policy areas in which the parties to the agreement can negotiate. Point two: In my view, a thorough overview should be drawn up of the laws, regulations and decisions taken during negotiations, as well as of the Treaties restricting the scope for action in the negotiations, such as: the Environmental Information Act, the Climate Act and the Nature Diversity Act. Three: It might be interesting to get an assessment from the Council of State on the main agreement for agriculture now should be amended in line with technical advice and international research to include climate, environment, natural diversity and health considerations, so that this can be included in the annual negotiations. Point four: In view of the possibility for authorities to obtain views from the organisations concerned, they should be able to do so under the law, in conjunction with the Environmental Information Act, i.e. the government, as routinely in the future, obtain views from organisations working on sustainable food production before the annual agricultural negotiations begin. Some views from the Council of State on this could also be interesting. It is against this background that I would like to get answers to the major questions, with which I also close the interview with: whether the Council of State can provide an overview of which laws and decisions restrict or extend the space for action, and whether it is appropriate for the Council of State to propose changes to the agreement, so that consideration of good animal welfare, climate and environment is included.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e850	The fact that the State conducts negotiations with agriculture each year on an agricultural agreement is an important part of the Norwegian agricultural policy. That's why it was also important for the Christian People's Party when we joined the government in January, to state that the negotiating institute with annual agricultural settlements is one of the four supports on which agricultural policy is to be based. The main agreement for agriculture is about the process itself – and I repeat: the process itself – with the annual agricultural negotiations. It regulates the conduct of the annual negotiations on the agricultural agreement, i.e. the rights and obligations of the parties, negotiation procedures, publicity, relations with the Stortinget, international agreements, etc. The main agreement is not about what kind of agricultural policy objectives we should have or what we should prioritise in individual agricultural negotiations each year. It is the Storting that sets objectives, priorities and guidelines for agricultural policy when dealing with communications, propositions or laws. The size of the population can change its agricultural policy priorities relatively frequently and may be expressed, among other things. in the annual agricultural agreements. The fact that different policy priorities have not been included in the main agreement is one of the crucial reasons why it has not been changed since 1992. At the same time, it illustrates that it has acted satisfactorily as a framework for the implementation of the annual agricultural negotiations. In these settlements, the parties are negotiating how to use different instruments to achieve the agricultural policy objectives set by the Storting as effectively as possible. And then the parties will be able to weigh the objectives differently and have different views on the best means of achieving them. The Interpellant asks for an assessment of whether policy considerations should be included in the main agreement. It will not contribute to a better implementation of the negotiations. Nor is it an appropriate way to promote these considerations. Instead, such an approach would have led to the need to change the main agreement more frequently than is the case today. Paragraph 1-1 of the main agreement for agriculture, the purpose paragraph, states: ‘The purpose of the Agreement for Agriculture is to regulate measures suitable for the promotion of defined agricultural objectives which are not exhaustively regulated by law, regulation or regulation.’ The objectives of the annual agricultural negotiations are thus defined in processes other than in negotiations on the content of the main agreement. It is not explicitly stated in the main agreement as to what should be the subject of negotiation, but they must be suitable for promoting defined objectives for agriculture. It is like the Stortinget that sets these objectives. The measures we are negotiating are primarily economic instruments. It is about target prices, level, design of budget support and some regulatory measures. Other measures may, in principle, be negotiated if they are considered to be reasonable in political terms, but it is explicitly stated in the main agreement as to what cannot be the subject of negotiation. Chapter 3 of the Main Agreement states: ‘Agricultural agreements shall be subject to laws and decisions by default, and may not be required to be implemented in breach of treaties binding on the State.’;» The Parties shall not negotiate customs duties and import provisions or taxes. Sometimes, however, the government has introduced changes in taxation on its own as a factor in the negotiations. For example, this year, when the Minister of Finance announced that the government would propose an increase in the agricultural deduction for the State budget later this year. In such cases, this acts as an external change to the framework conditions, which the parties to the negotiations must take into account. The interpellant requests an overview of the laws and decisions restricting or extending the space for action. In principle, all laws potentially limit the scope of action to the annual agricultural agreements, since the provisions of the agricultural agreements stand back from the laws of the Stortinget. It is difficult to imagine that a law would extend the scope of action for agricultural negotiations compared to a situation where this law did not exist. Some agricultural policy measures are best suited to legal regulation. In the interpellation, consideration is given to good animal welfare, climate and the environment as a keyword. I believe that the interpellant believes that we should use the financial instruments in the agricultural agreement in a different way from today to give priority to this. If the Storting agrees with the interpellant, this can be done by means of guidelines to the parties to the agreement, to which the parties must of course relate. But changing the main agreement is neither necessary nor an appropriate instrument to achieve it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e877	I thank the Council of State for the answer, it was very interesting. We are now dealing with a topic that is very crucial for the instruments we have in Norwegian agricultural policy. That is the agreed view, and I am sure that the whole Chamber and the Council of State agree that agricultural negotiations are an important instrument for achieving the objectives set by the majority in this Chamber. It is probably also that the agricultural agreement and the negotiations could have been used more actively in the field of themes which have traditionally not been the subject of negotiations. There have been several times in the negotiations how we can differentiate the support schemes for agriculture in pig-grown areas, for example, and as regards the issue of maritime recovery and channelling the funds geographically and on production units. But climate, natural diversity and animal welfare, these key chords that I have mentioned, have been little inside. The interesting question to follow up on then is whether the Council of States can imagine not just to refer to the constraints, but to introduce new thematics into the negotiations – in these areas that I mention – as some of the positions of the state in these negotiations. It is, of course, a cooperation of the parties in the negotiations that is essential for the development of Norwegian agriculture. As I understand the answer from the Council of State, it is basically open to almost all questions in the negotiations if any of the parties bring it in and for example. can connect it to the support systems and their regulation. What limits the possibilities is only the law where there is a clear direction for what cannot be negotiated. In fact, this means that in many cases the Council of State will appear to be able to negotiate almost all issues relating to animal welfare, natural diversity and climate, for example, which we have adopted here in the Grand Duchy in terms of social development objectives. It would have been very exciting to hear if the Council of State would have a more active role or a more active view of what the State could have brought into these negotiations to use the agricultural negotiations as an instrument in which agriculture plays an important role in society, among other things. in climate emissions — and, of course, animal welfare and marine conservation, etc. It would be interesting to hear about the government's active attitude in such a setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e888	I can confirm that the Council of State has an active relationship with the preparation of agricultural negotiations, precisely because I include political signals from the Stortinget and also from the government. But it has to be based on the majority of the Biggest. I share the interpellant's commitment to both animal welfare and climate. Since June this year, I have had three meetings with a total pig industry and agricultural organisations, just to improve animal welfare in the industry. It will now be mandatory to participate in animal welfare programmes in the case of pigs and a pilot project with camera surveillance will be carried out in slaughterhouses. I am also very concerned that agriculture will have a key role to play in climate change. Agriculture is essential for green growth in the future, and agricultural organisations have signed a climate agreement with offensive requirements to reduce climate emissions and increase carbon uptake by 2030. Norwegian farmers take climate responsibility, and they want to be on that duel. The agricultural agreement for the current year shows that. Climate is a priority matter. We're increasing the subsidy to different climate and environmental measures by more than 236 million. kr. In total, we're now going to grant over 5 billion. kr for environmental and climate action over the agricultural agreement when we count on area and cultural landscape grants. Animal welfare and climate are important issues, but it is not the main agreement that is the good place to highlight these issues that are important for agriculture. Nor does it say that active agriculture is important throughout the country – that we should use the land properly, that we should have a channelling policy, or that we should invest in Norwegian cereals or fruit and vegetables – although there are some of the important issues for me as Minister of Agriculture. And then this is what's been included in the negotiations. It is the Stortinge that sets the objectives of agricultural policy, and the main agreement should continue to deal with the process of how the negotiations should be, not with the content of the negotiations themselves. It's a mission The Storing has in common with the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e899	I want to thank the interpellant for an interesting subject. By extension, I have some questions that could have been even more elaborated, even though the Minister of Agriculture has now given some kind of good answers. One is the process in which the Minister of Agriculture is involved. I understand interpellantly that he wants even more public debate during the negotiations and when preparing what Stortinget will adopt. Therefore, I would like to ask the Minister of Agriculture this question to follow up the discussion that has now been: does the Minister of Agriculture, like the interpellant, want more public debate on our food policy in the context of the negotiations? That's the first question. So the Minister of Agriculture says that it is the interaction between government and growth that is crucial to the content of the policy. I fully agree with that. While it is likely that part of the agricultural negotiations is often equated with wage negotiations between employer and employee, the interaction that the Minister of Agriculture is talking about between government and growth underlines that this is something different and cannot be regarded as wage negotiations in a traditional sense. I would also like the Minister of Agriculture to elaborate on this. So that's the last question. We have just had a very interesting debate about self-sufficiency. What I see as the most important document from Stortinget today is the position of the Stortinget or the Business Committee in the discussion of the agricultural communication. There is, like the objective of the proposal for a representative that we have just discussed at the beginning of this big meeting, a clear objective that the majority wants to increase self-sufficiency based on Norwegian resources. Then, to the seventh and last, I want to ask my third question: is there anything in the negotiating institute that the Minister of Agriculture sees today that makes it difficult to achieve the goal, which is so clearly expressed in the Stortinget, of increased self-sufficiency based on Norwegian resources?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e910	I thought when I saw this interpellation text, that I would see if the representative Nävra was interested in something. He's probably concerned about something, but I think he's in a blind spot, because the agreement is the framework for the negotiations and what gives the right to negotiate. That's it, and so should it. So it's very wide what one has the ability to negotiate. There are, of course, prices and financial frameworks, but we also have examples of customs having been introduced in connection with the Minister of Finance a few years ago sending a letter saying that a person would convert the milk tariff to give more room to the negotiations. Animal welfare is a very topical theme for agricultural negotiations. The question of the amount of money to be put on the field is also a question of animal welfare. We have animal welfare programs inside. When it comes to biological deficiency, there are a number of entries that address it in the negotiations. I believe that what the representative wishes to do here will limit the negotiating space to the parties, because the Stortinget's task is to make decisions and put the political leaders before the negotiations begin. It did one when a spring 2017 dealt with the agricultural notification, it has done one in the setting of the state budget, and that is what the government has to comply with. If one goes beyond what the Storting has agreed, it's a very common case where the government has not followed the Storting's will. But I still think that if you're going to criticise something, it's that the Storting is not clearly enough to express its will, rather by decision and not just by comments. One has full freedom from Stortinget's side to give as clear guidance as it pleases, to the parties in the negotiations. When it comes to the negotiations and how much openness you should be able to have in these intensive weeks, I have believed it. Openness occurs when Stortinget deals with its documents, then there are hearings, and openness occurs when the agricultural agreement is being discussed in Stortinget. Whether it is a breach or an agreement, the Stortinget has formally seen freedom to adopt a different agricultural policy than the government's proposition. Then there's probably a bigger discussion – whether it's a breach or an agreement – whether it's a trick and whether it's right to make changes. I think that whether it's a violation or an agreement, you have to look at whether it's a treaty, is in line with the leaders of the Stortinge – not if it's in line with the central party's policy or the Labour Party's policy, but if it's in line with the Stortinge's policy. Then there's a way to make changes if you want. In recent years, there have been many arms and bones in agricultural policy. It started in 2014. The same party that strongly warned against making changes to what the government had presented made changes to what the government had put forward. It's completely legal and completely possible. I think it's important that we now calm down what the main deal is. And the desire for one to mix up a lot of other concerns and create a policy that neither the parties nor the Stortinge are in – if that is the goal, I strongly disagree with it. Here I think the council gave a thorough and good response to the interpellation. The power of agricultural policy – and that is important, because there is no one to forget – will always lie in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e939	The main agreement for the agricultural industries is from 1 September 1950. It's no coincidence. It came at the same time as similar agreements between LO and NHO. It granted the right to negotiate the agricultural trade union with the State. This is a central point of the Norwegian model, as opposed to the EU model. In the EU model, there is direct decision in the State budget, where agricultural organisations are not involved, as is the case in Norway. It was revised on 17 February 1992 and no significant changes were made to the procedure to which the Council of State referred, whether there were significant challenges in the negotiating system in the 1980s and early 1990s, which I know quite well. The professional team of agriculture is given rights and obligations. As many have been involved, a negotiated solution or not a negotiated solution is to be seen as a preparation for Stortinget's treatment. It is a preparation for the treatment of the Storting – according to the Constitution, the state authorities cannot grant money on the basis of an agreement. It's just the size thing that can do. The purpose of the negotiations is to: «to regulate measures suitable for the promotion of defined objectives for agriculture which are not exhaustively regulated by law, regulation or decision-making». This is practised, by many, in a broad and broad way, and one has gone far beyond this too, and then in a contractual relationship – in many cases with the Prime Minister's office. In order to reach an agreement, one has gone far beyond what was the intention of the negotiating institute. Tax and customs have been introduced there, but there is an understanding with the state authorities, and there will not be a reality without the Stortingen agreeing to it. As for the weakness of the system, I agree with the Council of State that it is not the text of the agreement, but it is the decision of the Storting. This is the decision of the Storting, for example. in 2019, which provides a significant basis for the negotiations in 2020, and here we are facing a number of decisions and not least comments that are unclear – yes, I would say deliberately unclear. They're deliberately unclear. There has been an action room, so we have had a development of Norwegian agriculture that has been different from what many believe. It is to those degrees a weakness, and here the Storting must take a completely different course and be clear on what one wants with the agricultural policy, what one wants with the social mission. We have discussed it and have been made clear that we have not even agreed on it, and then we are much less in agreement on what the representative Nävra addresses, which are important themes related to climate, animal welfare and natural diversity. It can be similarly defined through discussions, comments and decisions from us. Paragraphs 2 to 6 of the Agreement now state that one must be assisted by the Agricultural Budget Item, which is intended to ‘create and process basic material’. It's essential. The purpose of this was to provide basic material in the same way as Technical Calculation Committee, and this would apply to the current year, i.e. to the agriculture agreement in 2019. Therefore, when one is now discussing and discussing not the agriculture agreement for 2019 but for 2020, it is said that it is completely wrong. The budget item does not have figures for 2020, one must return to and negotiate in the calendar year 2019, as one does in the LO-NHO settlement. So there's another point that I want to raise, and that's the first deal, from 1950. It was stated in Section 10: ‘The advantage that agriculture can derive from increased production and rationalisation of farm management, turnover and processing shall benefit, as far as possible, from the setting-up of short-term price agreements, taking into account the economy of the country.’;» That passus has been removed. It's on the rationalization gain. The rationalisation gain must benefit the industry, as it does in the LO-NHO settlement. There it benefits the owner of the capital and the labour force – in agriculture it is not the same way. I just want to say that it is the Stortinget who has to clarify more precisely what are the premises for future agreements. Do so, get a decision and a decision according to the wishes of the representative, and I would like to be in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e964	I am very pleased that this topic is being addressed, because I have experienced several times when we have discussed the agricultural situation, that it has been seen as almost inappropriate to make their own proposals in the Storting when it is either a negotiated agreement, or where one of the parties has negotiated it. I then said on every occasion that the Storting had this responsibility anyway. If the parties also agree, the Stortinget has a responsibility to see if the negotiations have come to an end, leading the agricultural policy in the right direction – or the direction that the majority wants. SV is very happy and eager to maintain the negotiating institute, but it cannot be as I have experienced that the majority of people have done several times, that they have hidden behind a negotiated result and said that then they cannot do anything. It's not like that. The Council of State has confirmed that today, and I am very pleased about that. It has been such in some of the settlements that the trade unions have stood with their backs against the wall and almost with the knife on the throat and know that if it was broken, the government's proposal was to be laid down and presented to the Stortinget. Then they have been sitting and trying to get a little neighbor here and a little bit there, come to results that go in the direction they want, but nevertheless they thought of it as less evil than what was there. This is when the Storting must take responsibility, and until now I do not think that the Storting has been very aware of that responsibility in its entirety. It is very important that we get an understanding of what is the responsibility and role of the Storting. There must also be consistency between the decision of the Storting in these governing documents, the ruling decision, and the follow-up of the government in the negotiations. There's been a pretty big crack there. One is what frame you put on. It is, of course, crucial for the policies that can be pursued, especially in those areas that actually require a contribution from the authorities, i.e. policies, anything that cannot be taken into account in the market. It is not all Norwegian agricultural policy that can be taken into account in the market, and it is very important. Then there are questions about some of these words we're talking about, sustainability, natural diversity, animal welfare, opportunities for the smallest uses, keeping all the land in claim, actually being cared for by the government through the offers and the negotiating frameworks given. It is not always the case that it is, either with the framework or with the means of governance being put in. When you also, as the representative Lundtigen was involved, add to it the theme of tax and customs in these negotiations, you put some premises for the Stortinget as it is very difficult for Stortinget to handle. It shouldn't happen in that order. Those premises must be clarified before an agricultural debate, so that you know what it is. Then either the Storting must take responsibility for correcting the effects of what the majority of people do not agree with, or the majority who knock it through must take responsibility for the effects of those changes. There are a lot of important aspects of agricultural policy that we are discussing a little bit by bit, and the agricultural negotiations are a little special institute. It is not really comparable to other wage negotiations. But it's very important, as the Council of State says, and as many people have been up and down now, that it's the Stortinget that is responsible for this. But it is also the government's responsibility to follow up the leadership given by the Storting and not to destroy them, either by putting too little framework on the table or by negotiating individual elements that draw agricultural policy in a completely different direction from that adopted by the Storing. The sitting government has done that. But I wish the Minister of Agriculture who is now in office to be happy to reverse the negative developments.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e979	I think there have been many good posts here, many good points to get a better agricultural policy here in the country. I think it's a little disappointing that Pollestad agrees with Bollestad, correctly, because I think we're doing Norwegian agriculture a bear service if we don't think new, is a little preconceived and thinking sustainable agriculture. And then the question is, When can the Storting affect, when are we going to be able to understand changes in agricultural policy? Yes, we have got it to Stortinget after the negotiations several times. Sometimes it has almost been sent back again, because it has been too bad. But in any case, as Andersen's representative also said, so much – it is in a way so finished that it is difficult to influence the outcome of the debate. This interpellation is then an attempt to somehow get it into the mandate or into, we shall say, the statutes of the main agreement, so that many other topics can enter into earlier stages than that of the Stortinget after a negotiated outcome. As a farmer's son and a farmer's friend, I want Norwegian agriculture to have a bright future. But I am convinced that the industry needs to raise its eyes and look forward, bring innovative, sustainable solutions for less fertiliser use, better soil treatment, short-range food, smaller feed imports, better animal welfare and less greenhouse gas emissions. Norwegian agriculture has to compete with better standards on this than foreign forms of farming. We have to bet on quality more than on quantity. That's just how Norwegian agriculture can claim to be. The industry must free those who are busy in the countryside and districts. Cultural landscapes, short-range food, animal welfare and quality are the key. The earth must play a crucial role in the climate perspective, since the very most carbon is also on land and is then stored in the soil. Because the soil is to be managed in this thousand-year perspective, as I have mentioned many times here from the pulpit, it is important that we have the right leadership for this, and then the agricultural negotiations are also quite important. A clear problem we face in Norwegian agriculture is overproduction in several areas: meat, milk. It could also be useful to bring forward discussions on the intensity, efficiency objectives, choice of livestock breeds and such matters into the negotiations. When we've drained four or five buckets of milk per cow per day because of breeding and use of power, we might have to start thinking, are we going to have three or four lambs per eye? I want such things into the negotiations at an early stage, and I had hoped that the Council of State would actively contribute to the state's position on such matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e991	I will try to answer some of the questions that have come. I have great respect for the negotiating institute. The representative Sandtrøen has heard that many times. It was so important that it was one of the central things that had to be on the government platform, because it is about a security between the state and the largest continental industry we have, namely Norwegian agriculture with complementary industries. Then there was also a comment from the Stortinget that one would try to reduce the gap between the usual employees and the farmers. We did something about it -- we could certainly have done more, but we did something about it. It doesn't mean direct wage negotiations, but we get a direction from Stortinget, and then we go after it. I think the same thing about self-sufficiency. That's why we added green and fruit. That's why we added more in relation to cereals, just to be able to help regulate it. I would like to thank you for an important debate and establish for Norwegian agriculture that the main agreement, as I read the hall, is firm, but that the Stortinget has an opportunity to join in and determine the direction ahead. The stork has said short-range food. This meant that one on the local food side reached 11.2 billion. kr in turnover this year, precisely because it was a target, and we have used the negotiations. All agricultural activities start with photosynthesis, where carbon is absorbed through plants and crops. It is necessary to understand that agriculture and agriculture are to cut greenhouse gas emissions. But we also have to remember to use just this effect to show how important agriculture is as a solution. So I can answer the interpellant that yes, I will use the recordings I get, but in a debate there are always two parties, and it's very important that we have respect for the negotiating institute. So I'm going to take with me what the majority in this room thinks are priorities, into Norwegian agriculture. No sector is experiencing more changes in the body in terms of climate than Norwegian agriculture. That is why I also feel that they are more than ever interested in being involved and facilitating that we actually get an agricultural sector that is climate-friendly. Then we have to work on research, we have to work on development, we have to grant money, so that we actually use this for drainage, but also to develop agriculture in the future. It's going to be my assignment from this hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1010	The debate on substance is closed. 4 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1026	At the request of the Education and Research Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1033	The case concerns the representative proposal Document 8:170 S for 2018–2019, on a sustainable curriculum for climate and green transition. The entire Committee stresses that key objectives of professional renewal were to reduce the scope of school curricula, to allow for more depth learning and to give priority to the most important subjects. The Committee agrees on this and further points to the fact that sustainable development as one of three multidisciplinary themes in the new curricula is a signal that the school has a key role to play in the transition to a more sustainable society. An overall committee also considers it important for students to be familiar with the organisation of working life through school training. In addition, there are some shared opinions between the position and the opposition in the case. The Workers' Party agrees that curricula will become slimmer with fewer skills objectives. It's positive. But two themes are so comprehensive and central that they should be given more space in the curricula – sustainability and working life. There may be some symbolism that this matter is being dealt with the day after the UN climate summit in Madrid ended in disappointment and postponement. It's serious because we only have a few years left to reverse development. If climate change is to be stopped, it requires extraordinary efforts across society — from industry to school. We're going to develop new technologies, we're going to have a fair transition from fossil to renewables, we're going to create new jobs to save the climate, we're going to transform society. At that time, it is crucial that young people get knowledge of the climate, but also tools to act. It has to happen in school. Unfortunately, the global perspective is far too absent in the new curricula, and sustainable development as a multidisciplinary theme has in our view lost its weight. The theme is included in Norwegian, but not in the basic subjects of mathematics and English. These are subjects that make up not only a large part of the hours in school, but are also very well suited to absorbing climate and sustainability. It is encouraging to see that the teachers’ largest trade union, the Education Association, have taken the climate issue and will work actively to build knowledge and put the teachers’ role at the heart of climate change work. That is why, in our opinion, the conclusion is that the new curricula are indifferent to what society needs, the initiatives of the teachers and the commitment of the students, which we have seen clearly in climate strikes throughout the country in the last year. The core of the Norwegian social model lies in the workplace. Nevertheless, working life as a theme is not included in any of the objectives of competence in the field of social sciences at any stage of primary school. The government should have listened more closely to the LO and the NHO – the social partners – who have been crystal clear that this should be corrected in such a way that students get knowledge. It's about relevance, and it's about preserving and strengthening the model that has served us so well for so many years. I'm taking up the proposals from the Workers' Party, the Center Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1048	The representative Martin Henriksen has taken up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1053	It's only been a few weeks since over 40 new curricula for primary and secondary education were established. The trade union renewal – or the Knowledge promise 2.0, which I like to call it – responds to the needs of the school. When the promise of knowledge came in 2006, it was at that time an important and correct reform. The promise of knowledge increased the pressure on the basic skills, and curriculums were introduced that focused on what students should learn, and not what they should do. This is continued in the field of vocational renewal, while meeting the needs for better interrelationship between and within the disciplines, but not least the change from today is making curricula less extensive. Professional renewal slims down the curricula and creates more overall skills goals. It's about creating curricula that are good work papers, while at the same time giving teachers the confidence and space needed to create good education and progress – not only in the individual subject but also for the individual student. If you look at today's proposal for a representative, the comments and listen to the statements made by the rapporteur, you should ask yourself what the opposition actually puts in the word 'trust', which you have talked a lot about, and what you mean by slimmer curricula. In any case, there is no doubt that it is easier to propose more skills objectives than to achieve the overall objectives of competence and to have confidence in the teaching profession. Yes, you even add a new topic that was not even concerned with the representative proposal originally. The new curricula give the school a valuelift. They help students learn more and better. The contents of the school are renewed to equip students for the best possible future. The context of the curriculum improves and the curriculum changes in both form and content. More subjects are becoming more practical and exploratory, and there is more learning through play for our youngest kids. Critical thinking and source criticism also become a central part of several subjects, and there will be more time for professional immersion. The government has also listened to the consultation rounds by including more subjects in the multidisciplinary themes. For example, sustainable development has been introduced into Norwegian science and democracy and citizenship into mathematics. The work on trade renewal has been a good process. It's been open and involved. More than 20,000 contributions have been made to the new curricula that have made both changes and good adjustments to the best for the final result. In view of this, today's representative proposal is to open doors, now that, among other things. the focus on sustainable development is more focused, but not least by achieving a good balance between the overall objectives of competence and the simplification of the curriculum, and not least by relying on the teaching profession, so that we can create the best possible education for our young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1064	Professional renewal with new curricula in school means major changes to school as we know it today. Schools, teachers, and students are meeting a new and exciting time. Many are already in the process of incorporating interdisciplinary themes and new approaches into education. At the same time, we should not forget how much work remains. The final objectives of competence are still fresh, and we disagree with some of the conclusions of the Ministry of Knowledge, of which the proposal we are considering today. The central party would point out in general that the renewal of curricula should be professionally based and based on the evaluation of the last syllabus changed. The Ludvigsen Committee considered that the curricula had to be streamlined and that more in-depth education had to be provided at school, where four areas of competence were to form the basis for future renewal of the subjects at school. This is a long way from being taken care of, but we react to some grip the Ministry of Knowledge did in the interview. The government, in cooperation with teacher and school leader organisations, asked the government to assess what the sector needed in the local work on curricula, and to ensure that it was the responsibility and professional judgement of the teachers to determine the methods and instruments used in education to achieve the objectives of competence and to fulfil the school's broad social mandate. This must not be overdue for too little time to work with new curricula locally. Nor should it be taken to heart by other ambitions about early intervention or tightening up the training law in the future. Professional judgements and the practice of teachers must be of the utmost importance. The Central Party believes it is a pity that the Ministry of Knowledge took the multidisciplinary theme of sustainable development out of relevant subjects. The trade union group wished differently and had developed objectives and made thorough assessments of how this would be resolved. This is what we are proposing to do today. In addition, we would point out that a well-organised working life is something that the curricula should help to rehabilitate. In addition to this, we believe it is important to go through the quality assessment system, i.e. the assessment carried out in the light of the objectives to be achieved. The government takes out characters in parallel without political debate and assessment of the whole, which we believe is a sin. We want a review of assessment for learning. Teachers spend a lot of time evaluating, and this must be related to other curricula.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1077	The new curricula take Skole-Norway on the right course. There shall be more practical and exploratory learning. There's going to be more depth learning, and finally there's also the right value of the game in the school. The new curricula are heavily based on the recommendations of the Ludvigsen Committee on the future needs of Norwegian schools and education. The selection was set down by Kristin Halvorsen, and the work of the selection showed the need for changes in the view of knowledge and on the content of Norwegian school. The committee made it clear that the school had to work more interdisciplinaryly, and concluded with the Norwegian teachers for a number of years that the students had to have time to learn more depth rather than fool superficial knowledge. And we need to have a broad concept of knowledge and competence in school. We'll find all of this again in the new curriculum, and that's good. One of the themes that Norwegian students will be working on in the coming years is sustainable development, both interdisciplinary and individual subjects. The climate crisis we are facing is a formidable threat, and our basis of existence is threatened. The school plays a crucial role in this crisis situation, which affects us all, and it is our duty as politicians to respond to the greatest threat that people have faced, so that teachers in school have the opportunity to do the same. It is therefore highly critical that the government has omitted sustainable development as a multidisciplinary theme in mathematics and English, and that this theme is also not reflected in the proposal for new skills objectives – not least in English, which are particularly well suited for discussing the main challenges of our time. In addition, English and mathematics account for a large part of the hours spent in school and will therefore be at the centre of interdisciplinary work at school. In 2019, the Education Association decided to step up the work on climate and sustainability. For whom is it that meets children and youth who have been on a climate strike? Who is going to train children, students and students in a way that promotes sustainable development, and who is it that every day has to deal with youth frustration over the failure of parental regeneration? The school has an obvious role to play in climate change, so the curricula must reflect what the climate-stripping students and teachers themselves have realized, namely that climate is no longer a separate policy area, but that this needs to be seen in the context.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1090	Global warming and climate change that can have disastrous consequences for humans, animals and plants are taking place. Our time's greatest global challenge is on the agenda, and it's natural to have it on the curriculum as well. The climate challenge and the loss of natural diversity are a threat to our entire existence. Therefore, climate and environment are also the most important thing for the Left – we must ensure future generations the same freedom we ourselves have, by taking care of the environment. Then we have to think green in everything we do. Environmental considerations must be leading everywhere. As politicians, we need to make major structural changes that promote the green transition we are about to undergo, and at the same time we need to make it easier and cheaper to live environmentally friendly as individuals, so that each of us can contribute. Climate and green migration are not subjects of individual subjects or subjects. That sustainable development is one of three cross-disciplinary themes in the new curricula is therefore both important and timely. Fortunately, the climate debate in Norway has now come to the conclusion that there is a small minority who do not believe in climate change, but still there is a great need for knowledge about both the extent of climate change, the potential impact of our activity, and not least how we can live our lives in a more sustainable way. A week ago, I was presented with a study at CICERO that shows that although the large majority acknowledges that climate change is man-made, there is still a minority who are willing to make major changes in the way they live their lives – such as eating less meat, travelling more environmentally friendly in everyday life or flying less. Fortunately, young people are more concerned about this than the older part of the population — it promises well for the future. The proposers have highlighted three subjects in which they believe the multidisciplinary theme of sustainable development should be included – Norwegian, English and mathematics. I fully agree that it was important to get it into at least one of the subjects with the highest hours that students are going to have the entire school cycle. There's also a clear input left into the process of trade renewal. That is why I was very happy to see that sustainable development was brought back into the Norwegian field after being out in the last consultation draft, when the updated curricula were launched a month ago. It was an important victory. So we know that the students will also meet the theme in social sciences, geography, natural sciences, history, physical training, art and crafts, food and health and KRLE. This will make the school more greener and give students important in-depth knowledge of a theme that will affect their lifestyle, society and working life in the future. The climate crisis is not created by our children, but it is the ones that have to solve it. It's unfair, and the least we can do is rust them as best we can for the mission. This year has shown that children and young people are not the ones most needed to be told that we need to change the way we live and treat nature. That's what they're telling us. Youth has come to realize that their future and freedom are at stake. The enormous mobilization of climate strikes is clear evidence of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1107	Professional renewal, which is now ready to be implemented from the next school year, has acquired a form and content that provides a clearer device, less detailed management and less competence targets. At the same time, it challenges even more the teacher's exercise of professionalism and discretion than the previous one. That's good. It's actually inspiring to hear how many teachers I'm talking to look forward to getting started with a new curriculum, which can provide more room for deeper learning and methodological freedom. It hasn't always been like that. Sustainable development is one of several multi-disciplinary themes that go back as a red thread in the plan. The theme will help students to understand the fundamental challenges and developments in society and help them to deal with them. It is about protecting life on earth, caring for the needs of people living today, without destroying the opportunities of future generations to meet their needs. Sustainable development needs to be based on an understanding of the relationship between social, economic and environmental conditions and how human life-set and resource use have visible consequences, locally, regionally and globally. This is a follow-up to Stortingen's report. St. 28 for 2015–2016 Facts – Deeping – Understanding, which laid the basis for the new curriculum. There shall be no doubt that central and local authorities have overall responsibility to ensure that the telematics is provided with concrete and committed content in the school. The emphasis of the new curriculum on sustainable development makes this an important theme for teacher training. In particular, it becomes essential to identify and visualize the multidisciplinary nature, in other words, how thematics can be presented both professionally and methodically in the many subjects the teacher has on his or her schedule. Most of all, teacher training can give teachers the best prerequisites for teaching in a professional and methodologically good way. I am also familiar with the management function of the textbooks. Although not to the same extent as before relates to just one textbook, but has wide access to a wide range of teaching materials, these too need to demonstrate professional strength and creativity by identifying the ways in which the theme of sustainable development can be presented to students in an engaging way. In order to succeed in providing students with knowledge and attitudes on the subject, we are totally dependent on the fact that the teaching materials can also follow the good intentions of the curriculum. Finally, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, I would like to endorse the importance that the students acquire knowledge and knowledge of the well-organized working life, where the tripartite model is the support beam.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1122	Climate and environmental problems are among the greatest challenges of our time. That is why we have prioritised sustainable development as one of three multidisciplinary themes in the new curriculum. An important objective for the renewal of the profession was to reduce the scope of curricula. Students should be given better opportunities for professional immersion, and then we must give priority to the main content of the subjects. This priority has been made through an open and engaging process where everyone has been able to make recordings along the way. At the same time, there is a strong balance between the objective of reducing the scale and, at the same time, giving priority to the main content. In the last consultation, many would include interdisciplinary topics in several subjects. That is why I chose to include the themes in the subjects recommended by the Education Directorate after a professional assessment. The multidisciplinary themes were incorporated into curricula in such a way that they do not widen their scope but are a central part of the competence of the disciplines. Sustainable development was incorporated into the Norwegian profession and is now part of most subjects. The Education Directorate recommended not to include sustainable development in English and mathematics curricula. The professional assessment was that democracy and citizenship provide a broader approach to the link between statistics and societal issues than sustainable development. English is a relatively small subject, and in the hearing there was a clear feedback that the subject is extensive. The technical assessment was that sustainable development would lead to an extension of the subject and was therefore not recommended. Instead, public health and lifelong learning were incorporated into the English curriculum, since it was considered a central part of the subject. I believe that the curriculum now provides a very good framework for students to develop competence on climate and environmental problems. In terms of knowledge of the organised labour market, it is ensured, inter alia, that: in social knowledge. It says that students will explore and describe how the organisation of society and working life in Norway has changed, and they will discuss how the Nordic model meets challenges facing individuals and society. The new curricula have received a very good reception, and I know that many schools are doing well to prepare to apply their curricula in the autumn of 2020. The Education Directorate is now making resources and packages of expertise to support the schools in this work, and I look forward to monitoring how the new curricula will work in the classroom.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1139	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1145	The big picture is that climate change is going to affect absolutely all areas of society, all we're going to do in the years to come. The theme is so serious and requires such extensive action that the curricula set by the Ministry of Knowledge do not, in our opinion, meet the major challenge. The representative Gudmundsen from the Right spoke about trust in teaching prophecy. One could almost get the impression that the opposition here in Stortinget has suggested that sustainable development and working life should be given more emphasis in the curriculum, is a kind of distrust of the teachers in school. We've all read what the Education Association has said about climate, and we've read that the curriculum group suggested that sustainable development should be incorporated into English and mathematics. Does the Council also believe that if more emphasis were placed on sustainability in the curriculum, would it be to distrust the teachers?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1152	Of course not, and no one has said or meant it either. Let me just stress that, in addition to the climate challenges, sustainable development includes both economic and social sustainability. It is also an important part of the concept of sustainability. Sustainable development has never been proposed as part of mathematics. In the English field, both our assessment and the professional assessment are that there is already a subject that has a lot of themes, and that including sustainability would involve an extension of the subject. So there I have chosen to follow the advice we have received from the Education Directorate. We've agreed that sustainability should be part of the Norwegian subject, but we've chosen to follow the Education Directorate and not include it in English or mathematics.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1159	I thank you for your answer. My second question is about the social partners, the people who organize the working life in which the students are going to go after the education. This government has not always listened to the parties. A large number of samples have been put down, for example: expert selection, without representation of the parties or teachers. They've also made representations to the curricula that they don't think have been listened to. One of them – the one recording we have chosen to present in the discussion of this proposal for a representative – is about the knowledge of the Norwegian model and the organised working life. There, LO and NHO, among other things, have given very clear feedback that it should have been adjusted to become, for example. a concrete objective of competence. The question to the Council of State is, How does he feel that the views of the parties on the curricula have been taken care of in this process?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1166	We have had very good cooperation with the partners in the school sector throughout the work on trade renewal. I myself have run a council where the parties have been well represented. The feedback from the Education Association, the Student Organisation and the other parties is that they are very pleased with the cooperation we have had on the innovation. There has been a desire for the organisation of work to be more clearly involved in the objectives of competence, and that is why we took it into account. Societal knowledge Vg1 states that the student should be able to: ‘exploring and describing how the organisation of society and working life in Norway has changed, and discussing how the Nordic social model faces challenges for individuals and society’. So this is also taken care of in the competence goals. I assume that the messages to which the representative refers came before the department and I made a final decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1178	It's nice to hear the Council of State speak new Norse. Cross-disciplinary themes are exciting. Teachers have already cooperated across subjects and themes on long-term education, and it is good that curricula now take this into account. The Council of State points to difficult balances between adding and subtracting. Sustainable development is all-embracing, and the trade unions just suggested that this should be part of more subjects than the Ministry of Knowledge now ends up going in for. I'm simply wondering what input the Ministry of Knowledge has received, and what professional assessments the Directorate of Education is doing. The trade unions have worked on this for a long time and received thousands of input. What makes the Department and the Directorate for Education different from what they think?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1187	As the representative was involved, there has been a very extensive process. I think this is a historically open and engaging process with the new curricula – with disciplines, with multiple queries and hearings, and we've got over 20,000 recordings in total. Finally, the Directorate of Education and the Ministry of Knowledge must carry out the overall assessment, where perhaps the wish of one trade group may be different from the whole of the proposal. Among other things, the Education Directorate has spent a lot of time reading the curriculum across the board, making sure that there is good progress in the subject, but also good progress between the subjects. It's especially important. When the goal is also to slim down the curricula, it has to be balanced, and the professional evaluation of the Directorate of Education is the recommendations I have followed on the multidisciplinary themes – which subjects they will be in.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1192	I was so lucky to be at the National Meeting of the Federation of Education this fall. It was a big moment when the manager, Steffen Handal, said so clearly that Norwegian teachers will step up their work with climate and sustainability. I believe that I and the Minister agree that the school has an obvious role to play in climate change. Does the Minister think that the curriculum reflects the climate crisis well enough? When he refers to the directorate, who didn't think it was natural that sustainable development was part of the multidisciplinary theme of math and English, I wonder: What do you think the background is for they didn't mean this? I think you might need to know that since you're leaning on the directorate in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1199	The President will remind you that all speeches must be made through the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1204	As far as mathematics is concerned, sustainable development has never been proposed as part of the subject of mathematics from 1st to 10th grade. In terms of sustainability, what I've been dealing with is a curriculum where the feedback from the hearings was that this was a very comprehensive curriculum, and that sustainable development would mean further expansion of the subject. That's why you didn't choose to put it there. Let me stress that sustainable development, climate challenges and social and economic sustainability are not just about the multidisciplinary theme. It is about all the skills objectives that lie in many disciplines, which can also be seen independently. Natural science needs to be good – one of the skills objectives that is to discuss how energy production and use can affect the environment locally and globally – that is important. It's important to be good in mathematics, it's important to be able to be both Norwegian and English in order to be able to participate in the societal debate, and it's not least important to have good critical judgment.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1211	I mean, this is related, and in mathematics, it would also be natural to take up, for example. pollution and statistics on time. I have another question: in the future, municipalities, schools and teachers are going to do a great deal of work to clarify how these plans are to be put into practice. It will be crucial for schools to be able to successfully implement these objectives for curricula. Then they must have time and resources for this. Does the Minister think that teachers will have enough time, and does the Minister have time to think about how, at the same time as they are going to be teaching according to the old plans, they are going to have time to get the new curricula started the next harvest?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1218	In a number of ways, I have been very clear about my expectations for school owners and school leaders, that it is best to facilitate the use of time for teachers, along with school leaders, to prepare for the new curricula. I both expect this to happen and have great faith that it will happen. When I say that, it's because I feel that not only the teachers, but also the school owners are looking forward to using the new curricula. Many people experience that they already have a ownership of the curriculum, and the fact that they already have a ownership of the curriculum means that the teachers are going to work a lot with the curriculum in front. I also expect the school owners to facilitate this, and the Education Directorate to provide good training resources and arrangements for the new curricula.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1224	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1229	There has been a lot of talk about both the subject and the climate and different things that belong together here. I want to say that it is very important to be clear that this is not always what you claim to be a professional, it is a subject. Very often, in fact, purely political opinions are mixed with subjects. I'm positive that you also learn about climate in school. Then, I think it's important to get some actual information in the Norwegian school too, because to the extent that some people claim that we are facing a climate crisis, there are many who claim that we don't. There are a lot of scientists who say that the climate has changed for millennia and millions of years earlier. There have been warmer periods and colder periods. We have had ice age, and around the millennium, when we had the Viking period, there were three degrees warmer in Norway and much warmer than today, for example. on Greenland. At that time, as I used to say, not as many people were driving diesel cars as it is today. That there are different perceptions, I also think they belong at school, that students are taught to have a critical view of what is claimed, especially in the case of natural sciences where there is no – let's say – experiment that proves that theories are right. There are no trials and nothing to prove this claim that emissions of the life-giving gas CO 2 have any impact on the climate. At least in Norwegian school, emissions of CO 2 from Norway are 0.1 pst. emissions in the world as a whole. When you talk about climate, it's in a global, not local context. Of what is claimed to be greenhouse gas emissions, Norway accounts for 0.1 pst., China for 27 pst. and America for 15 pst. Then you have to learn how little meaning — that is. no significance — what we do in Norway alone, is for the climate. The fact that you have to be involved with others is a completely different issue, but our emissions are of no importance. At the same time, it should also be stated that CO 2 in the atmosphere is only 0.041 pst, and of the 0.041 pst. is the anthropogenic proportion — where there is some variation — between 3 and 5 pst. This is factual information that everyone actually agrees on on both sides of this discussion, and then I hope that these facts are also included in what is now within the school curriculum.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1251	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1268	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1285	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1292	I would like to refer to the representative proposal 105 S for 2018-2019 from the Central Party on enhanced helicopter preparedness in the north and attached letter from the Minister for Social Security of 9 October 2019. The proposers point out that the transfer of Bell helicopters from Bardufoss to Rygge has created uncertainty about preparedness in North Norway. Furthermore, the proposers point out that the Central Rescue Centre, the County Council, police officers and the Police Directorate have also expressed strong and unequivocal scepticism that the Defence Transport Helicopters should be moved out of the country. The proposers ask the government to present a case on the emergency situation in North Norway and, in this respect, to consider the question of a new base for rescue helicopters in Troms. Furthermore, the proposers propose that the government postpone the transfer of Bell helicopters from Bardufoss to Back until new rescue helicopters are in place. The Government Parties refer to the government's proposal for the 2020 government budget, which proposes the establishment of a new rescue helicopter base in Tromsø and the establishment of HF coverage in the northern areas, up to the North Pole. I also refer you to the Council's letter of reply and to the Committee's position. For the Labour Party, the core and the issue of this representative proposal is something we have fought too long. As indicated in the setting, it is noted that in the long-term plan proposition it was assumed from the government that no Bell helicopters were to be moved from Bardufoss until sufficient helicopter capacity was established in North Norway by phase-in of NH90 and AW101. And we also remember that the bulk of the population in the inner part. 62 S for 2016-2017, cf. Prop. 151 S for 2015-2016, agreed with the principle that alternative helicopter standby capacity must be in place before the movement can be completed. The majority of the population also clarified that it was not about helicopter capacity established in North Norway but at Bardufoss. I quote: ‘In line with the proposal, the majority concludes that today’s distribution by nine helicopters on Bardufoss and nine helicopters on Rygge continues until alternative helicopter capacity is established on Bardufoss, estimated by 2019-2020.’; Another majority, the members of the Workers' Party, the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, stressed that the time of the transfer of Bell 412 helicopters to the Back can only be finally determined when alternative helicopter capacity is in place. The working party believes that the Army should have its own helicopters on Bardufoss, including that the squadron should remain on Bardufoss. We will also stress in the light of the events of the last few weeks that the major problems in the air ambulance service show how important it is to have emergency helicopters available. I would also like to point out that Health Nord has again asked the defense to borrow a helicopter. The HF and Health Nord RHF air ambulance services have asked the Health Directorate to request the defense to station one of the Defense Bell helicopters with 24 hours' standby in the Church. The mission is so long fixed until Christmas to strengthen the air ambulance offer in Finnmark. The background to the desire for assistance is that we are now entering a demanding winter semester, and we are told that preparedness needs to be strengthened. There is reason to recall that, in October, the HF Air ambulance service was proposed to provide a significantly better preparedness for the service’s new ambulance aircraft, but that the operator, Babcock, was only able to deliver 90.65 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1312	Good readiness is the key to succeed when required events occur. In many situations, we have seen that the cooperative model, which forms the basis for preparedness in Norway, works well. All available resources will be put in standby mode, and may be strongly mobilised. Many different actors are part of this cooperative model and make capacity available when the need arises. I can understand that changes in known emergency structures may in some cases be perceived as unsafe. Then it's part of our task that politicians give people security that life and health are cared for. There should be no doubt that the preparedness, including helicopter preparedness in North Norway, is being taken seriously among the government parties. To strengthen the emergency response in North Norway, a new rescue helicopter base will be created in Tromsø, based on civilian accommodation. This is in addition to Banak and Bodø. In addition, it has been considered that the base should facilitate the provision of services to meet the needs of the police. It includes today's response time of 1 hour. The new rescue helicopter base is scheduled for operation in 2022. In order to ensure that helicopter preparedness for the police in North Norway is maintained in the meantime, it is agreed to put in place a temporary arrangement through the use of civil helicopter capacity. The contract between Airlift and the Police Directorate has been signed and the police's licenses have been increased by a total of 61 million. kr in the State budget for 2020 for this purpose. With the phasing-in of new rescue helicopters on the bases in Bodø and Banak in addition to the coastguard helicopters, the seventh base in Tromsø will provide a significant strengthening of helicopter capacity in the north. The new rescue helicopters will have better range, greater speed, they can lift heavier, are far better technically equipped and have better ability to operate in bad weather than today's Sea King machine. The Norwegian rescue service will have a substantial lift both above sea level and on land. With the solutions outlined in the Council's response letter, we believe that helicopter preparedness in the north is well maintained. In exceptional situations, we have a good tradition of increasing preparedness and putting all necessary resources in mode to enhance local capacity. We also saw this last week with the situation of the ambulance fly that was put on the ground because of technical problems. It was a serious situation that five of the eleven ambulance planes were put on the ground. It gave great challenges in the last week. I have a lot of understanding that people react and become alarmed in those situations. It was not a normal condition, and it posed challenges both for patients and for health professionals. Nevertheless, we also saw that both the operator and public and private operators were able to mobilise rapidly and put in place the necessary alternative resources. The situation was in no way optimal, and we should not take lightly the situation that was last week, but he was tried to preserve the best ability of all involved actors.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1325	The government has created considerable uncertainty about preparedness in North Norway, which is our remotest, most long-range part of the country. People live there in the largest cities, in the middle of the fjords and on the far noses. There is a great deal of activity in fisheries and maritime transport along the coast of North Norway. People elect to the country because of the great nature, many to do sports in the mountain resort or to travel on the sea, which also generates an enormous need for safe preparedness. People in the North, Troms and Finnmark deserve to feel safe – in line with all the other Nordics. The transfer of six Bell helicopters from Bardufoss to Rygge has left a hole in standby in North Norway. Both the Central Rescue Centre, the County Council, police officers and the Police Directorate have expressed strong and unequivocal scepticism that the Defence Transport Helicopters should be moved out of the region. Therefore, the Centre Party has proposed strengthening helicopter preparedness in North Norway. The proposal is both to establish a new rescue helicopter base in Troms, to lay it on Bardufoss, and to postpone the movement of the Bell helicopters on Bardufoss until new rescue helicopters are in place. As of now, the government has said that the defense will have one helicopter standing at Bardufoss from 1 January 2020 to 1 July 2020. Then it's still a long time until 2022. These are helicopters that have had a major impact on preparedness in the region. The move will leave a large whitespace. It's a great weakening to go from six helicopters to one. What happens after 1 July 2020 is also not clear. The only rescue helicopters in North Norway are located in Bodø and on Banak in Porsanger. The distance between them is 100 miles. When a serious accident occurs, time is a determining factor. Therefore, a new rescue helicopter base is also needed centrally in Troms. In March, the ‘Viking Sky’ cruiser in Hustadvika got off the coast of More and Romesdal. We will also discuss this in more detail afterwards. Many people then asked themselves what would happen if it had happened off the coast of North Norway. The consensus is that there would be fatal and far greater consequences because the preparedness is worse in North Norway and the distances are larger. The centre party believes that a new rescue helicopter base must be placed on Bardufoss. It's the most logical and the most reasonable geographical way, and it'll mostly cover the hole between the existing bases on Banak and in Bodø. Bardufoss will contribute to the dissemination of helicopter resources in Troms and North North. It is a central location for maritime and inland missions. Today there is air ambulance capacity in Tromsø and on Evenes. Now it has also been decided that new police helicopters are going to Tromsø. Bardufoss will then be a favourable location for ambulance missions between those bases. The defence also has a lot of activity in the region. Bardufoss is actually Norway's oldest operating station, where helicopters have been stationed for a number of years. The base where already has facilities and maintenance contractors that can be used in a new rescue helicopter base, and a rescue base could benefit from and strengthen the already existing helicopter environment. Yesterday the Minister for Social Security was out in the media and expressed concern at the discussion on the location of new rescue helicopter base. She believes that ‘all’ professional advice recommends Tromsø, and is concerned about what she calls a locating campaign around a new helicopter base. I'm worried that the Minister of Social Security is so blatant when the basis for investigation is so poor. The central party believes that this matter is far too poorly resolved to establish that Tromsø is unfavorably positive, as the Council of State does. In Tromsø, for example. There is no room for a hangar, and finding room for a new base will be a major challenge – and not least a cost. The ministry also indicates that a base in Tromsø will be close to hospitals. But it's just outside the hospital that the accident often happens. That's the distance from the incident to the hospital that's crucial, not how close the hospital is to the helicopter. Therefore, a base located elsewhere than at the hospital can mean that the transport time to the hospital actually gets shorter. A base on Bardufoss will have three hospitals to transport patients to, in both Harstad, Narvik and Tromsø. The purpose of a seventh rescue helicopter base is to cover the gap between Bodø and Banak. By locating a new base in Tromsø, there will be an overlap of helicopter coverage in the north, but there will be an empty space with lower coverage in the south. By laying the new base on Bardufoss, the coverage will be significantly better for the whole region. A new base will also dispose of a rescue car, which will strengthen the overall preparedness of Troms. At Bardufoss you can get an operational base from day one with small investments and an already established helicopter environment. It will provide the best preparedness for the inhabitants of North Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1357	According to the announced agenda, Stortinget is now taking a break for Stortinget Christmas. The meeting will be set at 5 p.m. 3:30.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1375	We shall continue the debate on substance. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1380	Good helicopter preparedness across the country is important, especially in a long-range country such as Norway, to ensure a satisfactory preparedness for both rescue teams, police and other important functions if severe events occur, whether these events are due to weather or other events that may occur. Not least in the northern parts of the country with the special geographical and topographical conditions prevailing there. I am therefore pleased that the government in the state budget for next year has proposed the creation of a new rescue helicopter base in Troms and the establishment of HF coverage in the northern sea areas up to the North Pole. This means a solid reinforcement of both standby and helicopter standby in the north. I am also pleased that you want Bell-helicopter capacity disposed of in Bardufoss. We get a significantly strengthened helicopter capacity in the north as a result of both this and the phase-in of new rescue helicopters on the bases in Bodø and on Banak, the coastguard helicopters and not least the seventh base in Tromsø. I am also pleased to note that in Tromsø it is arranged to meet the special needs of the police, which include today's preparedness in one hour. I would therefore like to thank the Council of State and the Government for taking seriously the important issue of helicopter preparedness in the north, which the proposers of this proposal are also concerned with. I feel that what has been brought about by news and efforts in the state budget takes care of the concerns and concerns raised in this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1393	The government is very concerned about the emergency situation in North Norway, and we take it very seriously. The Norwegian rescue area is very large, and it extends far to the sea and all the way up to the North Pole. It's a demanding, big responsibility. Not least in Troms, where climatic conditions, long distances and long periods of darkness present specific challenges. With increased activity related to cruise traffic, fishing, small boats and mountain tourism, it is important that we have standby capacity throughout our long-range country. Increased activity requires increased rescue preparedness. The population of the north has had lower coverage of rescue helicopters than the inhabitants of the rest of the country. I am therefore very proud and grateful that the government aims to establish a new rescue helicopter base in Tromsø. This will contribute to a significant strengthening of preparedness in North Norway. A tendering procedure will also be initiated, with the aim of putting the new base into operation with a civil operator during 2022. I would like to remind you that there are six rescue helicopters on the mainland of Norway. This is a base structure that was presented in 2011, in connection with Prop. 146 S for 2010–2011, when the Central Party of the representatives put it in a government that had a majority on the Stortinget. In Northern Norway, rescue helicopters are located in Bodø and in Banak. In connection with the treatment of the said proposition, the report was published in Innst. 82 S for 2011-2012 submitted a comment from the Progress Party in the opposition that there was a need for assessments of a seventh base in Troms. That's what we're now delivering on. The new rescue helicopters have far better reach, greater speed and better ability to operate in bad weather than today's Sea King machine. It means greater security for people at sea, along the coast and in remote areas all over the country, not least in North Norway. With the phasing-in of these on the bases in Bodø and on Banak, in addition to the coastguard helicopters, the seventh rescue helicopter base in Tromsø will provide a significantly strengthened helicopter capacity in our northern part of the country. Defense Bell 412 helicopters are on Bardufoss today with one hour's standby for the police. The government recommended in Prop. 151 S for 2015–2016 to collect Bell 412 helicopters on the Back as special helicopter capacity for the special forces. In order to ensure the helicopter capacity of the police in North Norway, on 29 November of this year, the Directorate of Police concluded a lease on civil helicopters and the agreement enters into force from 1 May 2020. The agreement ensures police access to helicopters that stand on standby for one hour throughout the year. The helicopters will operate from Tromsø airport and will support Troms, Nordland and Finnmark police districts. A temporary solution shall be established for the police in North Norway from 1 January 2020, with a helicopter located at Hammerfest, in addition to the continued preparedness of the Defence Force at Bardufoss by one helicopter from 1 January until 1 July. It is proposed that the civil rescue helicopter base in Tromsø also be organised to meet the special needs of the police, and that this includes today's preparedness in one hour. I would also like to point out that there is also a well-functioning cooperation with the Air Ambulance Service, the Coast Guard and other civil rescue helicopters from the petroleum industry in the north. Their helicopter resources make significant efforts within the rescue and rescue area, as the cooperative model suggests. The government is continuously assessing the emergency situation in the north. Safety and preparedness work is a continuous work to which we have considerable attention. This proposal for a representative has already been taken care of by the government's policy and has been briefed on in the budget proposal, almost on the contrary to the Labour Party and the Centre, which has never proposed a seventh base in any of its alternative budgets. I say, "Welcome after."
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1421	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1427	Let me first say to the Council of State that it is very positive that the government is in favour of a new rescue helicopter base in Troms. That's what's needed. What we've seen in recent times of an air ambulance crisis is that it's extremely important that the overall preparedness is in place, that other capacities can be deployed. After all, Health Nord has been failing for the first time since the ash cloud in this situation. At the same time, we know that the 330-square is in a phase of demanding NH90 deployment, and what we also see is that the Defense Bell helicopters have been deployed to relieve and secure the population in the north, for example. in Finnmark. These are the same helicopters that the government will move south, despite the fact that the Storting has said that today's distribution with nine helicopters on Bardufoss and nine on Back will continue until alternative helicopter capacity is in place at Bardufoss. My question is, in the situation we're in now: what alternative helicopter capacity is it that the government thinks is in place to defend it cut?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1432	Thank you very much for the question from the representative. That's right, I've been working from January 22nd this year as a Minister of Social Security to get to a seventh rescue base. What we saw from the MS Viking Sky incident was that we picked up resources both privately and publicly to assist in that situation. We'll do that in a similar situation. Bell has assisted, but with relatively few missions in relation to air ambulances and search and rescue – in 2018 this was 12 missions. But we will point out that all public bodies that have resources suitable for rescue purposes also have obligations to contribute to the rescue services when necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1437	It's tempting to follow up on asking, what alternative helicopter capacity the government promised is what's actually in place in the north now, when you cut down on the helicopters at the same time? But I want to ask about another thing. What the government has said is that the new rescue helicopter base should be based on civil lease. The question then is simply whether it means that a new rescue helicopter base in Troms will differ from other bases. It is reasonable to assume that civilly hired helicopters cannot carry out the mission width that the helicopters can do under the umbrella of the Air Force, and even if the government states that it may be ‘on sight’ that the air defence must operate the base that the government wishes to localise to Tromsø. The question is whether the government believes that a new base in Troms based on civil rental will differ from other bases, or will it be able to have the same kind of preparedness as the other rescue helicopters in Norway, which are thus operated by the Air Force and the 330 Quadron?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1442	Very well, I'll solve, and this is important. I have always worked as a social security minister to get a seventh rescue base in place, despite the fact that none of the parties behind these representatives have recommended this or proposed it in their own alternative budgets. The reason why we're going for is a civil rescue helicopter base first, is that it's faster to get in place than a military -- like the Florø base. In the long term, we will consider and look at the possibilities to also deploy the new rescue helicopters – the world's best – also in Tromsø.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1447	The government presented the news of the location of a new rescue helicopter base in Tromsø in the draft state budget for 2020 without saying anything more about what was the basis for choosing Tromsø over Bardufoss. The majority of the Judicial Committee is today behind the position where we are asking the government to present a case on the emergency situation in North Norway and to that end to consider the question of a new base for rescue helicopters in Troms, including localisation. There are many reasons why Bardufoss is better suited and that there are weaknesses at Tromsø as location. In the light of the statements of the Council of State in the future in the North that she is very concerned about a location debate on a new rescue helicopter base, I wonder: if the Minister of Social Security is so sure that all the technical advice points to Tromsø – as she said – then why is she so concerned about doing a more thorough investigation of that question?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1454	Thank you very much for a good question. We are concerned with social security in Norway. We see a base structure on Bardufoss as an employment measure. That's not what we're working on. We're working on saving lives. The feedback we have received from all the actors who want to establish themselves points to Tromsø. The 330-skavdron points to Tromsø, and not least points to the Chief Rescue Center on Tromsø. We need to get help quickly to those in need, and the most important activity is in Tromsø. The air ambulance reports back to 75 pst. of their rescue missions are in Tromsø. We want to get back to the base quickly and not least have access to tangible resources because we want to save lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1461	I think it's quite remarkable that the Council of State says outright that she believes that Bardufoss is a purely employment measure. On the contrary, there are many reasons to add a base on Bardufoss. There's a helicopter environment. It's a location that would make the path to the hospital as short as possible for many rescue operations. It is also a location that North Norway itself wants, for example. in June, the County Council of Troms decided that the rescue helicopter base must be established at Bardufoss. Then I wonder: Why does the Council of State think that she knows better than the County Council in Troms, and has chosen to override that recommendation to establish the base of Bardufoss? And does she think that the county council in Troms and also the Central Troms Regional Council, which has meant the same thing, is not able to ensure the safety of the inhabitants when they recommend Bardufoss?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1466	What County has meant is not what I put the emphasis on. I put emphasis on the rescue professional advice, where everyone points to Tromsø. The main activity of search and rescue is in the Tromsø area. We have many more capacity for rescue on land. We have few capacity for rescue at sea, we also have a few lifeguards in this area. So it's the case that rescue counsel has been the basis for this. I see no alternative options for the representative's questions other than employment measures. I have a great deal of understanding that Bardufoss and the environment at Bardufoss want increased activity, but my main commitment in this matter is to save lives, and we save most lives and come to the rescue of Tromsø as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1471	There's a broad consensus in this room that it's extremely important to save as much life as possible, and I think it's a pretty bad claim from the Council of State that anyone who thinks that Bardufoss is the best location doesn't take it into account. This is not about employment. It's about what will provide the best possible rescue service in Troms. A location on Bardufoss in front of Tromsø would provide a proper coverage of the district. If you locate the base in Tromsø, it's a pretty big hole that doesn't have rescue helicopter coverage, south of Troms. There are also good quadrupulous reasons to have the base on Bardufoss. I am stunned by the weight of the Council of State that the rescue operations take place in Tromsø. They certainly don't. The need for rescue services is precisely in the entire state of Trom -- in the mountains, on the sea, around the state of Trom -- and it's important that the helicopters are close to where people need to be rescued. Don't the Council of State agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1480	I fully agree that the rescue helicopter service must be where people need to be rescued. Most accidents occur in and around Tromsø or on the sea west of Tromsø and northwest of Tromsø. A serious accident also ends with hospitalization, and Tromsø has specialist services that you actually need. They have trauma teams, neurosurgery, and thoracic surgery. Not least in the case of frost damage and cooling, one needs to get to the best hospital, and in this context it is Tromsø. I repeat, my main point here is to save as many lives as possible. Most lives can be saved better from Tromsø than from Bardufoss, alone for time's sake. You get help faster for those in need. Not least that is the capacity to fly back to base. If you're going to have it on Bardufoss, it'll also take time, and you'll come to a possible next rescue.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1487	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1495	We cannot have an a and b layer in terms of safety and preparedness in Norway. That's why it's essential to put in place a new rescue helicopter base in the black hole that's between Banak and Bodø today, where the population doesn't have the same security and security to get the preparedness they need. It is positive that the government has gone into favour of a new base in Troms, but I have to say that I react very much and will distance myself from the arrogant attitude I believe we hear from the Minister of Social Security and Security today – first of all by characterizing those who want to lay the rescue helicopter base to Bardufoss, as being engaged in employment measures. You could say a lot about it, but it's a good idea to argue for Tromsø as the base, which is also a very good alternative, without talking down the helicopter environments or the environments you have on Bardufoss. It is also rather arrogant to dismiss the hearings that have come from the county councils of the north, from the municipality of Trom, which are actually hearing bodies. We must expect a minister in a government to listen to it and not disapprove of it, as we heard from the Parliament today. The alert in Troms between Banak and Bodø has been partially covered by the use of the Army helicopter for civilian missions. It has been an important support. And so now, when there's been a crisis in the air ambulance service, it's the Bell Helicopters of Defense, among other things. has provided support in Finnmark. It has been important, but at a time when there is uncertainty about the air ambulance service and the government is moving the army helicopters from the continent, it is absolutely necessary to establish a new base for the rescue helicopter service. As I said, both Bardufoss and Tromsø are good alternatives, but there are also good reasons to have a rescue helicopter base in Bardufoss. It is central in Troms, it is between the cities of Tromsø, Harstad and Narvik – with its hospitals. You already have Bardufoss air station, operated by Air Force, and can exploit the synergies with the Defense. It has a helicopter-professional environment, the infrastructure in place and the industry and the maintenance organisation in place. If the Air Force is intended to operate the new rescue helicopter base in the long term, it is more efficient to have one air defence base in Troms than to use two resources. It is in the opposite direction of what has been the professional military advice in recent years, to concentrate more activity. It is fully possible to coordinate efforts, for example: against RITS or alpine rescue groups, also from Bardufoss. It's not district policy that you want to put this kind of business outside the cities, it's not that in this case. That is overall – because the Workers' Party believes that this is the best option.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1508	First, of course, I agree with a lot of what my colleague, Mr Henriksen, just said. But I have to say that I was unsure whether I heard correctly when the minister answered the questions. I wondered if the minister might have taken a lot of Møller's tran, but it didn't vote. The minister meant everything she said to begin with, and I have to admit that I would like a little more humility to express what the minister now came with. It's perhaps one of the most arrogant things I've heard in terms of how to talk about the recordings that have come from Troms -- from Mid-Troms, from a county council -- ever. Nor is it the case that a new hospital is to be built, because that's almost how you talk when you tell about all the functions at UNN. We have great features at UNN, and they enjoy a whole section of the country. So we don't have to build new functions to put in place a rescue helicopter base in Troms. This is high time, and that is why I say you should be a little more humble in this matter. It has been working for a long time on this matter. It didn't start when we got a government council in place. Many local and regional politicians and many trade unions have been working for years to get this done, because it has been seen to be needed. Activities have increased, and the need has become even greater. At a time when people along the coast of North Norway are afraid of life – because that's the situation – because we have a crisis in preparedness in the north, you stand here and tell us about adventurous preparedness, that now you have to be satisfied because you're getting well prepared in the north. I would not expect you to expect the same kind of preparedness in North Norway as in the rest of the country! It's not like people from the north are bleeding slower than people from the south. I'm just getting pretty familiar with what's coming right now. There's another dimension to which it's referred: The Bell Helicopters. They are crucial in many rounds when you see that we have a crisis in the air ambulance. Now it's like the movement of them has already started. That's not what the Big One asked for, but it's started. I will end by giving a great deal of thanks to the many political environments that have done a very solid, big job over many years. And that's the way that those people who think you're supposed to be based on Bardufoss are just as busy saving lives as the Council of State. There can be no doubt about it. The environments that are at Bardufoss, in the Mid-Throms, the county of Troms, are also concerned about saving lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1521	Since this government has chosen to raid North Norway for the Defense Bell helicopters, we have seen how important these helicopters have also been for the preparedness of the people of the north. It's a shame that it's the transfer of Bell helicopters that first got the eyes of the government up for a new rescue helicopter base to North Norway. Security and preparedness for people in the north are important. There is a long way between the existing rescue helicopters bases in North Norway – one in Bodø and the other in Banak. Then I have to say that I was very surprised and disappointed by the response to the Council of State, which claims that we who have landed at Bardufoss do so because of an employment need. The Council of State decides to overrun the county council in Troms, and also to overrun the county council of Troms and Finnmark's recent Bardufoss decisions. Now the government has landed on Tromsø, and first let me just say that it's good to add a new base to North Norway. But you have to be able to ask why the government has landed on Tromsø. At Bardufoss there is already an air station operated by the Air Force. There is a good helicopter environment, infrastructure, industry and maintenance organisation in place. You can also benefit from the synergy with the Defence. So we can choose to use a lot of resources to build a whole new base in Tromsø, or you can use a fully developed, well-developed base on Bardufoss. The centre party has been very clear that we want the emergency base for Bardufoss. There is also a point that today there are already ambulance helicopters on Evenes and in Tromsø. New police helicopters have also been adopted for Tromsø. Dissemination of resources across the country is important. The best overall coverage is obtained if a new rescue helicopter base is added to Bardufoss. A new base will also dispose of a rescue car. It strengthens the overall preparedness in Troms, and especially in Mid-Throms. The Ministry argues that it is important that the rescue helicopter base is located in a hospital. But in most cases, accidents are just a long way away from hospitals. Therefore, most of the other rescue bases today are not located in hospitals, but often in areas between hospitals just to cover the emergency shortage that is. I also wonder why no more professional assessments have been made regarding both the preparedness and costs of setting up a new base. That was the central party's proposal for a representative in the first place. It seems that the government has locked itself to Tromsø, and I find that regrettable. I also find it very regrettable that the government chooses to move most of the Bell helicopters to Back from Bardufoss. So it happens before a new base is even in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1536	I am pleased that the search lights are set on standby in North Norway. It is today, as many before me in the pulpit have said, a standby hole between Banak and Bodø. In the opinion of the committee, I read that the majority – the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party – will have the new rescue helicopter base that the government will set up for Bardufoss. There may be a lot of good reasons for that, but I think the base should be in Tromsø. The majority of the Committee suggests that fishermen in Troms need better preparedness in the form of a helicopter. I agree with the heart, but I find it paradoxical that they will move the base to Bardufoss. An article in the fishing magazine yesterday shows that for the fishermen in Karlsøy, northwest of Tromsø, location at Bardufoss will mean up to 30 minutes longer in the sea at a loss than if the base is in Tromsø. The main rescue center itself informs that the flight time to Vannøya in Karlsøy municipality is between 20 and 25 minutes from Tromsø with AW101, versus 45 minutes from Bardufoss. In addition, the plane will then have to interconnect in Tromsø to bring with it smoke divers, emergency medical personnel and the like. Fishing organizations say that Tromsø is best for fishermen. The main rescue center in Bodø says that Tromsø is best for the fishermen. Then I have to ask myself: why does the Workers' Party not listen, SV and especially the Center Party to the fishermen in Karlsøy, who know where the shoe is pressing? Why don't they listen to the professionals who can get ready? Some things are too important for political spins, and life and preparedness are such a thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1549	Preparedness is important. It's about having resources that you might not need, but they're all the more important. I just have to start with a recital after hearing the Council of State on the pulpit here. I've been in the county, I've been the county councillor, and I've never seen a state council say you don't care. What those who are directly elected by the inhabitants of Troms, think about these decisions, you don't care. I was sad to hear that. This cannot be the way to manage the power you are set to manage when you are the Council of State for all the inhabitants of Norway. What concerns the Workers' Party is total preparedness, and we will stress the seriousness of the major problems we have seen in the air ambulance over the past few weeks. It is then important to have emergency helicopters available. Now Health Nord has again asked the defense to borrow their helicopters, and they have asked that this be beyond today's mission, which lasted until Christmas. There is reason to recall that the air ambulance service in October was proposed a significantly better standby with the service of the new ambulance aircraft of the new operator, Babcock. Today we know the story. A week and a half ago, five planes were put on the ground, and the scandal has led to a real crisis, where Health Nord has also put a crisis down. They did so last time during the famous ash cloud. In this situation, the Health Minister responds to the fact that total preparedness is good, but the government's plans are not consistent. Bell helicopters shall be moved to Back and rescue helicopters are important, but their mission is search and rescue. They can remedy, but they cannot replace the failure of this government in emergency medical preparedness throughout the northern part of the country – the worst hit is, of course, East Finland. There's no solution to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1558	I take the floor primarily to comment on what is in the position of the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee on this matter. I quote: ‘The Judicial Committee sent draft terms of reference to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence to its opinion on 26 November 2019. The Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee informed in a letter dated 4 December 2019 that it joined the suspension and did not have any further comments.’;» The fact is that the majority of the Foreign Affairs Committee does not support the position of the majority of the Judicial Committee, but supports the minority in the Judicial Committee. Then I have to use the opportunity to clarify to the representative Borch that the helicopters, in line with all other national defence resources – such as ships, aircraft, army departments, helicopters – are national capacities to be deployed and located where they can be most useful to the nation, collectively. There's a professional assessment behind moving the Bell helicopters to Rygge, and the professional assessment that weighs heavily here is the fact that we have 18 hulls, we have too few hulls no matter how you choose to locate it, and you have a shortage of both technicians and pilots. In order to get a concept that goes the best way around and makes the best possible use of it, the country has come to strengthen the helicopter capacity of the special forces. It's also a direct follow-up to the Yard Commission. This isn't a mess of helicopters from North Norway. North Norway has no helicopters, the South has no helicopters, the West has no helicopters – Norway has no helicopters.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1570	When five of Babcock’s ambulance aircraft were put on the ground last Saturday due to technical problems, the remaining aeroplanes, including the Brønnøy aircraft, were subject to restrictions imposed due to visibility, cloud height and crosswind. Although the representative who had just said the word, said it's Norway's aircraft, it has a meaning where these planes are stationed. Whether it's Norway's plane and everyone's in Oslo, it's not particularly favorable for those who need an ambulance plane in Brønnøysund or in Bardufoss. This Brønnøy plane did not get into Brønnøysund because of these limitations and had to return to Bodø. It was then announced, although it was not among the planes that had technical problems. The well-eyed pilot who stood up in the paper on this matter suggested that the readiness was halved. She was like, "Oh, my God. ‘We are really dependent on goodness, and the preparedness is not much worth it.’ Just that sentence we can put two lines under, because it's a very serious situation that our preparedness should be dependent on goodness. 286 undesirable events are very serious. I have registered that there are people who call for delays not to be adverse events. I think it is regrettable and difficult to understand. If it's urgent, of course, a delay is a very serious incident. The emergency medical offer outside the hospitals has not been strengthened. Everyone who follows through on what is happening in this case knows. We need sound air ambulance services and enhanced helicopter standby.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1584	When the opposition is talking about arrogance, I listen with a moment, because that's exactly what the representative Myrseth did. At the same time, they do not see their own obvious arrogance when one chooses to politically try to overcome what is professional advice. One even goes so far as to refer to the opinions of a report from a mid-Throms business area, which is based on statements from the county council. None of this is about preparedness. So you don't care what the Main Rescue Center in North Norway meant, you don't know what the fisheries organisations are saying. That's the definition of arrogance in my eyes. So I'm going to be honest: when I raised this matter as the state council in 2017, I also thought that the natural choice was going to be Bardufoss. But it turned out it wasn't. Unlike the opposition, I listen to the technical advice. Not least, I'm glad that we have a Minister of Social Security who has raised this issue and is ready to get through to create a seventh base. She deserves all the bragging about that, because it's not a matter of course – on the contrary. The six-base structure was placed under the previous government, when, as we know, the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party were seated at the steering wheel. Then no one wanted a rescue base in Troms. Only the Progress Party asked for it in Stortinget. At the time, there was no interest in it. When I raised the matter in 2017, there was no interest from the opposition parties. But when you can make it a political game, the opposition is all of a sudden extremely concerned about this matter. It's not for believers. That's why I hope you spend your time well -- we go into the Christmas season -- and think a little bit about what things to do in a political game, and who you might want to stay too good to do in a political game. This is an example of the last one. Because it's about people's security, security and preparedness out there. That's the core of this case. There are no jobs at Bardufoss. I would like to see the base established on Bardufoss, but I am listening to the professional advice that comes from heavy operators like the Main Rescue Center in North Norway. So I think we're going to spend the time well, because the permanent base isn't going to be established tomorrow, even in this big period. Let's substantiate with the facts before we think we have the recipe for everything.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1595	I think the vast majority of people in this room are quite a few in that getting another base is very good. It's very important, especially after one has swung the preparedness in the north by reducing the number of Bell helicopters so much that it has become a tremendous weakening of the total preparedness. When the crash is over, please insert all available resources. The resources available in the north have been permanently weakened by the fact that one has taken half of the Bell helicopters and placed them on the Back. There is the highest degree of professional uncertainty and impassability for most people. So that's the starting point. There's something special about this discussion, because it's the distance from the event to the hospital that's the starting point. That's what determines help, not how close the base is to a hospital. So here's a flipped discussion up and making this a district question. Where are the other bases? Banak's not in a hospital. It's a good piece for both Alta, Kirkenes and Hammerfest from there. It's in Lakselv, for those who know. Ørland is another base. It's not in Trondheim, where the hospital is. It's proximity, the possibility of moving out to events and then transporting people to hospitals. Florø is another base. It is not in Nordfjord or Førde where the hospital in this region is. The sun is not in Stavanger, etc. You can go through the whole list like that. Calling Bardufoss a district policy measure because it's not a hospital town, well, then all of a sudden it's pretty much what can crawl and walk out of bases, or else around, a misposition. But that doesn't mean a well, does a well? So the question is, what's the bottleneck here? A user uses a quarter from Bardufoss to Tromsø. But the bottleneck isn't it? This is clear-cut for example. marine rescue operations — RITS. There was something the Council of State not mentioned in its article. What is their clear time? Are they there in 15 minutes? They're not ready in 15 minutes. It'll take longer. So if you want to get out of the field as quickly as possible, you need to reduce the bottlenecks of the other resources that you depend on to get to the place. It has not been able to justify in these articles. I think it's a strange discussion we're in here, where one thinks it's a district policy measure to place a base on Bardufoss, but not on Banak or Florø etc. One has not been in the clear time of the resources you actually need to run the active rescue. So I think that here one could go a little bit quieter in the hallways before one began to click out their biggest cannons.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1606	It's not that if you mean one thing, you're on the fasitizer and you have all the facts in your hands, and you mean something else, you don't have it. That's almost what you think if you listen to the position now says in this debate. You just talk about Bardufoss and Tromsø. It's a very important debate. And if there's one thing that most of the opposition also recognizes, it's that you'll get a good base whether you add it to Tromsø or to Bardufoss, but you've chosen to focus on a lot of other things. And no, it's not about employment measures at Bardufoss, because this is about saving lives for us all. I had to speak when the representative of Elvenes made his very instructive statement on how things relate in this country: yes, that's how everything we have of defense material is national resources. I guess no one has ever tried to argue. When it comes to the Bell 412 helicopters, which should be distributed nine to nine until at least alternative capacity was in place, this has not been the case. The reason why you want to have helicopters on Bardufoss is about professional military arguments, and for that very reason, the head of defense in his professional military council has just said that you need your own helicopters dedicated to the Army. So if you don't want to listen to the opposition, you can listen to the head of defense yourself. That's what's at stake here -- you need to combine with the Army. In addition, you have a completely different dimension in North Norway, because you're assisting in preparedness, whether you've gone a step or you need an extra helicopter because you don't have ambulances available in the air. Then you need capacities. Fortunately, we've had helicopters on Bardufoss that have been able to contribute exactly this. Finally, the representative Amundsen goes up to the pulpit and only talks about one measure. But what he's not talking about is what I just mentioned, Bell 412. Is the representative of Amundsen satisfied with the fact that you are now just moving the helicopters from Bardufoss without having any alternative capacities in place? He has been reasonably clear in his statements, at least in his own state, but what does he think of this now? Finally, I also hope that the Minister intends to take the floor and answer a lot of what needs to be answered, for example. Whenever you can – for now you have to use civil helicopters to get a base in place – guarantee that the base in Troms is a permanent base on the same line as all the other bases in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1617	Being accused of running a political game in this matter can be an interesting exercise. I listen to the representative Per-Willy Amundsen of the Progress Party when he asks the opposition to think about what things to do for a political game. To put it briefly: Christmas trees and concerns about Christmas at IKEA may well be suitable for political games – the Workers' Party's concern for Northern preparedness is not suitable for that. What we have not received a response to today, which I hope either the representatives of the government parties or the government council can respond to, is what kind of alternative helicopter capacity has come into place in the north, when the Bell helicopters are moved before we have a new rescue helicopter base. There have been very many clear statements in the matter of moving the Bell helicopters. The representative Per-Willy Amundsen said to Folkebladet on August 8th this year – then it was a proper election campaign, but the quote was clear – that ‘it is totally inappropriate that there should not be an emergency solution in place on the day the Bell helicopters leave Bardufoss.’ And that ‘nothing shall be moved before alternatives are in place’. The chief of police in Troms and County in Troms and Finnmark have said that there is an increased risk in critical situations if you stand without helicopter support from Bell. But what happens is that the aid is removed without any alternatives in place. It's interesting to get answers today, from the same representatives, about what kind of alternative helicopter capacity has come. I would also like to say that in the case of professional advice, there is no lack of concrete, juicy statements here. The same representative, Per-Willy Amundsen, said in the same paper in the Official Journal on 8 August that: ‘until something is permanently in place, there is no alternative other than Bardufoss’. I expect that you do not say anything like this as a wholesaler without a professional basis. It's okay to change your mind, but it's a problem if you say so bombasticly without listening or having back coverage in your own party, and that means you have to turn the five ear. Because it is not that there are district or employment measures that allow the Workers' Party to join Bardufoss. Yes, we also listen to the fisheries organisations, but the rescue helicopter base should be part of a total preparedness. It shall be available at sea, at mountains, inland and coastal levels. In South Troms you are concerned about the preparedness because you have cut out an ambulance boat in the Vågsfjord pool. For them, Bardufoss will be a good alternative. You can't extract one part of the rescue helicopter base and tell it to decide everything. It is the total preparedness and the total benefit of the base that must be decisive.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1638	I would say to the representative Myrseth that who teaches who, perhaps, can be an open question. But there's actually a lot of learning in fact, and there's some facts that actually need to be repeated. Yes, it is right that the head of defense in his professional military council already in Option D, which is the lowest option, recommends new helicopters to the Army. It's an expression that there is no other adequate solution for the Army than that the Army gets new helicopters. It's related to what I said before, that the 18 helicopters are on their way into the sunset, and there's too few helicopters to be able to provide both the special forces and the Army with fully-fledged helicopter support. A priority has been made, and that priority is very, very serious. It has, among other things, the relationship with the Gjørv Commission. Priority has been given to the ability of the special forces to prepare for counter-terrorism. Now that we're in on helicopters, it's very tempting to remind the Workers' Party of the party's own helicopter history. In spring 2018 there is a big look-up in VG with Jonas Gahr Støre. You have to go to the second-hand market and buy new Bell helicopters and find them at a price of 200 million. kr. You create hopes; you've obviously found a solution. Alternatively, the 2019 government budget comes from the Workers' Party: no trace of the purchases of these helicopters that were clearly found on the used market. Then we come to the year of the Lord 2019. It's election year, and the Workers' Party is still out with its local helicopter message. Then you have to buy Black Hawk helicopters. It was then found that it was the solution to provide the army and the special forces with satisfactory helicopter capacity. You create expectations. Alternatively, the 2020 government budget comes from the Workers' Party: no sign of Black Hawk helicopters. To the extent that someone is going to put his light under a ship in this helicopter question, it might be the Working Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1653	The main task of the rescue base shall be to perform rapid and effective rescue helicopter services in the area between the bases of Bodø and Banak and in the sea areas outside. Although Bardufoss geographically lies midway between Bodø and Banak in the airline, it is essential what will constitute the primary operating area of the seventh base and, as several have mentioned, logistics for the transport of personnel involved in the event, and not least those in distress, and those in need of rescue. I have an overview of what kind of tangible capacities are at Bardufoss – I have lived for many years at Setermoen and worked as a volunteer in the rescue service. There is a great difference between what kind of tangible resources exist in Tromsø and in Bardufoss. A different location from Tromsø will mean more time to retrieve these resources. It's time that's crucial when you need help. At the same time, rescue helicopters are a primary rescue resource for marine rescue operations. On land there are many other alternatives and therefore rescue helicopters at sea are essential in this matter. The distance to critical sea areas has been mentioned earlier here. It's an important element in the overall assessment of where we're going to put this base. Maritime rescue is crucial for several of those involved in a situation where assistance is needed, and not least in recent days, fishing interests have given clear feedback on what they need. It's also important that we look at the statistics on where the events normally occur. Here, Tromsø points out as the clearly most relevant location of the base. From mid-2015 to mid-2018, the air ambulance’s Tromsø base had approx. 220 SAR missions at SAR request, of which 50 were. in the Tromsø area. I have not heard in the debate or in any other video a single argument that compensates for the argument of coming to the aid of those in need as soon as possible. I have listened to rescue medical advice and put more emphasis on them than on the political ones. If it's arrogant, yes, I'm arrogant.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1666	I did not hear that the Council of State answered some of the questions that were asked her. I want to challenge the Council of State once again, because she is standing here on this pulpit and says that the council in Troms and Finnmark's opinion on this matter does not matter to her. Can the Council confirm that I heard correctly? It bears witness to the whole problem in this case, that it has not been properly investigated. As mentioned above, this was originally a proposal from the Central Party to investigate the emergency situation in North Norway, and then to assess where it is most appropriate to lay the base, an investigation that takes all input, including from those elected, either in county councils or from local government. The main task of this new rescue base is to fill the emergency gap between Bodø and Banak. Then Bardufoss lies in the middle of today's two nearest bases, and no relevant locations are better suited to cover this emergency hole, either north-south or east-west. Then I notice that the Council of State is standing here and continues to say that it is important that the rescue helicopter base is located in a hospital. But as I mentioned earlier: in most cases, accidents are just a long way away from the hospital. That's also why most other rescue bases are located in non-hospital areas. A base on Bardufoss will have three hospitals to transport patients to: Harstad, Narvik and Tromsø. It is the distance from the incident to the hospital that is decisive and relevant, not how close the hospital base is. So to the representative of Rivers, who thinks it has nothing to say where the defense helicopter is located. If it's Right's new attitude to the Army helicopter, it surprises me very much. Of course, it has something to say where the Army's helicopter is, and they're located near the Army's centre of gravity, which is on Bardufoss. The helicopters we have now are the Bell helicopters. This should at least support the proposal of the Central Party to postpone the movement of the Bell helicopters, because the army helicopter at Bardufoss has been crucial in many emergency situations in recent years. I can mention two of the last two. In the terrible accident in the Tamok Valley, Bell helicopters were crucial, and even in the crisis in the air ambulance service, Bell helicopters are crucial. So if the Right and the Representative of the Elves are serious about what he is standing on this pulpit and saying, he should at least support the proposal of the Central Party to postpone the transfer of Bell helicopters.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1677	The representative, Martin Henriksen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1682	I would first like to repeat that both I and other representatives from the Workers' Party have said that both Tromsø and Bardufoss are good alternatives to rescue helicopters. It is a completely fair debate to have, and our position has come out clearly. In the case of the situation of army helicopters, such as, inter alia: The representative of the Rivers from the Right was in the room, and the Workers' Party wanted helicopter support for the Army on Bardufoss and has been very clear on it. Among other things, we have He's been listening to the commander. There could be used Bell helicopters, there could be new Black Hawk. The government didn't want to look at any of those possibilities. What we now see in professional military advice is that in all the options from the head of defense, there is a minimum of nine helicopters on Bardufoss and nine on Rygge. If you're going to follow the government's plan here, you're going to do the opposite of what the representative of the Elves said, that's to listen to professional advice, because when you move the helicopters from Bardufoss, you're going to build down the helicopter skills, the helicopter environment and the industry that's at Bardufoss. Then, theoretically, you get new army helicopters once far beyond the 2020s, about 2028, but have lost the skills that are needed to get it in place. That's the opposite of listening to professional advice.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1689	It must feel good to be so holy in your conviction that you are completely immune to all professional arguments. That is the way we are asked to deal with this issue in the Storing today, because that is where one determines, from what is a majority of the committee – which is a minority in the Storing – that one should establish the rescue helicopter base on Bardufoss. That's interesting. So you know a lot better than what all the professional advice goes in the direction of. You know better than the fishing organisations, you know better than the Main Rescue Center in North Norway says, you know better than the health, fire and all the other important preparedness resources have reported back. It's very special, and it's just an example, a proof that what this case is about is a political game – a political game with what has been an accident in Troms. I'll be honest, I haven't held my teeth too heavy when I've talked about these things, I've been honest in my criticism of moving the Bell helicopters. So I've said that, but I'm not just saying that in the press at home. That's what I say from Stortinget's pulpit, and that's what I say within my own party. But I take note of that, and it is with the Workers' Party's contribution that the relocation of the helicopters was decided. Nor is it that all the helicopters disappear. What should in any case be an interesting and much more important matter is how this should look in the future. It is then right, as Mr Henriksen has pointed out, that the technical advice of the Chief of Defence is very clear that we need new army helicopters, and we shall have them in place if the Progress Party gets an impact on its vision. It's quite obvious that the Army needs helicopter, and then we're not talking about Bell 412, which has done its service in many ways, but about modern army helicopters, which could also be an emergency resource in Troms. If you listen to the Workers' Party today, it seems that you do not take any responsibility at all for what you have been involved in adopting in Stortinget. I take responsibility on behalf of my party and deal with what the government has done, but now we have to look forward to it. We are going to create a new long-term defence plan, and I expect new army helicopters to be included. But I record in this debate that I have not heard a single professional argument regarding the location of the rescue helicopters in Troms. It is only about industrial policies and jobs. It's because you touch in some feelings many people have after moving the Bell helicopters. It's not supposed to let the opposition get away with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1708	The representative, Cecilie Myrseth, has spoken twice before in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1713	That the representative Amundsen should stand here and tell us that he takes responsibility, but no one else does, it amazes me on so many points. The working party has been involved and taken responsibility – yes. I'm sure that's not all I've agreed on either, but what it says is, you don't have to move a helicopter until you have new capacities in place. What do you do? You move a helicopter. Is it also taking responsibility, as the representative Amundsen sees it? It is true that the Workers' Party has pointed out solutions for how to quickly put in place the helicopter capacity that you need, but unfortunately it is not that the Workers' Party is in government, and it is not that the Workers' Party intends to buy the helicopter for itself. Proposals have been made on how to get national defence helicopters. So one last question, doesn't what a county says, right? It's not like filling just sticks a finger in the weather and says that it should be. It also depends on hearings and professional input before making political decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1724	The representative of Haarek Rivers has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1729	It is increasingly evident that in the representative Borch's military universe, the special forces are an unknown and uninteresting size. The Special Forces are actually part of the Norwegian Defense, and these helicopters are not deterred by the Army. Helicopters can contribute to the Army, including: during exercises and if the situation so requires. Nor should one exaggerate the ability of these helicopters to serve the Army. This isn't a combat helicopter, it's a simple, old helicopter that has clear limitations. Nor is it right, as the representative says, that North Norway is being raided for helicopters. There shall be three helicopters left, and agreements have been concluded with civil helicopter suppliers capable of operating with civil helicopters and supporting the Army as necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1737	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 7
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1754	At the request of the Justice Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes per party group and 5 minutes per government member. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to five rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to 3 minutes on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1761	I would like to begin by thanking the Cooperation Committee on this matter. This proposal for a representative is supported by three representatives of the Socialist Left Party, who ask the government to set up a public body to look at the entire emergency situation of increasing cruise traffic in Norway and to identify the preparedness challenges in the light of increasing cruise tourism, and to see ways to ensure that the crusades can contribute financially to the operation and development of the preparedness we have. The appointment of the Committee is promoted by the members of the Labour Party, the Right, the Progress Party and the Centre and is intended not to adopt the proposal. Security and Security Minister Ingvil Smines Tybring-Gedde has replied to the Committee that the government has a high level of attention to these issues and that similar proposals to those promoted in this matter have also come from other key actors. She has also underlined that the government intends to respond to this in the context of the Social Security Scoreboard, which is planned to be presented next year. I would also like to refer to yesterday's news reports, where the Council of State has also publicly said that such a sample will be put down to look at the preparedness aspects of the increased cruise traffic, not least with the MS Viking Sky Sea in mind. Finally, I would also like to add that it is primarily gratifying that we are experiencing an increasing tourism trip to Norway – also an increasing cruise tourism – not least to the beautiful areas of the north. People come from all over the world to look at what we have to offer by nature and beautiful areas. Increased tourism and cruise tourism in response areas is a challenge with positive signs, which we need to find practical and good ways to solve.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1774	I would like to agree with the previous speaker, who spoke about the importance of the tourism industry for Norway. We know that travel life is going to grow by over 9 pst. until 2030. It's a very strong growth of just ten years. Already 175,000 people work with travel lives in Norway. It is a district industry and a future industry. At the same time, perhaps especially cruise tourism has made visible that parts of our country are vulnerable, and that we need to set a framework for those who come to visit us. We therefore believe it is good that the government is positive to set up a separate public sample to improve the preparedness for cruise traffic in Norwegian waters. We have also noticed that this desire also comes from many key players in the industry. We do not see any particularly strong argument for waiting for the Social Security paper, which is expected to come in 2020, until such a sample is set down. The Workers' Party supports an investigation to monitor preparedness in Norwegian waters, and we believe that it is particularly important in the north and in the areas around Svalbard. We know that they've been visited a lot, and that there's a whole year-old relationship that makes rescue operations there difficult. We will also stress that we think it is very gratifying that from 2020 MS ‘Polar employment’ will receive funding to be able to have full-time preparedness in the waters around Svalbard. However, we are sceptical that the investigation should include a possible basis of responsibility for the shipping companies operating in Norwegian waters, and how they should contribute in practical and economic terms. We support the intention of the proposal, but together with the Central Party, we promote a separate proposal, which reads: ‘The government is asking the government to set up a public sample to review the emergency situation for increasing cruise traffic in Norwegian waters. The aim of the investigation shall be to identify any weaknesses in the current system and to propose measures to improve preparedness in the light of the increasing cruise tourism potential for Norwegian waters.’» I bring this up with the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1794	The representative of Åsunn Lyngedal has drawn up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1799	The centre party believes that we need a good and safe preparedness throughout Norway, and we would like to thank the proposers for raising an important theme for the Stortinget. Cruise traffic represents a major response challenge. In recent years there has been a huge increase in the number of tourists travelling on cruise ships in Norwegian waters. There is little evidence to suggest that this increase will decrease, but on the contrary it will continue, which the previous speaker was talking about. In recent years, we've gone from over 1,000 to 2,150 hits a year. This represents an increase from 100,000 to nearly 800,000 cruise tourists each year. There are 800,000 human lives that we are responsible for. Mostly they travel safely on Norwegian seas and fjords, but if the accident is first out, it may have fatal consequences. We got to know that in March, when MS “Viking Sky” got an engine failure in Hustadvika. It was a very serious accident that put the rescue services and the municipal emergency room to the test. Fortunately, human life did not lose this time, but there was a fine balance between life and total disaster that has brought on the ground a major discussion of preparedness related to the extensive cruise tourism that comes in addition to all other activity in Norwegian waters. The Central Party considers that there is a need for a review of the emergency situation of increasing cruise traffic in Norwegian waters. In the position of the Judicial Committee, we propose to set up a public body to investigate the current emergency response system and to identify any weaknesses and needs for action. We believe that such a sample must identify the extent to which today's preparedness meets the needs of and will receive cruise traffic in the future, and the way in which responsibility is allocated. There are many actors who can be involved in an emergency, both state preparedness, municipal action, non-governmental organisations and the shipping companies themselves. In the event of a major accident involving cruise ships, both emergency rescue and first- and second-line standby on land may be required for the care of injured and undamaged persons. We believe that an investigation has to look at all sides of this. We are pleased that the government announced Friday evening that such a selection would come into place. That is why we also assume that the parties to the government will vote in favour of our proposal in the case, which has been on the table since the decision of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights was taken on 26 November.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1812	The background to this proposal is, of course, the dramatic situation of the ‘Viking Sky’ accident in March 2019, to which several representatives have referred. What we live on TV so spin out there, almost minute by minute, shows the importance of having a good and standing readiness in Norway. I will venture to the assertion that we were near a disaster almost of the "Titanic" dimensions this stormy day outside Hustadvika. The MS ‘Viking Sky’ was the sixth passenger ship to operate along the Norwegian coast only during the last year. 114 ships have been stopped on the coast since 2017. At the same time, we see a sharp increase in cruise tourism in Norwegian waters. These are waters that offer harsh weather conditions, and e.g. in the case of Svalbard, also ice and cold. In 2018, around 46 000 international cruise passengers arrived at Svalbard. Ships with passenger numbers of 5000 to 6000 are now arriving. Think about it. In rumjula 2018, a trawler with 14 people crashed on board the Hinlopfen north of Svalbard. With the Employment Man's two helicopters, you just managed to save these in a tough operation. I've been a lot in these areas, in all sorts of weather, and I've been on cruise boats, sailboats, on land and on the ice there. I almost can't think about what had happened if a cruise boat had a crash in these areas. That thought scares me. At present, it is not well enough to identify how Norway is equipped to be prepared for increased cruise tourism. As more and more ships with more and more passengers enter vulnerable areas, a review is needed to look at possible improvements in preparedness. In the past, there have been just major accidents that have led to improvements in maritime safety. Then we have to use the occasion after the Viking Sky accident to review the preparedness and look at measures that can improve it. Today, there is legislation from the International Marine Organization, the IMO, which is subject to the UN. Some guidelines have been developed for the standby of passenger ships operating in areas that are far from SAR, i.e. ‘Search and Rescue’ facilities. However, there is a lack of regulation of the responsibility of passenger ships to contribute to the standing preparedness of the countries where they sail. The so-called polar code regulates something, but not enough. A central dimension of the proposed review should, in the SV’s view, be the responsibility of the shipping companies. Shipowners operating in Norwegian waters are dependent on Norwegian preparedness. They should also contribute to its development and maintenance. In Antarctica and partly around Svalbard, there are already some schemes that contribute to this. Dispatch ships must provide a certain financial guarantee in order to be authorised to operate. It should be natural that an investigation into such a lucrative industry in the growth of the cruise industry should contribute more to funds or guarantees, insurance, to an economic responsibility in the event of accidents. But not only that – if you're going to have a standing, high level of preparedness, you're not going to get away with high costs. That's actually what's going to happen if there's a loss. We need a standing readiness that's high. If you think about the number of tourists landed in the Viking Sky accident, there were not so many, and it was just off our coast, where we had some access to helicopters. It's in storms and swirls about just helicopters that can be used. So such a standing readiness is very expensive. Therefore, our proposal is to look at some kind of Arctic cruise fee, perhaps – we are open to all solutions to increase preparedness, to finance a large, standing readiness. It is very important for me to say that the SV's intention is not to rock the obligation to assist in emergency situations. It's stuck. Then I will address the proposal that SV has promoted. We will subsidize the Centre Party and the Labour Party's proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1827	The representative Arne Nävra has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1832	The question of a separate investigation to assess the emergency situation of increasing cruise traffic is important. I agree with everyone who's been up on this pulpit before me, at that point, so here's the question of a separate assessment. This was not least updated by the event with MS «Viking Sky», but at the same time I must stress that the concerns are not new, unfortunately. The Government has recently concluded that a selection should be set up to assess maritime safety and preparedness challenges related to just cruise traffic in Norwegian waters and adjacent sea areas. The selection shall describe current cruise traffic and outline future developments. Based on such monitoring, the sample shall discuss the contingency challenges posed by cruise traffic and identify any weaknesses in the current system. The Committee shall also focus on prevention and risk reduction measures and discuss the objectives we can set for an adequate level of preparedness. I'm concerned that this is going to be an investigation that gives us more knowledge. There shall be no evaluation of the Viking Sky incident. That evaluation shall be carried out by the Commission of the Sea and by the DSB. We want to look forward, not backward. The event outside Hustadvika with MS «Viking Sky» March 23, 2019 was very serious. It is serious when a cruise ship with more than 1300 passengers operates towards land without engine power in strong onshore wind and rough seas. The event was close to having disastrous consequences. We have also seen other incidents with cruise ships that could have very serious consequences. Afterwards, several teams expressed the need for an investigation on safety and preparedness related to cruise traffic along the Norwegian coast and in northern sea areas, including Svalbard. Demand has come from industry itself, stakeholder organisations, rescue service actors and not least from academia. Norway is a unique Arctic coastal country well suited for cruise traffic. The archipelago, the fjords, the northern lights and an arctic climate in the north make us very attractive. The cruise industry provides income and jobs and tourists experience the world's most beautiful nature. At the same time, we have a hard and hard coast. Climatic conditions, long distances and darkness give rise to special challenges the further north you get. Cruise traffic in our waters has increased in recent years, and growth is expected to continue. Melting seas and warmer seas have also led to greater activity in polar regions, and new ship routes are being assessed as ice melting takes place. Increased maritime activity increases the risk of accidents, and cruise ships with many passengers present a particular challenge. Norway not only has coastal preparedness obligations, but also in remote seas in the Barents Sea and in the Arctic Ocean. At the same time, increased traffic in northern sea areas will raise questions of principle relating to the expectations of preparedness and the responsibility of each operator for its own safety. I want to be clear that this government is not going to open up a debate on self-payment for rescue. It was with some wonder that I registered that the representative Nävra ordered the cruise industry to pay for its own rescue. In the case of economic contributions from the industry, the government's position is that the Norwegian State does not charge to save human lives. The publicly organised rescue service in Norway is and shall be a common good. It has been important every year that someone in need does not hesitate to notify the rescue services. Adherence to self-payments also opens up to other issues — whether other groups also pay for their collateral. At the same time, it is evident that the cruise industry itself has a significant responsibility for its own safety and preparedness. What each individual does for his own safety and preparedness will always be important. At sea it is absolutely vital. Therefore, self-responsiveness and responsibility for one's own safety must always come first. It must be a pre-requisite that the actors themselves take action to prevent and deal with any accident, and there is a significant responsibility on the part of each shipper, shipowner and owner. I will end by stressing that the government is taking the emergency response seriously. The government has, among other things: entered to establish a new rescue helicopter base in Tromsø and to strengthen communication capabilities with long-range radio in the Arctic. This proposal for a representative has already been dealt with and decided by the government. Let me welcome the opposition after.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1849	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1854	Now I'm not going to rely on who was first and last, and when the government started its proposal to get a public sample. But I call it a never so small saying that we've breathed the government into the neck of this. I would like to welcome you to the government – very well. I record that the Council of State and the SV have the same assessment of the severity of the situation around MS «Viking Sky» and that the need for an investigation and a review is great. Where we separate layers, there's enough about the possibility that the industry can contribute to the sea. They're already doing it right now, I'm counting on the Council of State to be aware of it. Both in the Arctic and in Antarctica, the industry provides guarantees for «rescue operations». So don't forget it – basically we do. The question to the Council of State is whether, in order to increase the level of preparedness, she can imagine a certain financial contribution from the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1864	I am very pleased that SV agrees with the government that we should do this action. I also fully agree that it is not a challenge with increased activity, but it is a challenge what the result of the increased activity of the cruise industry can be. We already saw with MS «Viking Sky», which was probably an «eye opener» for most people, what kind of consequences such an event could have. Now we've decided to put down a sample that we're going to give a mandate. As for what they are going to go through in their mandate, I have to get back to Stortinget with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1871	I thank you for the answer, but the Council of State did not entirely answer whether she was aware that there were actually guarantee schemes in both the north and the south. Both in Antarctica and in the Arctic there are. The Svalbard Regulation now provides that, for example: despatch cruise must provide guarantees around Svalbard. But my point is that we have two Super Pumas stationed in Longyearbyen. They just managed to save 14 people in Hinlaufen on hanging hair. I've been in there sailing, in a small sailboat, and I've been thrown here and there – I know what a storm is in a boat, no matter how big the boat is. You don't have nubbeshanse to save what had to happen north of Svalbard with two Super Pumas. They don't have a chance. So the question is what can the Council of State think of measures to increase the standing preparedness and finance the increasing standing preparedness? It is a very important question that I think should be included in the mandate of the sample.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1876	We have just had a review of the previous Document 8 proposal, where we went through the increased preparedness of this government – the seventh rescue base and HF coverage to the north. It's also mentioned two Super Puma helicopters, they were also this government that put in. It was a big one and a small one, but now it's two big ones. We have also received 12 months of sailing time on MS ‘Polar employment’ with the help of Stortinget, so thank you for that. Of course, we are happy about that. The representative also refers to the IMO and the Polar Code that have functional requirements. They're also pretty interesting. We also see that the 72 hours you have to deal with on your own after an accident has occurred do not last. What the mandate is, and what the selection is actually going to do, we have to come back to once the mandate has been established, but I take the input from the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1883	After the “Viking Sky” accident, many were very relieved that things were going so well, but there were also many who were very concerned that this could happen further north, because the northern regions have a much worse preparedness along the coast than South Norway has. Among other things, there were two professors from NTNU who said that ‘most of the Viking Sky ships would have died if they were grounded, because of the extreme weather, the movements of the ship, high heels and low evacuation speed’ – that is, if this had happened further north than it did. The government has weakened helicopter preparedness and preparedness in the north in general, in particular by moving Bell helicopters southwards. We've just discussed a new rescue helicopter base. It's in place at the earliest in 2022. What are the consequences if we get an event like "Viking Sky" before that, in North Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1890	It's just the recognition that we have increased activity along our coast and not least on land, which means that we want to establish a seventh rescue base. It is also one of the reasons why we want to look at the kind of prevention we can take by looking at the overall preparedness we have in Norway for the cruise industry. That is why we now want to put down a sample that can go through prevention measures and how the distribution of responsibilities is actually, and can be. It is important that owners, shipowners and skippers are responsible for their own crew and for their own passengers.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1895	It is good that a 7th rescue helicopter base is working on, although there is disagreement about where it should be located, as we saw in the previous case. I wonder if the Minister of Emergency Service has planned to put in place some temporary measures to improve the preparedness for cruise traffic in North Norway in the light of the massive response that has been, that it would have been fatal if it had happened there, for the base is not in place until within two years.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1902	I do not initially agree with the representative. The rescue helicopter capacity in the north in the event of a similar accident would be good. It will be better with a seventh rescue base in Tromsø, but we also saw off the coast in connection with MS Viking Sky that we picked up civil helicopters and helicopters from the petroleum industry. We also had a rescue helicopter that was picked up from Denmark, which was on the Sun, and we had two rescue helicopters that were ready in Sweden to be picked up in case there was going to be another breakdown. What's important here is that we have to look at the cruise industry's own preparedness to prevent, so that these kinds of events actually don't occur. It's simpler and much cheaper for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1909	When this case was examined by the Judicial Committee, the Right Party Government had still not decided to set up a selection to watch cruise traffic. We did not know until Friday. That means that the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left do not support the proposal for such a selection in today's position. But now that there's a selection – the government says they want to put it down – the government council will then encourage the government parties in the Stortningen to vote for proposal No. 1 in this case, so that we get a majority decision in the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1916	I think that the representatives of big business are free to do what their committees and they themselves have agreed between themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1921	Then the cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1928	My colleague, Arne Nävra, has explained the basic background to SV's proposal, so I'm not going to pursue that very much, but it's the supplement that SV has in this case, that the shipping industry should consider whether it's possible that they can also have a responsibility in their own preparedness, I want to address. The basic principle in Norway is – quite correctly, as the minister also says – that those in need will get help anyway, without paying, and I kept saying whatever they did. We're using that principle, for example. When we save people from car accidents. Even though people have run in the filling, they get help without paying. This principle is absolutely essential. There's an equality dimension here -- people are going to get help no matter what wallet they have. There is also a humanitarian principle here – that aid should be made available on a completely neutral and impartial basis. That's why it's not right, as the minister says, that SV allows for self-payment in case of rescue – we don't. We're just behind this sacred principle that everyone should get help anyway. But we ask in this proposal that we can assess exemptions from or additions to this provision, precisely because this industry has resources and capacity to do its own preparedness somewhat better. It is not at all rocking by the basic principle. I'll almost say the opposite, it'll strengthen it. As Mr Nävra has explained, there are already exceptions to this principle. The oil industry has it, they have a readiness that they themselves are involved in and that they cooperate with the state about. We also have systems in Norway within the court where claims can be made for people who have acted negligently. Just because the cruise industry is so economically strong, we should consider whether they should have some responsibility, including financial responsibility, for their own preparedness. This does not mean that they have to pay for their own rescue, because it is something quite different – this is about giving the cruise industry an opportunity to also use this as a competitive advantage, to say: Our ships are safe, we have taken them and those measures. So the industry should really applaud this. The fact that they will not, to those degrees, have some responsibility for their own preparedness, is probably also contrary to people's sense of justice. Here, there are quite a number of billionaires who don't pay a lot of taxes either, who don't get away with any large rescue operations. Our proposal here is not about deviating from the basic principle, it's about an outstretched hand to the industry so that they can strengthen themselves in those kinds of situations.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1940	I would just like to stress once again what my colleague, the representative Eide, came up with. It is not at all appropriate for SV to rock in the event of emergency and rescue at sea. It is enshrined in international legislation, such as the SOLAS Convention, The Safety of Life at Sea. That obligation is irrefutable, and I ask that this not be questioned when the SV's position is quoted in this case. There should never be any doubt about it. Then I'll brag a little bit of the council. I think it's great that she shows such an open attitude to recording. Not only has she made a proposal or at least signaled the creation of such a sample as SV has proposed, she also says she should include these constructive proposals. She probably didn't say constructive, but at least the proposals SV talked about in the string change here, if one could consider thinking a little over an ever-small period of time, this with the funding. I think it should be assessed and included, because it's just the way we can fund a higher preparedness. I don't think it's possible to have a really bigger preparedness through a government budget. Then the council must have a hard fight in government – or the new government will have a hard fight. I think we have to think that for an industry that we see growing so strongly – it is a huge growth – this should really be included in the assessment, especially in view of the vulnerable northern areas. So you could say, OK, the estimate from the sample is that no, this isn't currently set up against many other reasons. Well, at least it is important to consider seriously whether or not the mandate should have been extended to assess it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1947	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1964	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e1983	My companion Rolf Jacobsen has written a lot of great poems, and the end of one of the great poems I want to start the interview with today. It's like this: ‘Look to the north. More often. It's a long way from this country. Most of it is north.’ One of the amazing things about Norway is that we've had a joint project, and that we're going to build the whole country, all of Norway – from Vardø in the northeast to Lindesnes in the south, from the stormy city to the quiet forests of Trysil in the east. Take, for example: Nord-Norway, from Bindal to the south on the border of the Nord-Trøndelag to Pasvik, which borders on Russia – it is a huge area. But we've had a community project where we build societies where we build land. We've used resources and power in areas that have had special challenges. We've seen each other and raised each other. Norway's identity and our success are that we have taken advantage of our country's opportunities, in all parts of Norway. North Norway may have had some of the most dramatic consequences some parts of the country got during World War II, and Finnmark was burned down. You decided after World War II to rebuild it. It wasn't the business-economic calculations that were there, it was a social project. They wanted to build land, and they thought it strategically important that it should live in all parts of the country. When we discuss district policy, and when we discuss measures for North Norway, it is often discussed as a cost item. It's a basic misunderstanding. You forget it's an investment. Because it's just an investment it is. The unique thing about North Norway is often produced as a problem – that it is a problem that people live so scattered, that they live in the small islands, at the heart of the fjords or at the tip of the ocean. It's not a problem, it's a prerequisite for making use of the opportunities of the amazing part of the country. It is a prerequisite for asserting sovereignty, a prerequisite for preparedness and readiness of our country, a prerequisite for fishing, aquaculture, tourism and value creation along the whole coast that people live along the coast and throughout the country. North Norway is a part of the country with enormous resources, people with great standing-on-will and local pride. But if we are to exploit the resources, exploit the opportunities and take people seriously, the state and the public sector cannot weaken their presence, their offers. We've got to bet on the county, big and small. And we need a policy adapted to the opportunities and challenges faced by the continent. It is equally important that the ambulance comes whether you live in Berlevåg, or you live in Bergen. It's just as important that the police come when you need it, whether you live in Helgeland, or you live on Nordstrand. It is as important to invest in the farming industry in Bindal as it is to invest in the transport and service industries in Groruddalen. We need both. We need to invest and develop in all parts of the country, and it's as important that the basic public services exist in Alta, as they are in Arendal. The Norwegian political project has been that we have actively used the policy to develop the whole of Norway, not to liquidate parts of Norway. The three northernmost counties have approx. 35 pst. of our land area, and 60 pst. of our sea area is on the outside of the three counties. The land and sea areas have enormous natural resources, unique fishing resources, eternal fishing resources. There are fishermen with a lot of local knowledge and generations of experience. The enormous sea areas are a prerequisite for the farming industry – a very important industry for the country. The three counties have a mass of renewable energy – wind power, but not least hydropower – that has provided the basis for world-class power-intensive industries. We have large mineral resources and a growing mineral industry. There are large oil and gas resources on the Norwegian base outside the three counties, and we have a large tourist industry because of the great nature and good people. North Norway is a part of the country with great resources and great opportunities. What is so discouraging when we read about population development in North Norway is that Nordic states have set a new negative record, with 702 inhabitants less in one quarter. Unfortunately, the decline in the population is not special to Northern Ireland. We've had population decline in Finnmark, we've had population decline in Troms, and we've had population decline in Northern Ireland. So we've had a population decline in all three northern states. Changes in moving patterns do not happen overnight, but when we look at the political grips that the government has taken, it creates new problems and reinforces problems. For the government has systematically centralised – whether it's police, whether it's ambulance, whether it's Nav, whether there's district court, whether there's tax office, as the government decided last week. Let me start with the map track network. It's a great success story. Prime Minister Per Away from the Central Party and Håkon Kyllingmark, who was Minister of Transport from the Right, had a vision of expanding the short-distance network throughout the country. You saw that we had special remotes, you had to have small airports, and you made a choice: you built it out. It's served Norway well. Due to today’s government’s fiscal policy since 2016, the offer on the Norwegian short-distance network has become worse every year – more expensive and worse. We in the Center Party have an alternative, because we have to bet on the Short Path Network. It was a forward-looking policy of Chickenland and The Away pointed out in the 1960s. We must have lower fees and a charging policy adapted to what we have in Norway. Take education. At the same time, in 1968, it was decided to build a university in Tromsø – a very successful and decisive effort to build the district. Now what do we experience? They set up a Nordic university, but now they're going to set up educational institutions. You drop out of high school at Nesna, and you drop out of nursing school, even if you need more teachers and more nurses. One forgets to see the local reality and builds up educational provision. Fortunately, there is also an alternative. If we get power and responsibility in 2021, we're going to restore Nesna, and we're going to build new nursing education, so it's possible to take education in different parts of the fantastic North Norway region. Take natural resources. As I said in the city: North Norway is a part of the country rich in natural resources, but what are the proposals made by the government? The change in power plant taxation will hit the three northernmost states vigorously. There is a discussion about a new State quota bank in the fishing industry. Which counties will lose most of it? Of course, there are the three northernmost states, which will lose resources, lose income and lose the benefits they have of having so much natural wealth. Then to the defence policy. What happened there? They've laid down Andeya Air Station and moved the Bell Helicopters. It can be seen that there has been a great centralisation within the police. In the case of state jobs, the majority of the Nordic municipalities have lost large, large-scale government jobs. And in the last few weeks, we've all been witnessing the unrest around the ambulance planes. That turmoil has been there for years. When we took up that discussion this summer, State Council Bent Höie said that we did it for electoral reasons. But we did it based on the fact that there were problems with the preparedness. We have a government that has forgotten to listen to those who live in the three Northern Norwegian states. We have not least seen that in the discussion about the coercion of Finnmark and Troms, there 87 pst. The population said that they would remain as their own state. The government ignores, overruns, and forgets to listen. There is a need for a new political course, a new political force that is willing to invest in this part of the country. Just as the government has said, it wants to spend 66 billion dollars. On urban growth agreements, the same will and strength should be given to develop District Norway, Building Norway, North Norway, and to see the opportunities that exist in that part of the country and in all parts of the country. The policy of centralisation that is now being pursued creates greater challenges and greater problems, but it does not solve the challenges and unlock the opportunities that Nord-Norway has. My challenge to Prime Minister Erna Solberg is: does she see with concern that there is a decline in the population of the three northern states? Does she think it is worrying that in the last quarter, Nordic countries have set a new negative record in absolute terms in terms of depopulation and population decline? I personally called the researchers in the SSB to see if that's right, what's on the NRK. It was confirmed that unfortunately this was the case in Northern Ireland last quarter. Does the Prime Minister think this is a problem, or does she not? I hope the Prime Minister thinks this is a problem. And if the Prime Minister finds it a problem that three such important states have a decline in population, what is the political grip that the Prime Minister will implement? What are the new powerful grips to be taken by the Norwegian Government? Or is it that the Prime Minister does not have visions and goals for the northernmost part of the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e2024	Thank you to the interpellant for giving us an opportunity to discuss the regional district policy of the future, not least the situation in North Norway and the development challenges. The government has submitted a district message. It is now under treatment in Stortinget. It describes the good development and challenges facing districts and the long-term challenges facing them. There are some heavy trends that shape the framework for sustainable district policy. Specialisation, digitisation, ageing and better economic times in Europe challenge today's work and labour supply. The companies are labour-intensive locally. At the same time, there are many older people, and soon we will need a lot more people in the care sector. The trends challenge the whole country, but hit District Norway first. If we are to have sustainable municipalities and communities, people must have a job to go to. We then need to facilitate the competitiveness of Nordic companies, in order to invest and create jobs and new businesses. We've reduced taxes and taxes by 25 billion. kr to make the entire Norwegian industry more profitable. We've lowered the property tax, which gives Norwegian owners disadvantages compared to foreign ownership. We have removed the inheritance fee. All of this contributes to the security of district capital and rural development. In the EU, the government has had a positive impact on reducing the employer’s fee for transport and energy companies in the districts, and we have simplified the daily life of Norwegian companies for 15 billion. kr. It is not that what is good policy for Norway is not good district policy. On the contrary, those parts of the country that are most dependent on having good framework conditions for this, those that have other disadvantages, such as: Transport and distance disadvantages. Only in 2018 40,000 new private jobs were created in Norway. Several private jobs mean increased tax revenues, which can be used again for better schools, for more care in the care of the elderly, and also for more measures to stimulate growth in the districts. For this reason, Norway has been in favour of business setting up in districts. We gave Nussir concession in Kvalsund, so we start off with mineral extraction. We agreed to continue over 100 years of industrial history with continued operations at the South Warener mine. And we've approved new areas for aquaculture in Lenvik. If business in the north is to succeed, it must be based on the advantages you have – just as the interpellant said – the great sea, the great opportunities. Few places in the world are better suited to fishing and farming than in North Norway, and from the government's point of view, we are facilitating sustainable growth in the farming industry. Since 2017, municipalities and county councils in Northern Norway have received nearly 1.4 billion. kr from the Aquaculture Fund. It's money that benefits the inhabitants. The profitability is good. There are more people working in North Norway with fish, farming and fishing now than ever since 2008. But in smaller communities there may not be a job for everyone. Maybe it's just work for Mom, while Dad has to commute. That is why the focus on transport is also good district policy, because it binds the labour market together. At the same time, businesses get goods faster and cheaper to the market. In the national transport plan, the government proposes to spend 40 billion. SEK for investment projects in North Norway from 2018 to 2029. In Northern Norway, projects have been completed on E6, rv. 77 and Rv. 80, in addition to the port of Tromsø in Breivika. In 2018, several projects were opened on the route E6 Narvik–Alta, which have helped to cut the road by more than four miles. In 2019 it is invested in E6 on Helgeland, in a new bridge on E6 over Tanaelva and in E69 Skarvbergtunnelen. Jobs must be created, but they must also be filled with the labour required by today's jobs. 50 years ago only had 7 pst. higher education. Now there's more than one in three people. In the most central regions of the country, almost half of their education is higher. This is why we have facilitated decentralised education to improve access to competences locally and regionally. In 2019 and 2020 it is granted over 90 million. kr for flexible study and further training. The funds shall include, inter alia: go to study facilities available outside the permanent campuses, and the higher education, the more available in the districts. In addition, the government has allocated funds from 2014 to approx. 550 study places at Nord universitet and the University of Tromsø. The regional reform strengthens the responsibility of the county authorities for the policy of competence because it is best known regionally what it takes to unlock the potential of local business. We know that the results are weak in primary and secondary education, especially in North Norway. North Norway is the country that has had the greatest improvement in the implementation of secondary education, yet it still has the highest rates of non-response. That's why it's important to get involved. In both 2006 and 2007, there were fewer inhabitants in North Norway. Over the years, there has been growth up to this year. From this government took over, until the end of 2018 there have been over 8 000 more inhabitants in North Norway. One reason for the decrease this year is that there will be fewer immigrants than a few years ago. The enlargements in the EU in 2004 gave North Norway access to new labour. Higher oil prices gave great investment, but labour immigration and the oil boom did not provide a lasting solution. It posed a problem. We cannot anticipate a future in which exceptional oil prices and labour immigration are to create jobs and meet skills needs. The EEA Agreement may be the main instrument for export companies, not least in North Norway. Nordland is one of Norway’s largest export countries. An almost total industry in North Norway warns against notifying Norway out of the EEA. In the lake is the corner stone company Alcoa. Europe is their major trading partner. Europe also has a large market in aquaculture and fisheries. Working life in North Norway needs good and predictable framework conditions. It's important if we're to ensure growth in North Norway in the future as well. Placing the EEA Agreement into play is to gamble with tens of thousands of jobs in North Norway. The government is betting on North Norway. There have been several state posts in all the Nordic states since we took over. We have strengthened preparedness in the northern regions. The Director of the Main Rescue Centre shall be in Bodø. We've established the Centers for Oil Protection and Marine Environment in Lofoten. We've strengthened the health system in the north. We have arranged for the construction of new hospitals in Kirkenes, Narvik and Hammerfest. We're creating 38 new tour positions for doctors, all of which are to be added to North Norway. Economic growth in northern Norway is also higher than the national average, and unemployment is lower in northern Norway than in Oslo. But it is thus challenges related to population development that make some people feel both uncertain and worried. Fewer children are born in Norway, also in North Norway. Low birth rates are first noticed in small places. The birth surplus in North Norway is about 125 to even the third quarter of 2019, compared with approx. 1 200 in 2009. Low birth rates are one reason why the government has an active policy for families with children in general and for those with low incomes in particular. Government parties have been engaged in addressing the challenges facing District Norway. I hope today's debate will also give us some answers on what the opposition is thinking about how to meet the big trends that challenge yesterday's solutions. The shortage of labour – are we going to solve it with several EEA citizens coming here for short-term work? On Agenda North Norway, I met more young people. They said that they were not allowed to paint the country's territory, but they highlighted the good stories. When I meet business operators in North Norway, they're in agreement on what's going on to ensure a sustainable north. They point to the importance of stable framework conditions and that we are working on how to get rid of the challenges of distance problems. I have outlined a little bit of how we meet developments to create jobs and ensure access to skilled labour: with measures to create new, greener and sustainable jobs, with investments in new transport solutions, with a tax and tax policy that stimulates new growth, not least by ensuring that businesses can participate in the European market, and with a knowledge policy that raises children and young people – from primary school to university. All of this is an important element of a future-oriented district policy that meets the challenges that the future actually faces. I'm curious if the opposition agrees with the description of reality, and not least to hear more than the speeches, hear about the concrete measures that can do something about the root causes of the challenges we see today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e2064	When I hear Prime Minister Erna Solberg, she doesn't seem to be at all worried about the numbers we see from the three northernmost states this year – the SSB confirms that they've never experienced any quarter greater deportation than they've experienced in the last quarter, i.e., with minus 702 inhabitants in Northern Ireland. It's especially in the West and Helgeland you have the biggest rashes. You can also see, when you look at government policy, that it has hit both Helgeland and the Western Sea particularly hard – so that politics works. So Prime Minister Erna Solberg says it's important to think about how to have public jobs in the future. Then it's okay to look at the facts a little bit. The number of government jobs from 2016 to 2018 has increased by 2,603 annual works, i.e. 2,603 more annual works over the two years. Let's then look at the distribution of those annual works, because there is clearly a justification from the prime minister for centralization. In Finnmark, 15 municipalities have lost state jobs over the two years, 3 municipalities have increased the number of state jobs – that is classical centralisation. Of course, it affects people when 15 municipalities have lost and 3 have got more. In Troms, 13 municipalities have lost state jobs, 6 have increased. Of course, it creates centralization when 13 municipalities lose and 6 get more. Take Nordland, which is the state that has been most hit now: How many municipalities have lost state jobs there? 26 municipalities have lost state jobs, and 9 municipalities have increased. When you look at those numbers, the classic negative centralization government gets with the different reforms. The recipe is the same, whether it is within Nav, police, property rights or tax – which we saw on Friday will also lead to centralisation. The figures are crystal clear: many of the small and medium-sized municipalities in Troms, Finnmark and Nordland are the major losers. Centralisation generates centralisation. It may sound nice to say that we need to streamline the public sector, but the number of government employees has increased, it's just that they're centralised. It must be the Prime Minister's major challenge also when she talks about the transport challenges in North Norway, for what has been done in the transport sector? Well, you have increased costs. Unøe, who is the heavy player, has cut off its route offer thanks to the government's negative charging policy, and the transport tax has increased from 8 p.m. to 12 pst. The Prime Minister also promised that there were many commuters, but what has been done with the commuting deduction? You've cut the commuting discount, which has hit long commuters in particular. The specific measures taken to increase population growth, for example: with higher child welfare in Finnmark and Nord-Troms, have been removed. The centralisation implemented by the government is quite systematic.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e2083	Of course, I'm concerned about evolution. I am concerned that we should have a balanced development in all parts of Norway. It's important, also to be able to use our resources. But to be absolutely honest, I don't think the representative of the Battle of Vedum is close to talking about the fundamental challenges that actually contribute to this change. We're not close to talking about the ageing that's happened in these years -- it's already fewer in fertility age living here. In the case of education: if one cannot get a job of competence in the municipality where one is, that means that one is moving elsewhere. Then I think it's better for a mover to Alta, Hammerfest or Kirkenes in Finnmark than for one to move to Oslo. That's why I'm concerned that we have robust, good professional environments, places that can employ people with good education in those areas, so that we keep the balance between our parts of the country. Violence against Vedum is not close to talking about what he started talking about, the need to use the large resources, because then it is industrial policy that is important. This is the basis for lower taxes and taxes. Then it's to help reduce distance costs and invest in knowledge and skills among the things that are most important in the future, to help use all the opportunities that lie in the north, and to reverse the growth and development we've seen. Yes, it will in the future be that there will be fewer state jobs in some places when we apply new technology. This is what we do to ensure that we have room to grow the municipal economy and to make the welfare systems, in the form of better care for the elderly, grow, and the ability to have labour that can contribute to it. It's a transformation all governments in the future should do. I think it is important to say that competition for labour, especially in the north, is so great that we need to focus on the welfare aspects of municipalities – not for state bureaucracy, but for municipalities – and for business, so that they can access labour in the future, to create innovation and innovation and to use resources in the future. I'm optimistic on North Norway's behalf, precisely because they have such a large resource base, they have so many opportunities. What we have to do is make sure that we actually focus on the areas where you can grow in the north, which are about adding more knowledge and skills to the industries you have, which help to make them attractive to people who want to get there and work, and who don't help to emulate today's structures, but who actually help to exploit the growth power and the growth potential. So good industrial policy, good transport policy, must be done by ensuring that we have competence in these parts of the country, and we do something about that. So I think that with the concern that the representative adds here, it's a little strange if you think that this would be solved if we hadn't streamlined e.g.. the police structure or in the case of some small public sector changes, that it had stopped the whole development. It's something completely different, heavier and dynamic. I am delighted to hear the Central Party's answers to the major challenges instead of their dream of the 1960s. It was quite prominent today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e2098	I would first like to thank Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum, who has raised this matter in Stortinget. I agree: I am not exactly reassured by the answer given to the Assembly by the Prime Minister. The impression is that you try to minimize it by ramming up what you've been trying to do. There's no doubt that there's a crisis, what we're now seeing happen in North Norway. This is clearly confirmed by the state politicians, who call for a high level of caution. I hope that both this Chamber and the Prime Minister and the Government are taking it seriously. In three months, Nordland, my home country, has lost 702 inhabitants. It's actually eight people a day. County Councillor Tomas Norvoll, took up the concept of ‘crisis’ and said to VG: ‘These figures are a full crisis. This is simply shocking. This is a difficult-to-stand trend. I know Tomas Norvoll well. When he uses these words, you should listen. This year, 36 out of 44 municipalities in the Nordic region are losing population, showing the numbers from the SSB. As Northern Ireland lost over 700 inhabitants, over 4,000 new inhabitants were compared to the localities of Oslo and Akershus in July, August, and September. The SSB says that in the last 20 years, no state has had a major negative population growth in one quarter. What reinforces this in the negative direction is that many of those who leave, unfortunately, are young people. It's not like the Workers' Party is trying to paint black. No, what we're doing is taking it seriously, and I also think the government should do that. But what can this assembly and the government do? Well, the quickest thing they've ever done is they've had the opportunity for the last few months. It would have been to do something about the economy of the states and the municipalities. Both of these are important development actors who are involved in generating growth, but everyone understands that when Nordland states alone get 486 million. kr less to offer to the inhabitants and to drive business development, it is in the wrong direction. When the county councils no longer receive regional development funds, it is wrong medicine in my opinion and in the view of the Workers' Party. Under Prime Minister Solberg, the municipal sector actually receives the worst real growth in 15 years. Northern and Northern Norway have all the opportunities to grow and become an attractive part of the country, but a decisive factor is more jobs. Yes, business is doing pretty well today, and there's no doubt that there's great potential in the future if you use natural resources in your own country, whether it's from the sea, like fish, oil and gas, or there's wind power and minerals. But then it has to be taken into account, so that you get an increase in the processing of these resources locally, and not least that you get to keep the values locally, whether we're talking about hydropower, fish, minerals or oil and gas. At least it is not the right policy when the state is going to move the values from municipalities and counties, as we now see is proposed by the power tax committee, or when they don't do what everyone thought would happen – landing oil and gas, which we know would give effect fairly quickly. No, the Workers' Party agrees with the Center Party. The county needs a new political course that will bet on North Norway. It's not just useful to frame good things – you have to see the whole thing. The Labour Party wants to use the whole country. This is a good example of the fact that an old, good slogan from the Workers’ Party – city and country, hand in hand – can be demonstrated by real politics. As I said, that part of the country is asking for the use of resources. Then it has to be made right for it. I registered that the Prime Minister mentioned the commuters in his post. I want to repeat it: see what you've done with the commuting scheme – it's an important factor for the one who's going to have job number two.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e2120	As a proud finnmarking, it is clear that I am looking at the deportation from the three northernmost states with concern. The country part is full of opportunities, full of proud inhabitants and full of jobs. Unfortunately, there have been so good times in North Norway in recent years that we haven't had enough people for all the jobs we have there north. It makes it even more worrying that so many people choose to leave the country. There is probably no exact reason why this is so, but I understand that the representative of Battle Violence Vedum wants to repeat in the infinitesimal that the government is engaged in centralization, even if that is not true. In fact, in North Norway, we have many of the same challenges as North Sweden. According to an article at No.no this day, the only difference between us and our neighboring country is that we spend 11.5 billion. kr more in North Norway than is used in Sweden in its northernmost part of the country. Yet, there are the same challenges. Sweden also receives some funding from the EU for its districts, such as Nord-Sverige, then 11.5 billion. kr is probably not exactly accurate. The only thing that proves is that by EU membership we can get even more money for our part of the country. You may take note of this by the representative, Mr Vedum. Nevertheless, population decline is occurring at a time when we are moving record jobs out of the capital, at a time when municipalities are receiving record transfers from the state, and at a time when the government has invested heavily in North Norway, through road construction, through, among other things. benefits for teachers related to the action zone, by shifting more power to Nordic municipalities and regions and a lot more, which was also addressed by the Prime Minister. The centre party probably disagrees with me on what should be done to strengthen the continent. It's strictly natural, all the time we come from different parties. But it can't be that everything that the Center Party isn't for is centralization, and at least it's not like everything the Center Party does when they rule is decentralization. When the representative Slagsvold Vedum was Minister of Agriculture, the number of farms and farmers fell throughout Norway, and that is a good example of how they definitely did not contribute to decentralisation here in the country. For me, decentralization is about moving power out of the state and into strong municipalities and states. For me, decentralisation is about giving trust to the municipalities and the counties. And for me, decentralization is about moving state jobs far out of the capital. The centre party and I may not agree very much on this matter, but I hope that for the future instead of hacking at each other, which I feel the centre party is doing today, we can engage in dialogue, put our heads in softness and join forces to set the course for how we reverse the bad development in North Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e2133	As the Prime Minister explained, the government has taken a number of steps to strengthen and develop our country – our whole country. This has produced good results, not least in our northernmost counties, with high economic growth and very low unemployment. When Social Violence Vedum makes claims, I always get a little skeptical. Simplifying rhetoric is often about something larger and more complex. Now Battle Violence Vedum believes that the Prime Minister must clear up the fact that the peoples of the northernmost states are falling, so it is as it usually is. Has a municipality a challenge, calls the Center Party to the government. The central party's belief in the municipalities is as usual totally absent. But how are things actually going? According to SSB figures, the decline in population is primarily not due to people born or raised in these counties moving out. In fact, the number that these move out is lower than under the red-green government. For Finnmark’s part, the number has never been lower. In 2008, when the Central Party was in government, the number of ‘indigenous’ displaced persons was 14 times higher. But what's interesting about the numbers is that while people born and raised in the northernmost states seem to thrive well, and thus to a lesser extent move out, the numbers of people with a migrant background show the opposite. The last four years have between 62 pst. and 73 pst. by those moving from the northernmost states, had a migrant background. This leads to a large increase. So there are people with immigrant backgrounds who don't want to live in these counties. When the opposition is constantly talking down this part of the country, crisis maximising and reversing the merger of states as the only focus, this may not provide the world's greatest security for its residence for people who do not know this part of the country in depth. My call goes to the individual municipality: the municipalities that experience great relocation should identify as soon as possible why there is so much difference between being born there and moving there. Why don't you get along with the others? Is there a lack of inclusion, a lack of language training, a lack of faith in the future, or is there a lack of a job opportunity? The steps that we as part of the government can take are to make sure that Norwegian education and integration requirements are met. We've already done that. Municipalities that are unable to show good results are no longer allowed to settle newly arrived refugees and asylum seekers. Then we can identify refugees and asylum seekers for their skills, education and interests, so that we place more people in places that match the labour market in each part of the country. This, too, is what we are doing. We can't decide that people can't move, but we can decide how the whole country can evolve, and we've done that by simplifying, renewing and improving laws. We have put a tremendous effort on transport and provided for lower taxes and taxes. That's why we now have very low unemployment across the country, and this part of the country is going very well. This is probably why the proportion of ‘indigenous’ moving out has been low in recent years. Then the individual municipality itself must ensure that the residents of them feel at home and have access to this labour market. The Brotherhood of these municipalities that we are now debating is governed by the Center Party. I urge Battle Violence Vedum to have greater confidence in his own local politicians rather than calling out to the Prime Minister. When we know who's moving, it's also easier to take the necessary local grip. I encourage these municipalities to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e2158	I think that no matter what is listed by the government parties as the positive and negative qualities of the Central Party, it would have been a strength for the country that the inhabitants of the north feel heard, and that is not always the case. That's the sum of things that make it difficult. It is both the big decisions and the small signals that often make you feel that you are a little less valued, a little less respected and a little less cared for. The government may, for example: impossible have sat well enough into what are the actual consequences of shutting down the Nesna. If you had known this part of the country well enough, you wouldn't have let that happen. Saying that you are now providing for decentralised education feels like salt in the wound. Ting rights, land change rights, government tax collection, land interest tax on aquaculture and hydropower – something is decided, much is fortunately not, but it is the government that orders the reports and sends the signals. It is sent, for example: A signal when it comes to fighting to get the funds of the Brønn Island Health Registers into the state budget, at least we're going to believe the trusted ones. Not least, there is a signal when Equinor now withdraws the promise of landing from Johan Castberg to Nordkapp. If you can figure out what it feels like for the population, you just get sad. It is also a little sad that county councils are not able to carry out their tasks, either new or old, and that the state budget is adding up to zero growth. Maybe a small, but descriptive example is cultural memory management. Four annual works in the state are worth 90 000 kroner now when the county is going to do the job in the Nordic region. The county council often becomes the part of the fine, which has to do with the difficult cuts, as there are no funds with all the new statutory tasks, and that is the way it feels in the municipalities as well. In the reform of the municipality, the government has also taken responsibility for the Sami. The part of Tysfjord that enters the municipality of Hamarøy is protected by the fact that it is an area for Sami language management. The eastern part, which enters Narvik, is not preserved. Two government councils have previously said that Sami language users should not get worse as a result of the municipal reform, but now the Council of State answers that Sami language users entering Narvik will not have the same language rights as before and that the municipality must take responsibility for it. The Prime Minister mentions new transport solutions, and that is good. Nevertheless, the follow-up to the county roads only in Northern Ireland is 9 billion. kr. The state must get on the road and help to bring the country into line with the counties, because driving on Norwegian highways is a safety risk. Road transport in the north has increased enormously in recent years, and unfortunately it also has a number of accidents. Therefore, county roads must also be given priority by the state, but other measures must also be taken. The government must impose all necessary national requirements to prevent fatal accidents involving non-resident vehicle combinations. Even if something's done, there's a lot left. As we have heard, North Norway delivers enormous values to society based on natural resources. If we are to be able to take advantage of the values that exist, we need to facilitate viable societies throughout the country, and we need to be able to do so in consultation with those who live there. With regard to the green shift, the counties have largely taken responsibility and are moving to zero and low-carbon vessels, in line with the government's objective of fossil-free public transport by 2025. Nevertheless, the 2019 Green Shipping Action Plan does not include funds for the operation of zero-emission ferries. It is now the travellers who have to pay the price, either cut in departures or more expensive tickets. That's the sum of things. It's the air ambulance. It's the fact that it costs more to travel by plane between two places in North Norway than it costs to travel to the other side of the Earth. It is that small municipalities that are very good at integration are not allowed to settle refugees. It's that right away, for example. The North Norwegian Railway is mentioned, what they have to do in that case is to be discussed, which we rarely hear when billions are invested in quadruple roads or cultural buildings in the Central East. It's no longer that we live with «hua» in hands, but we have a strong faith – we have a faith in North Norway and a belief that we are worth it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e2181	Centralization is quite powerful forces as almost, one could believe, live one's own life. But they are reinforced by the government's policy, which is very market-driven. When you get the drive that's in itself in centralization, along with government policy, it becomes very negative for the districts. I brought with me the big message that the Prime Minister made in his post, and there you only serve more old right policies. That is the opposite of good district policy. There are no new measures; there are only reprices of other centralising right-wing policies. In the municipal committee, we have experienced this in the context of the municipal economy. One is the volume: everyone knows how important the community economy and good communities are for those who are going to run and set up a business – that it is so that you can meet business in a positive way, and that it is community that is exciting and can offer something more than care and schooling. There the government chooses to have a municipal economy so demanding that a lot of municipalities now have to cut down on what is needed. The second is that you've changed the income system to centralize it. You take from the small districts and give to the large, strong municipalities, and of course it centralizes even more. That distortion is politics, and you can do something about it if you want, but you don't want it. Then it's a community merger. The Prime Minister says that one of the problems here is that on the outskirts we get older. Yes, we do, but we're actually not getting much younger by merging two municipalities. If you put two old guys together, they're actually old, both of them -- and if you put two poor people together, they won't be very rich either. So this has to be about putting in place both the local economy and the industrial policy instruments that make people get involved and risk-absorbing those who want to start up in the districts. The government does not — on the contrary, it cuts in the regional policy instruments of the county, as the government writes in the budget works better than the others. It's very strange that you do it. Education is everyone talking about, and I'm also very concerned about it, in North Norway and in other districts. There the government has ensured that important education is provided in one of the areas of the country that lacks the most of this competence, and then it is said that it is so difficult to acquire competence there. What we know is that when that education takes place locally, it's much easier to recruit adult people who have some experience, go in, take education, make it excellent and stay. There is a lot more to it, both in the educational places we have, and by ensuring decentralised higher education through county municipalities. So instead of cutting the county councils, as the government does: give them real tools, so that they can help decentralize education opportunities across the country, in all municipalities, in cooperation with local business – like what I was doing in Kongsvinger in 1989. It still works, and there is a very close cooperation with both private and public enterprises to ‘serve’ what is needed locally, both people and business, and it works. ICT is also mentioned by the Prime Minister. It's very strange that when we put it into practice, it has to be centralized even more. You'd think it would actually make it possible to get things that work beyond, decentralised. But unfortunately we haven't seen much of it so far. On the contrary, it is used as an argument to centralize, without any good reason at all. In the case of local resources, there is also considerable reason to look at it in North Norway. I just want to mention as far as the fish in the sea is concerned. There, the government has been opposed to ensuring the right of the local population to these resources and that the benefits of these activities are to the benefit of local communities and the coast. The allocation of fish resources is increasingly unfair, the money disappears from the national section, the resources disappear from the national section — and then you sit down afterwards and don't understand what has happened.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e2207	It is a major and important question the representative Vedum is going to travel in his interpellation. It seems to me that he is addressing this precisely in order to get support for the negative narrative of the Central Party for development in Norway, and that he himself, in his own opinion, has the best answer: centralisation and aggregation of municipalities and counties, among others. Let me briefly state that there is little or no support for such thinking if we go closer to population statistics and the general development of North Norway. In this way, I look forward to seeing the results of the demographic committee that the government set up in October. But we already know something. For the sake of statistics, I base Jonas Stein's recently accepted doctoral thesis from the University of Tromsø. There are essentially two reasons why population decline is so strong right now. One: lower or nearest cessation of immigration, in particular from EEA countries. And two: that the families choose to postpone their births. Since women make up a smaller proportion of the population in northern Norway than the rest of the country, this affects this part of the country more strongly. It is worth noting that this has been an ongoing trend over many years and under many governments. In the year 2000, 10 pst. of the children born in Norway in the north, now the percentage is 8. Moreover, it is clear that the decline has something to do with immigration and that it reinforces the trend. In general, Norway has enjoyed immigration in the last 10–15 years. Since 2009, we have had an increase in migrants of 150 000. Now this development is almost halted, among other things. the economic and social development of the Eastern bloc countries is re-entering it in our own country. For the Left, this was a rash of a joyful and wild policy, a solidarity effort to bring a mass of people in the Eastern bloc into line with the rest of Europe. In addition, this has a humanistic dimension. I call it active peace policy – freedom, if you like. The left has a vocabulary for this development, as opposed to the interpellant, which with migration more than like to see something scary and threatening in such a development. There are some points of light in the tunnel. There is nothing to suggest that in the future we will give birth to fewer children per woman than before, Norwegian women will only give birth to children later in life. The woman wants to realize her professional ambitions more before they have children, and few of us see something problematic about it. On the other hand, it may be desirable from a woman’s health perspective that births take place earlier. In winter, the media — well-helped by the opposition — listened to the Prime Minister’s appeal in his New Year speech to women in Norway to give birth to more children. I believe there must be reason to repeat this appeal with greater depth of argument than there was room for in a New Year's Eve. The decline in population is an important sign of an upcoming recession. It also applies in North Norway. We must counteract such a trend, for example. with an active policy on equality and employment, business policy, education policy and family policy, as the Prime Minister pointed out in his statement. Then it's an important point to make more people want to live in North Norway and not least make more young people stay in the country. Then it can be a good strategy to talk to Nordland, Troms and Finnmark instead of using a broad brush to paint a misery detail over the state. There are not a few northerners I have spoken to, who have seen themselves tired of a constant and distorted bad image of the continent that emerges when the opposition smells like Council blood. This interpellant debate is about a part of Norway that is particularly rich in human resources as well as in nature. I can mention strings like pure force, fish, minerals. Now in December, Rana Blade was able to announce a launch of a private regulatory work for a battery plant in Mo in Rana. There may be several tens of billions in investment and up to 2,000 jobs. Unemployment is at a minimum in North Norway, and the big community – the interpellant contemptuously describes as the Oslo people in dress at arm's length away from this pulpit – has, through generations in international context, invested large sums in a political effort that underlines that Norway is one kingdom. It still applies, at least as long as the left hand has a hand on the steering wheel. The bet carries fruits. A key in addition to the long list presented by the Prime Minister is the North Norway Railway, where the government has undertaken a major and important work, including: will bring North Norway closer to the European market, to our delight. In Sweden, a different strategy has been adopted for its national bet, and I should have liked to have had the opportunity to come back to it, but I see that the list of speakers is already fully drawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e2237	At the same time as the world’s interest moves northwards, the northerners move southwards. It's a paradox. The Workers' Party has always been concerned with building the part of the country. That's why the population numbers we're now looking at in the north are worrying about us. This is because it is not just a problem for North Norway, but for Norway. North Norway and the north are a crucial part of the Norwegian economy, and its importance will only increase in the years to come. Of course, there is no quick fix or solution. North Norway is also part of global trends, with digitisation, globalisation and urbanisation. But that North Norway is part of the global trends is not an argument to let that happen. On the contrary, it is an argument for a specific effort. Then, of course, is the first thing we should do, to stop doing much of what the government does, whether it's cutting the county budgets and regional development funds or centralizing. Of course, we should bet on well-being. If you want to live in a municipality, you need more than one job. You need school, kindergarten and cultural and welfare services. That is an argument for a good municipal economy. But we also need to take back initiatives in Northern policy. We've had six years with too low ambitions, combined with centralization in the north. There is a need for a new give in the North Region policy and in the North Norway initiative. Of course, we should take advantage of the opportunities that are based on resources: agriculture, wind, minerals, tourism and industry, for example. on Helgeland. But we can talk about these possibilities as much as we want, it doesn't mean much if there aren't people living in the north who can use them. When we discuss population decline or other elements of North Norway and Northern Region policy, we are often told that the economy in the north, in the business world, and there is low unemployment. But the reality is that in too many communities, too little is noticed about the ringing effects of what happens. You can stand on the docks in Karlsøy and see the freezer jets slip into the freezer hotels in Tromsø before they send the fish frozen out of the country. Local government budgets can be created in a marine community, but do not see the result of the activity on its own bottom line. And you can sit at home in the living room and hear party speeches about the north on TV, but watch Nav, the district court, the tax office or his studio be laid down. This is not a policy that creates optimism. It is not a policy that provides housing or – even more importantly – ‘bliss-lysed’ in the north. What we are asking for are initiatives and conscious policies that focus on opportunities in the north. Where are, for example, government's sea wind bet for the northern regions? What is the government's ambition for the role of the northern regions in the green shift? There are few regions in the world that have such great opportunities not only to see the impacts of climate change but also to deliver solutions and create jobs to save the climate. Where are the more offensive plans for which environments of competence can be established in the north or moved to the north? How can you, among other things, do the University of Tromsø and Nord universitet provide new national tasks and incentives for more decentralised education, so that one is not as one-track as one has been in the field of structuring and internationally leading trade unions? Of course, knowledge has been the driver too much of what has happened in the north. The doctoral student Jonas Stein, to whom reference was made earlier today, has pointed it out in this way: «Universities are more important than tax havens [[...]] When the battery factory in Mo i Rana was mentioned, I also have to say that another challenge with competence in the north is that we have to make sure that there are training courses that match the needs of the business community. In order to build a large battery factory that needs a lot of expertise, there must also be training provision in that region. We have to think again about digitization. It is ironic that technological development, which actually makes it possible to do skills work almost anywhere in the country, which is most often used as an argument for centralisation, when we should use the policy to increase skills jobs in the districts. We need more strategic plans and more offensive policies – do not leave them to the market or business neutrality. Industrial neutrality is not going to create the jobs in the north that give the optimism that makes you want to live there.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e2262	Nordland and North Norway are fantastic to live and work in, but it is absolutely right that our biggest challenge – and it has been there for a long time – is that we have become fewer residents in the north. Nevertheless, it becomes a paradox when the representative Battle Violence Vedum and his red-green comrades try to present it as if it were not bet in the north, and almost indicates that there is no one who wants to live in the north. I'm asking the representative and the other red-green comrades to think about the words we use if we want people to move to our part of the country, if we want to get entrepreneurs to establish themselves in our part of the country, and if we want to get owners of businesses to invest further in the region. Let's do it with all the time talking down what's happening in the north, no matter what it is, for example. The air ambulance, which is said to threaten the safety of us living in the north? I was out for a walk in town, I went down for a little walk to a neighboring store and was going to pick up a present. It was south of me by the Nordic dialect, a beautiful northern dialect, which I would rather hear in the north. But the northerners have moved downwards. What do we do to make them move northwards? Then I think we're going to have to start talking about the part of the country. It's in the north. When I visit company owners, when I talk to my friends in the north, they say, "Nice that you're betting on transportation, finally we see the result of a government betting on what's important to our part of the country, to our companies, to get our goods out on the market." It's a formidable bet that's happened. But what do we see happening in Northernland, which is governed by the Central Party and the Workers' Party? Yes, it is quite right that there have been fewer Nordics, and especially 16-19-year-olds, there is going to be a little less money for Nordland. But what do they do? Yes, they're raging the offer in the district. They proposed to set aside 29 classes now in the harvest in the budget – 29 classes! There were torch trains in every city where there was a school, to keep just the offer that is established to match the business demand in our neighborhood, and to educate the youth of the jobs that the county swims over. No, they'd better move out of our state, because Nordland doesn't choose to bet on them. Nordic countries with the Central Party at the head of the Economic Council choose not to bet on the schools. 4 out of 29 classes were maintained after they made their fury. At the same time, a report from Agenda Kaupang showed that the county operates 50 million. kr more expensive than comparable counties. So if you get less money, politics is always about what we prioritize. Priority is given to having an expensive administration, and not least to an expensive state administration of politics, a part of politics – yes, there will be less money to run secondary schools for. We saw the same thing when it came to cutting off the cruise boat offer. On the day the county got a refund – crown for crown – the cost of ferries and fast boats, they suggested cutting, and when you cut an offer and get less expenses, and you know that ok, you get back what you have for expenses – yes, there will be less money. But you were so concerned about criticising the government that you forgot to check what the facts were in what you proposed. To the representative of Slagsvold Vedum: It is great that he travels north. Keep going north, but tell the stories, tell the youth that the government has granted NOK 150 000 in scholarships if you are a teacher and are in North Norway. Tell those stories, he's helping us make our youth go north, because that's what we need.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e2275	Bets on North Norway must be based on the peculiarities of North Norway, our culture, our use of nature and travel life where we tell the stories behind what we offer, more than mass tourism. The industries that have been here for hundreds of years must continue to operate. They're the basis and the reason why we're here. Traditionally, we don't take more from nature than we need. Having so we mountains is the basic idea of most people. The multicultural is our wealth and strength. Our food is the purest, healthiest and best that exists. We must sell it expensively and not pollute it by making it too commercial. The fish is the silver of the sea. The right to harvest it belongs to the people in common. Fishing authorities manage the rights on behalf of people. The fish shall be distributed annually through quotas to the fishermen who can bring it on land, quality fish for the best paid use. Because there is a shortage of fish, this must be distributed by the public according to the requirements and priorities of the law. It is not the market forces that will determine where to land the fish in the country and which of the coastal peoples will have the right to participate in the fishing. In the years between the closure of cod fishing and the year 2010, the number of recruits went down by 80 pst. This is a disastrous development that a part of the country that has been feeding on fish resources for thousands of years will suffer under for many years to come, as we will experience from the ever-increasing shortage of quality fish. European markets are screaming for ‘superior’ goods. Fish buyers cannot meet demand. The main measure to be taken by a new government is the reallocation of concessions and allowances. The proposal of the Centre Party is as follows: In Northern, Troms and Finnmark, 10 new cod rights are granted each year to young, active fishermen under 30 years of age for vessels under 11 metres. These permits may not be transferred, nor the allowance. Places without fishing reception are granted money for reception stations. The State supports transport from such stations and to fish buyers. Trawl raw material originally extracted from the coastal fleet to compensate for poor supply from the coastal fleet, especially during the harvest months, i.e. universal raw material for fish buyers/industries is transferred to the coastal fleet where the trawls do not deliver as originally imposed. Here are also some questions that need to be asked. Are we going to afford market forces, or are we going to facilitate local value creation? The Centre Party will maintain the Participation Act and the Fish Sale Act. This means that active fishermen should own a boat and use. Fishery organisations shall have the right to first-hand turnover and price fixing. The fisheries management shall grant fishing rights to young, active fishermen free of charge. Then we'll get in line with Norwegian law. What happens is that young people who want to invest in the fishing profession cannot afford to buy a right and are thus excluded from fishing, even if they live near the best of fishing grounds, where the fish comes swimming to the coast every single year at the same time. We need to focus more on the production of fish. In Iceland, the authorities have decided that if the fleet does not deliver fresh fish that can easily be produced on land, a 20 pst is lost. of the allowance. This has led the industry to get the fish it needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e2304	Thank you to the guy who asked, for having taken up an important issue. The development of the population and the lack of labour in the north are all reasons for taking this seriously. I also believe that the representative Battle Violence Vedum and his party are serious when they say, both here in the hall and in various propaganda games, that they want services near where people live. But look at what the Center Party itself stands for in one of the states of the north that I, on behalf of the Left, had delighted to have an extra responsibility for, Northernland, there is a reasonable distance between life and learning in the Center Party – between festivities, election games and opposition engagement and what they do when they themselves are in power. Good transport solutions are decisive to secure viable districts. The Central Party has been responsible for transport in the county of Nordland for a long time. What's going on? Well, necessary bus, boat and ferry routes are being laid down, people either have to move to the city or go about for miles to get to work. They introduced the bureaucracy for ordering calls on boats and buses, which in practice render the offer temporarily totally useless. When ordering new boats for future traffic along the north coast, fishermen and the local population have expressed great concern that vessels that are now being ordered by the county will have reduced cargo capacity, with the result that fish recipients have problems getting the fish into the mainland. Is this the responsibility of the government and the Prime Minister? No, it's the responsibility of the Northernland County Council, with the Central Party at the rudder. Another important element for young people to choose to stay in the countryside or come back later is that they are able to take as much of their schooling as possible in the vicinity of their hometown. And what happens in Northernland? Yes, as the representative Ebbesen referred to: The Central Council is a member of, has closed down 25 further lines around the districts of the county. Is that the responsibility of the government and the prime minister? No, it's the responsibility of the Northernland County Council, with the Central Party at the rudder. And no, economics cannot be used as the cause and explanation of those who have power in the Nordic countries. On the other hand, the county has increased revenues of approx. One and a half billion. kr in the last eight years. Surplus has ranged from 183 million. NOK 620 million. SEK, and in 2018 there was a surplus of 386 million. kr. The Nordic countries have also received compensation funds over several years to facilitate the transition to a new income system. At the top, they've got 80 million. kr from the new Marine Fund Left and the other government parties created in 2017. Me and the Left agree that an active rural policy is required here in the country, both from politicians centrally, regionally and locally. And if I'm going to allow myself to give him the question, and the party leader, a good, well-intentioned advice, is that I think he'd better use the time to make the difference between life and learning in our own districts, for example. in the Nordic region, rather than questioning a Prime Minister who is most likely to be working on the job. And in my county by chance, Northern Ireland, there is little doubt that the policy of the Center Party is leading, actively contributing to centralisation – either to Bodø or out of the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e2319	This almost develops into a debate on the Central Party – not a debate on the challenges. But sail a three-year-old realize that the construction is raging if you remove too many pieces of what forms the foundation of a work. Representatives from the government parties say that things are going so bad in the Nordic countries, and later as if the business is going well because of the pinking of the right government. It's not like that. Growth in Northern Ireland began long before right-wing government came to power. Nordic countries have large natural resources, and we have had a good ten-year growth period. In 2012, a new population record was set in the north. Now there are other records – population decline records. The representative Ebbesen talked about transportation. What she doesn't mention is that 52 pst. by the NTP on the east and only 3,8 pst. is for coastal construction. Don't feel the little 3,8 pst. The representative also shows that there are fewer 16-year-olds, but that's just a tiny bit of an explanation. I heard no representatives from the right-wing government complain about the cut of almost 500 million. kr to Nordland. What was the first government doing? Well, that was changing the distribution keys. They took from the north and from the districts and went to the central struts. I've never heard them regret it. Nordic countries did not want to change the distribution keys for fast boats, if they gave less revenue to the county. Nevertheless, it was changed. It was the government that changed the distribution keys. And it was the government parties that voted in favour of the proposal of the Central Party to correct this bias. We made a proposal that would give more money to the coastal states. It was downhearted. It's about high school. It's clear that it's regrettable that lines are being laid down, but the Center Party doesn't want to lay down a single high school. We have 16 – there are quite a few, with even more places to study. In comparison, I can tell you that the government refuses to intervene. Nord University was told that it was expected that the number of places of study would decrease, and Nesna has closed down. But it's possible to turn it around. In 2015, an NHO report showed three different directions of policy in North Norway. One was turning around – it's more district policy. The second was to follow developments that were then, and the third option was to lead. That's what we see today. We see that it is centralised and centralised – it is speeding up centralisation. Now there's no emergency policy to bet on North Norway. If you turn around and have more district policy, according to the NHO report, it will increase value creation by 20 billion. kr towards 2040. If you do what you do now and speed up centralization, it will reduce the value creation in North Norway by 11 billion. kr. That is, the difference between the government's centralization policy and the vision we have for North Norway is at 31 billion. kr in value creation. That's what's going to be about creating the future for Norway as a whole. One example is that it is important for people to be able to live in North Norway, and then the air ambulance service is vital. It's a support bar to ensure life and health in a region with great distances, and it's important for people to live in the north. The situation is now serious. Acute medical safety cannot wait, and the government leaves the offer in the north collapsing. Security is important for people to live, live and work in a part of the country with deportation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e2334	When I listen to the speakers from the Right, the Advance Party and the Left, they seem to be more concerned about the Center Party than they are about the development of the three northernmost states. That's what's their main point: what's wrong with the Central Party rhetoric today? And then you talk a lot about what's going on in the Nordic countries. It's amazing, it seems that the representatives of the Magnificent of the Right in Northernland are very pleased that the changes in the income system of the states in 2015 caused Nordland to lose 315 million. kr. 315 million. kr lost Nordland, while Oslo received 742 million. kr. In the case of regional development funds, Nordic countries have lost. It's gone from 254 million. NOK 128 million. Now kr. It's going to add up. It doesn't seem like they're worried about at all. But politics works. Of course, when you bottle up counties for money, when you bottle them for jobs, it gives results. In 54 municipalities in the three northernmost counties, there are fewer government jobs. State jobs have been laid down. It is a fact, although the number of State jobs in Norway has increased, it has not fallen. Then it's about the fact that I've been talking about the air ambulance. I have not talked down those who work in the air ambulance, but we have, of course, been critical of the emergency crisis in the North Norway air ambulance. It should just be missing that you're not taking it up. I had last week's meeting with the trustees at UNN, those sitting on the planes, the nurses who are on the trips, and they were deeply concerned. Shouldn't I, as an elected national, address that concern when there is an emergency crisis in large parts of the North-Norway air ambulance service? Of course I do. It's the government's responsibility, and they've gone into it with open eyes. But even this summer, Bent Höie, as the responsible government council, was more concerned about criticising the Central Party because we took it up than about solving the crisis – because it's a crisis. The people of the north deserve more than that someone rather directs the rhetoric against us than doing something about the actual conditions. Then two plants are lifted up. In the case of Alcoa in the Wefsn, what will Weefsn lose if the power tax committee that the government has set down gets an impact on its policy on the government's order? They'll lose 12.6 million. kr. That's what they want to lose. What did they say at Alcoa was the most important thing, when I met them at the factory there this summer? Yeah, it was low power. There is no suction in Alcoa to build a new export cable for electricity, which today's government has added. And when I'm in Rana and I have meetings there, what are they busy about there? Well, it's a low price of power, because it's vital to build new factories and new plants. Then they're very concerned about the power tax change that the government has brought up. Rana Municipality will lose 63 million. kr on that conversion. Politics works. North Norway is a fantastic part of the country with great opportunities, great resources, but today's government has centralized, and unfortunately it's a negative policy that we want to turn around.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e2347	It is with interest that I am listening to a debate like this, which is taking on an incredibly important challenge, a fundamental challenge for Norway from a 30-year perspective, but which is already coming to the more pig-like parts of North Norway, the more widespread parts of North Norway, namely that the mismatch between those in working age and the elderly is going to increase, that population changes make it more difficult. That's what I think was a good input to a debate that should have been about what we're doing with it. I'm not sure I feel that that debate has really been about it. I think there have been many rounds of different policy approaches and various discussions that have been far from it, last at the representative Battle Violence Vedum's talk that the power plant tax changes seem centralizing. Well, no changes in the power plant tax have been proposed. There's a public sample that's made a setup, and it's at the hearing. So you can't have a human being who has moved from a place in this country because of a public investigation that hasn't been decided anywhere. In fact, it suspects that the motive of the Central Party for this debate was not the concern of North Norway, but a general discussion about centralisation and stamping of government policy. In fact, I think the issue we are discussing today is so serious and important that we are going to discuss it – a little bit on the premises that the representative Grimstad addressed in his speech, namely what are the reasons. There are two main reasons – there are certainly some things that come in addition, but two main reasons: First that women have children later. That also means that you usually don't get the third child, which was my theme in the last New Year's Eve. It's a challenge for Norway in the future if we're going to have population figures to solve the challenges. The second is that labour immigration no longer contributes it to employment around the country, because we attract less because development is better elsewhere, and because we have a desire to get more of those who are outside the labour market into work and ask people to call Nav before they call Poland to get people to work. There are many exciting and important discussions that have been raised here, and I can't get right with everyone, but that's how the county council has been compensated for 360 million. kr in these years following the changes in the income system. We have an income system that should be based on objective cost criteria, and then we adjust it according to how cost developments are and see if there have been new changes in it. Just standing on this pulpit and saying that we are cutting violently for Northernland gives a wrong picture. We're actually seeing a distribution now where we've increased the appropriations for the Northern County Municipality in this period overall.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e2360	The debate on substance is then closed. Ten over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e2378	In the last five years, more than 2,500 Norwegian children have been affected by the establishment of expulsion proceedings against one or both parents. This applies to children who are either Norwegian nationals or who live in Norway with authorisation, who have been affected by the establishment of expulsion decisions against one or both parents for the last five years. This is the number NRK has got from the Foreign Affairs Directorate. In about half of the cases, one parent ends up being expelled. Things that deal with children amount to about 8 pst. of the total number of expulsion cases established in the period 2015 to June 2019, saying that in about half of the cases it ends with expulsion. We've been getting more examples in the media in the last few months on these issues. The NRK was able to tell about a mother from Lwagal, who, after nearly 20 years in Norway, was expelled after several rounds in court. She's going to leave the country without her four children – because she reported the wrong country of origin almost 20 years ago. In the Mountain Municipality of Hordaland, another mother sits with a blind and ill husband. The Norwegian foreign authorities believe that this mother, who is from Iran, has provided incorrect information in relation to her application for family immigration and that she has entered into a pro forma marriage with her husband only for stays in Norway. She has therefore received an expulsion order saying that she must stay outside Norway and Schengen for five years. The man is ill, so the Child Welfare Service also believes that if the mother has to leave Norway, they have to take over the daily care of the children. At home in Lofoten, four Norwegian girls experienced in April this year the worst thing I think a child can experience. The police came to their door at Bird and picked up the father. After 22 years in Norway, the father of the four Norwegian girls aged 5 to 13 was sent out of the country. Ahmad was born in Lebanon in 1975, and for the last 22 years he has lived in Norway. So he's the father of four Norwegian children, and the wife is a Norwegian citizen. For the last two years, this family has lived in Lofoten, where the mother is project manager in the municipality of Vestvågøy, and the man has worked as Norwegian and math teacher in the refugee reception school. Ahmad was expelled for giving the wrong identity when he came to Norway as a young man. He has been denied entry into Norway and the entire Schengen area, including for five years. Ahmad and the family have fought a hard fight for many years to give their children a family life and an upbringing with both their mother and their father. Their case has been dealt with by both UDI and UNE, and Ahmad complained UNE to Oslo about the matter in 2016, where he won his case. The District Court judge reasoned that the best weight of the children was the best, and supported Ahmad. The General Court asked UNE to reconsider the case, and UNE allowed the same case handler to assess the case and refused to amend the expulsion decision. UNE appealed to the law enforcement authority and received support, but the law was in doubt and asked UNE to consider new elements in the case. UNIQUE failed to do so and maintained its expulsion decision. Ahmad was sent out on 9 April and has since been in Lebanon. Together with the support group, Ahmad got legal aid to send a new procedural notice to UNE, where it was pointed out that UNE has used the wrong law application, and that both the proceedings and the evidence assessment are wrong. This was a very thorough warning, and the children, who are interested parties in the matter, wrote their own letters to the UN referring to Article 12 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child to be heard on matters relating to them. UNE put in the same case handler as in the six previous rejections, and rejected the notice. UNE has failed to deal with the matter in the following terms, which are common practice when there are different assessments in the case law and law enforcement, and UNE has failed to listen to the children and has not taken into account the best interests of the children. Children in these cases have little opportunity to conduct their case. Children should be heard. However, families often have limited economic and capacity, and the field is characterised by a highly polarising debate with clear ambitions to achieve policy objectives on immigration-regulating considerations – a policy debate that is legitimate and important but which is not intended in any way to intervene in the legal system. After I have been thoroughly involved in this matter, which is from my municipality of residence in Lofoten, I am left with many questions. Is it common for the same UN case handler to deal with all these applications? It would have been as if I were going to complain about the character I got when I went to the teacher's school, and that it was the same sensor that was going to reset the character. He or she would not have been able to see the matter all over again when they had first made up an opinion. And why did UNE fail to deal with the matter in the following terms, which is common practice when there are different assessments in the subject matter and law enforcement? NOAS refers to recent case-law in which the courts consider that the foreign authorities must pay more attention to the best interests of children than they do today. One alternative is that you can look more closely at using other forms of reaction than expulsion. This could be done, for example, by: be prefaces or the like, for the children have done nothing. Is this what Norway will assess? The majority has decided in March 2018 that the government should consider different alternatives to expulsion in matters relating to children. And while the Minister of Justice is investigating, the children lose important family time. In the case of Lofoten, the four children have lost the father who butters the food package, the father who drives to the cultural school, the father who helps with the homework, the father who cooks the cocoa and takes the children around on Sunday tours in the beautiful landscape we have in Lofoten, and the father who reads to them in the evenings – valuable family time these children never get back, the security of their childhood. And the Norwegian authorities point out that you can get equal quality time on Skype, is just so sad that I don't have words. The core of all of these matters, as I see it, is that the state punishes Norwegian children for their parents' faults did too many, many years ago. And so today my question becomes the Minister of Justice: does the government agree that the Children's Convention should go ahead of other Norwegian laws if they are opposed to each other? How does the government work to ensure that the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child Article 9-1 is complied with? And what measures have been taken to ensure the best interests of children in these kinds of cases?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e2406	As a starting point for his question, the representative Fagerås refers to — and also has a very thorough account of it in his own contribution — an individual matter dealt with by the Directorate of Foreign Affairs and the Department of Foreign Affairs, and it has also been dealt with by the courts. As Stortinget is familiar with, it follows from the Foreign Affairs Act that as a State Council, I cannot involve myself in the decision in individual matters. I will therefore not go into that matter further, in addition to pointing out that the matter has been dealt with in the judicial system and has been the subject of the Supreme Court, where the Supreme Court did not take it into consideration. So to the very question from the representative Fagerås, who does not relate to the individual case itself, but to the general design and implementation of the Children's Convention in Norwegian law and administrative practice. With regard to the first question from the representative of Fagerås, whether the Children’s Convention takes precedence over Norwegian laws in the event of a conflict, the answer to that question is yes. The Law on Human Rights expressly provides that the Convention on the Rights of the Child is to apply as Norwegian law and, in the event of a conflict, prevails over other Norwegian legislation. The same follows from one of the introductory provisions of the Foreign Affairs Act, which provides that the Foreign Affairs Act is to be applied in accordance with international rules by which Norway is bound, when they are intended to strengthen the legal position of the foreigner. This obviously has an effect on, for example: the Convention on the Rights of the Child. In addition, the key principle that the best interests of the child should be a fundamental consideration in matters relating to children is explicitly stated in the provisions of the Foreign Expulsion Act and not least in the Constitution itself. With regard to Article 9 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, to which the representative of the Fagerås has specifically referred, it is right that it should be worded in the first paragraph that children should not be separated from their parents against their will, except where this is necessary for the best interests of the child. However, on the basis of a legal interpretation, this provision does not in itself constitute an obstacle to the expulsion of non-residents who infringe the Foreign Affairs Act or other legislation of the country of residence. On the contrary – it is clearly and emphatically designed in point 4, where, among others: is specifically mentioned in the context of expulsion or imprisonment. So it's not that the Children's Convention is a convention designed to protect adults from being prosecuted in the country in which they are located. Nor is it the case that the Convention on the Rights of the Child is intended in such a way that children can be pushed in front of them in order to avoid burdensome public decisions. The provision of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which may primarily be a barrier to the expulsion of parents with children in expulsion proceedings, is Article 3 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. It is the provision that the best interests of the child should be a fundamental consideration in all actions relating to children. This is recognised as a more general principle, which is also applied by the European Court of Human Rights, hereinafter the EMD, when assessing expulsion cases and other matters affecting the right of children to family and private life. No matter how clear the adoption of legislation is, and no matter how thorough the management that assesses the child's best in such individual cases, there are many more dilemmas in each case. Because even if the child’s best interests are of fundamental importance, it may not always have a decisive role to play. And it is perfectly clear that the Convention on the Rights of the Child refers to the best of the child as a ‘basic reason’ and not the fundamental reason or an absolute fundamental reason, because it is also such that other considerations can be given weight. In expulsion cases, immigration regulatory considerations lie in the second scale of the assessment. This includes, inter alia: the legitimate interest of the country in keeping outside its borders non-residents who are undesirable here because they are, for example, commit crime or break the law or lie to stay because if they had said which country they came from, they would not be allowed to stay. It is therefore essential that expulsion should be a general preventive measure, and that also applies to foreigners who have committed serious violations of the Foreign Affairs Act, for example. long-term residence, illegal work or false information. Because current legislation and practices have to be based to a large extent on trust that the conditions of the law are respected and respected, it is also very important to be able to respond with an expulsion as a management response in the event of a serious breach of the law. False information on the identity of asylum when not required also undermines the institution of asylum. It takes places from those who really need help, and it creates less confidence in the people that we are actually just giving asylum to those who need it. I would like to stress that if such gross violations of the Foreign Affairs Act were not to have clear consequences, it would be very unfair to those who really need this help. And as stated, it is important that we maintain confidence in the institution of asylum, and this is also clearly expressed in the preparatory work of the law. It may vary from case to case how burdensome a consideration is that applies in one or the other direction. In some cases, for example: The foreigner committed a very serious crime, perhaps serious drug, drug or violence crimes or kidnapping. In such cases, it will normally only be under unusually high loads for the child that expulsion will be considered as a disproportionate reaction. The Court has held that the same applies also in the event of a very serious or massive breach of the Foreign Affairs Act. There may be variations in the extent to which expulsion will affect the children of the foreigner. In some cases, it is unproblematic for the whole family to leave Norway with the parent being expelled. In other cases, it has to be considered that the expulsion decision will lead to temporary or permanent family splits, which will hit children hard. It follows from what I have said now that the Convention on the Rights of the Child does not provide a clear directive in individual cases as to whether or not the foreigner can be expelled. The key here is therefore to ensure child-sensitive assessment, including sound and conscientious balances with other conflicting interests. The Foreign Regulation provides that, as a general rule, the best interests of the child should be given decisive weight in some specific situations. First, it is specifically provided that if the foreigner is living together with children who are to remain in Norway, the foreigner shall, as a general rule, not be expelled because of illegal work or residence, if the illegal situation has lasted less than two years. Secondly, if an expulsion decision is taken, the prohibition of entry shall, as a general rule, not be made permanent if the foreigner has children in Norway with whom he has lived for a long time in order to enable family life to continue. In addition, in order to ensure that child-sensitive assessments are carried out in all matters relating to children, a separate provision of the foreign policy has been included in the Decision establishing clearly in the Decisions what assessments have been made of the child’s situation, including the assessment of the child’s best interests, the immigration regulatory considerations that have been assessed and the weighing-up of possible conflicting considerations. As the representative of Fagerås was also involved, the department is now working with an investigation into alternatives to expulsion, but it is probably not the case that perhaps SV had hoped that this would be a direct alternative to expulsion. It should be a supplement to expulsion, but it is not going to be that cases of serious violations of the Foreign Affairs Act – and then we are talking about very serious violations of the Foreign Affairs Act – will cause expulsion to cease. This comes out at the hearing before Christmas. The emphasis has been placed on increasing the child-care professional competence of the foreign administration. In the context of foreign affairs, such as the one being brought up here now, UNE has through, among other things. an advisory child psychologist conducted various cases of typical expulsion cases involving children, where there is a possibility of family division, and established good procedures for dealing with them.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e2434	I had not expected the minister to comment on a single matter, but when we have recently had so many issues in the media that deal with the same thing, namely, the best of children, I am surprised that the minister is not more worried. I would say that the best interests of children are not taken into account in these individual matters, and I think it is alarming that the minister says that these parents are pushing the kids in front of them. In one case I referred to, it's about a man who has lived in Norway for over 20 years. He has worked and contributed to the communities he has been part of. Nor is it serious crime, except that they lied on the day they came to Norway. There is a common feature in the matters I have mentioned, that the parents have stated the wrong country on the day they came to Norway, and that they came to Norway as very young people. In the case from Lwagal, the mother reported the wrong country when she came to Norway 18 years ago, and in the case from Lofoten it is 22 years since the father was advised to report the wrong country when he came to Norway as an 18-year-old. There is no limitation period in these cases. If someone has committed a criminal offence, there are time limits for criminal proceedings to be brought against the individual. These deadlines are between 2 and 25 years in Norway, depending on the seriousness of the offence. For example, fraud will become obsolete after five years, serious fraud after ten years, and where the penalty framework is 21 years, the criminal law has a limitation period of 25 years. It is only in connection with the most serious crimes that matters will not become obsolete. It's about killing, terror, war crimes, etc. The Norwegian State therefore believes that it is so serious to lie as an 18-year-old that your children will be punished for it 20 years later. It is stated in the judgment in the case from Lwagal – according to the NRK: ‘I can’t then see that the children will be subjected to unusually heavy loads or that there are exceptional circumstances that indicate that the expulsion of A for two years will be disproportionate to any of the children.’ This is contrary to my legal opinion – that being separated from her mother or father as a five-year-old or as a teenager will not burden the children. You don't have to be a psychologist to understand that the effect of such a loss for both parents and children can develop into a trauma.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e2450	There is enough recognition from the SV in this Chamber, in this case, that a majority of the Stortinge do not come with what you really want, namely to have a massive liberalisation of asylum policy in Norway. That's why you try as hard as you can to pretend and argue that what's adopted by this room is not actually being implemented, and that despite the fact that both of the two individual things that I've heard about, and that have been identified, have been processed in the administration, which is independent of these individual matters. Both have been dealt with in the courts in Norway, and one case has also been fully dealt with in the Supreme Court. Is it true that SV believes that the courts in Norway are not good enough? Is it true that SV believes that we do not have an independent enough administration, and that there is a kind of political governance in individual cases, even though it is stated in the law that there is no commanding authority in individual cases? Clearly, the SV wants to be a foreign law where you can come to Norway from a country, and then you can state that you are from another country, because you know there are great chances of getting asylum if you say you are from there. So you come to Norway, you know that you don't have any protection needs, but you want to participate in the economic situation in Norway, and you lie and you say you're from the other country, because you want benefits for yourself. We have a foreign law passed by this Chamber, which clearly says that the right of asylum is reserved for people who are under persecution, who are in a life-threatening situation. We need to protect them. We need to fence them up. That is why we are in favour of the right of asylum, but we are not in favour of people who want to avail themselves of that right of asylum for their own gain.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e2467	It is comforting to hear the Minister of Justice standing and boasting about the policies of other parties in this pulpit. This is about Norway fulfilling its obligations under the various conventions, including the Refugee Convention, and in the refugee field, this government has put itself on a line where we don't, and where the competent bodies, UNHCR and underlying agencies, like UNE, say we don't. It undermines the asylum institute – we had a debate on the last week. There's no one who accepts cheating, there's no one who's supposed to be no reaction to it. When the Council of State says that, it is wrong, and I react very strongly to the fact that he insinuates that this is what SV believes, because it is not. We want a greater diversity of responses to such issues. We have to have a good procedure at first instance, so that you can figure out what's wrong, but I don't think you have to be so careful about the situation of people who are fleeing from great unrest, but who may not pass through the loop for asylum until you realize that you might want to say something that's not true at first. Had I been in such a situation, I think in fact I had both Juvenile and perhaps become criminal as well, to recover my own, my children and my grandchildren' lives. I think the Council of State would have done the same. It's about having an approach to this that doesn't make such a mistake end up with the results that we're now seeing, after 10, 15, 20, maybe 30 years. It's unreasonable. I have followed another case to the Supreme Court, where the seeker won. It was Mary, who was three years old, where mother was to be expelled for “migration regulatory reasons”. There have been many such cases, and it is now that ‘immigration regulatory considerations’ are drumming. It trumps everything, and UDI's director was out 14 days ago and said they had interpreted the Children's Convention too strictly. In addition to that, we have Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights, which also guarantees the right to family life, and there are also cases in which Norway has been convicted of not taking into account children's right to family life in just such matters as what we are talking about now. There is a need to look at these issues. Therefore, SV promoted proposals and received a majority in Stortinget for it in 2018, not in order to remove the possibility of expulsion, as the Council of State wrongly says from the Grand Council, but in order to be able to, for example, use other forms of reaction where this is unfair and where consideration of the children must weigh more heavily. So it's quite encouraging to listen to what the council says. It is true that when matters come to court, the court has a broader response pattern that they can apply. However, case-law constitutes case-law, just as decision-making practices constitute decision-making practices in the foreign administration, and that means that when you have a very strict line, you end up on a very strict line. What SV believes is that the child's concern is weighed too easily in these matters. The council may well shake my head, but I have also been away in cases where the police have broken into families with children in the middle of the night to pick up a mother who made a mistake when she arrived. The children were born in Norway. They were alive. Thank God these children had a father who was able to stand on his legs in it, but it was completely unnecessary to expel that mother. She could have had a prison sentence, she could have been fined for the action, which was wrong, but now we are too strongly responding to this. There is also a need to put a line in these cases, i.e. to have a limitation period – we have that in terms of serious crime. Many of these things are just about saving their lives, and it's not gross crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e2484	Once again, we are in this room discussing how SV, in particular, wants to ensure the ability of groundless asylum seekers to stay in Norway. And that's not the first time I've been surprised by the touching care SV primarily has for groundless asylum seekers. In this case, there are also not only groundless asylum seekers, they are the ones who have deliberately lied about their case in order to stay in Norway. It has now emerged earlier in the debate that it is wrong that Article 9 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child is an obstacle to parental expulsion. The Minister has clearly explained how this should be interpreted. In point 4 of Article 9, reference is made, inter alia, to: to imprisonment or expulsion as legitimate grounds for separation. The Socialist Left Party is constantly committed to imposing a limitation period in such cases and compares it with other criminal offences which have a limitation period. The current government has more far removed from the limitation period and has taken care to eliminate it in several cases. It is in that direction that one should perhaps rather go, rather than in the long term rewarding people who have cheated or committed criminal acts for being granted rights. Nor should one confuse these matters with other ordinary criminal matters. Here's a talk about people who have received a right they didn't have a right to, by lying. It is not that if you steal a car, it is considered a penalty to return the car. The punishment is the one you get afterwards. Many of these cases are not punished in that way, you lose only the right you have wrongly obtained by lying. In these matters we never hear SV admit that they are always too embellishment and never for tightening. They say over and over in this room that they want fraud to be punished in asylum matters, they say that they are not against the sending back of groundless asylum seekers, but if we look at all the proposals SV is promoting, and all the issues they raise where there are obviously groundless asylum seekers they stand for, including those who have cheated in the asylum application, would all of them stay. We've seen it in other European countries, we've seen it in our neighbouring country, where the policy SV is still on the agenda, has been implemented, and it hasn't done very well. It is quite clear that the sum of all the suggestions that come from SV would create conditions that would have been completely impossible to handle. And when we have so solid proof that that policy has been implemented, in Sweden, with the result it has received, I will strongly warn against going further in that direction. I think it's strange if SV doesn't also think in those paths. So I want to ask what is actually the SV's proposal to enforce the law we have to send out the groundless asylum seekers or those who have cheated for stay, all the time they claim to be what they want, while all the proposals go in the opposite direction. What is SV want to do to enforce the law that exists, so that we can actually take care of those who have a reason to stay in Norway? And there must be a narrow loop; one must have a very good reason for getting asylum in Norway. It amazes me that the SV repeatedly assumes that those who have been denied actually have a reason for staying, even though they have been through all legal proceedings and appeal institutions and have been rejected that they have.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e2501	I only register that the Progress Party representative Jon Engen-Helgheim does not care when 2 500 Norwegian children are affected and have been deprived of the right to family life. It engages at least SV, and I believe that it is not the legal state of Norway worthy, but it is happening on the guard of the Progress Party, and it happens with open eyes from the same party. It is a political task to assess the basis on which people have the right to stay in Norway, and it is up to the judicial system to assess the legal uncertainties or disagreements between the authorities and people affected. But at the same time, some other mechanisms, the same as we see in the Nav scandal. Norway has recognised a set of international laws and regulations that we are obliged to comply with. In this case, it is, in my opinion, a matter of Article 9(1) of the Children's Convention, which I have referred to earlier. UDI is delegated significant power to take decisions on matters that interfere with the lives of children, and the State is human counterparty to these matters. We who follow up on these matters react strongly to the fact that the UDI often chooses to review decisions sent back from the courts. The decisions may require UDI to focus on the best interests of children, while UDI often responds to the fact that immigration-regulating considerations have to weigh more heavily. When they do so in a final decision, it is not uncommon for the person or family concerned to be expelled from Norway at 24 hours of notice. If you do not have Norwegian citizenship, you suddenly have no rights in the legal system in Norway. This is a typical case that has hit the community in Lofoten, and if the matter that we discussed in the meantime, we need all the people we can get in my home municipality. Ahmed moved to Norway as a youth and got on arrival what he himself describes as a poor advice on how to secure a stay in Norway. After a few years of stay here, he himself chose to report to the authorities that he had provided incorrect information on arrival. Once again, I just want to say that I had no great expectations of the Minister of Justice from the Progress Party in this matter, but I still wanted to take it up from the Parliamentary Chair, because it has affected me so strongly. And again, this is no serious crime, this is a lie that was committed 20 years ago, and we have children who are victims in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e2514	When applying for a right in Norway, you are obliged to provide correct information. It's actually a basic principle, mostly within the administration, that if you lie to achieve a right you don't have the right to, then there's no limitation period. There are families in Norway who have had to endure the fact that the house has been demolished or not considered habitable any longer, because it was built illegally. It could even be done by those who owned the house before them, and it could be 20-30 years ago. There have been many strange claims, and this is going to be a debate on dealing with individual cases. But I have to say to the representative Andersen, who thinks it is emotive that I am advocating opinions they do not have: the only thing I have done is to refer to what the representative Fagerås actually says. She says that she thinks it is bad that 2,500 children are affected in expulsion cases, and that it is not a state worthy of justice. Then you have taken the position that this is no longer the case – and it is quite good to go out politically to flag that position. But that's not what this hall has decided. This room certainly has completely different rules, and the administration is obliged to follow those rules. I would strongly warn against such a case-by-case approach. There is a reason why this room has decided in the Foreign Affairs Act that no one can instruct UDI in individual cases, even in relation to UNE. We cannot instruct UNE in how they carry out their proceedings – precisely to ensure independent handling of individual cases. It's not very enlightening for the debate, and I don't think that individual representatives in this room have more legal competence, to say it that way, than the Supreme Court has. The end refers to Article 9 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child and lists one point and forgets to see that the whole of Article 9 has four points. The fourth explicitly mentions expulsion cases as one of the points where you need to have your own proceedings, precisely because it can happen despite what's at the first point.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e2523	The debate on substance is closed. So 11 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e2542	The reason for this interview is that the Stortinget has received more reports and feedback that sick children in child protection are not receiving the health care they need. Both child protection and health legislation require services to interact to the best of both children and patients. Activities providing health and child-resistance services are required to identify particularly risky parts of the supply and to put in place risk mitigation measures, if necessary. The question you have to ask is whether this happens. A research project from NTNU in 2015 found that about 76 pst. children of child-care institutions were diagnosed with at least one or more psychiatric disorders. The likelihood that children at childcare institutions need mental health care is therefore high. This places great demands on the competence of institutions before the protection of children. In addition, the same study found that many young people in childcare institutions have little mental health problems for whom psychiatric care is provided. The study showed a gap between the health problems of children and the competences of child protection providers. Health professional competence is not required of child protection institutions. Institutions are not designed to deal with children and young people with severe anxiety, depression or other mental disorders and at the same time serious behavioural disorders. It is an explicit objective that no children should grow up in an institution, but nevertheless children and young people need to be taken care of in-patient care in mental health protection or in municipalities. The number of daily places for children and young people in mental health protection is low. The availability has declined from 2.8 daily places per 10,000 inhabitants between 0 and 17 years in 1998 to 2.6 places in 2015. The Health Directorate’s report on waiting times and deadline breaks in the specialist services from the second quarter of this year shows that the number of daily stays was reduced by 8.3 p.m., and that the number of weekdays was reduced by 16.5 p.m. This means that the average duration of daily rest periods is also reduced. This means that health care for children and young people’s mental disorders is mainly provided in outpatient settings. The director of Bufdir, Mari Trommald, said to the VG on 12 October in the fall that the reduction of the supply of children in mental health protection is one of the reasons for increasing the use of one-off measures in the protection of children. In September 2019, the Health Inspectorate delivered a report entitled ‘When children need more. Care and framework.’. In this report, health surveillance has focused on four children with major challenges. There are children who need continuous surveillance and close follow-up over a long period of time from child protection and mental health care, and who themselves are unable to understand the need for mental health care. To a large extent, it applies to children who live in a child protection institution. Oversight has shown us that in several cases this has ended with disaster – and that's not my word, that's what the Health Authority itself uses. They also write: ‘Health surveillance may be provided by: Today we do not see that we have a well-functioning measure that will most likely succeed in providing these children with good and proper care. There is a lack of multi-disciplinary joint action that explicitly targets this group of children. There is a lack of sufficient availability, competence and legal framework for its activities.» In some of the supervisory cases, both the services themselves and the county asked whether a child protection institution was right for children with such a high level of care and treatment needs. And the report says that the County Council ‘is concerned that seriously ill children and young people are staying at child protection institutions when they really need a more comprehensive psychiatric offer’. Furthermore, it says: ‘In some cases, child protection services failed to apply for or to complain about long-term admissions to mental health protection for children. The reasons for this were the perceptions in the services that it was not useful because the daily places for children were few or not available and that there was no ‘possible’ for long-term stay in mental health protection for children. This was in addition to the fact that outpatient psychiatric care was not provided because the child in several cases was opposed to help.’ The Health Inspectorate further looked at ‘examples of children being rejected from mental health protection when long-term admission was possible despite the agreement of all services that it was the right offer.’ Health surveillance also writes in the report on the two new child protection institutions where children are also to receive health care from mental health protection. However, according to the Health Inspectorate, they cannot see, as they read the target group description, that these two institutions would provide adequate follow-up to the children mentioned in the supervisory report. Thus, the review of the health service has revealed factors that have an impact on the safety and quality of the child protection service and the health service. They're pointing at ‘a group of children which we do not see as having a proper service offer and where the legislation is not adapted to the needs of children for care, care and treatment.’ Public health monitoring in the report should be considered in terms of policy-makers, i.e. advice to policy authorities. The Children’s and Family Directorate and the Ministry of Health and Welfare are asked for the following: ‘Assess the establishment of a separate type of measure, anchored in its own law, for this most vulnerable group of children in the protection of children referred to in the report. The focus should be on clear legislation and framework, proper and adequate competence and stable institutional areas where the child can live for as long as needed.’» And then I want to mention that I've been recorded by several mothers in the Stavanger area, which I know has also been in the department. It is mothers of girls who have been seriously mentally ill. No one has exposed their children to care failure. They write: Imagine that your child, or a child you know, has been assaulted or another trauma and gets very sick – so sick that a person gets severe mental illness, gets depressed, suicidal. Do you think, then, that your child should receive the treatment he needs in a child protection institution when he or she really needs health care? Would you feel the same way if your child became seriously ill with cancer and required day - to - day treatment in a bed post? Would you have thought that the municipality would solve it? Would you have thought that a child with autism or a mental retardation should receive care and help at a child protection institution even if there is no care failure? According to Stavanger, these mothers do not provide treatment in psychiatry for children between 13 and 18 years of age. There is only acute supply. For adults, treatment is available. What happens to vulnerable children is that children and youth psychiatry, BUP, contact child protection when the acute phase is over. Then it is recommended that the sick child be sent to a detention centre. For parents who fight their lives for their sick child, and who are in a crisis, this becomes an additional tax, according to their mothers, in addition to the fact that the child does not receive the necessary health care. 60 pst. of municipalities in the country reports that mental health problems among children and young people are the main challenge they face in public health and prevention work, while only 30 pst. states that this was among the areas where the municipalities had seen the most measures taken. The SINTEF report on municipal mental health and drug work from 2018 shows that the supply to children and young people with serious illness is worse than to adults. Local authorities report that the most seriously ill children and adolescents have the worst supply. 67 pst. for children and young people with severe long-term suffering. This shows that there is a great need to develop the provision of services to children and young people with mental distress and suffering. I don't think we can accept that our most vulnerable children have the worst offer. My question is, what does the government do to provide vulnerable children with the right health care? Will the government stop the construction of child and youth psychiatry? And what is being done to secure a defensive offer in the municipalities of seriously ill children?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e2587	I am pleased that the representative Toppe has promoted this interpellation. It is very worrying that several supervisory reports in recent years have shown that cooperation between child protection, mental health protection and municipalities is not good enough. Lack of cooperation is evident in several ways: children in child protection often do not receive the healthcare they need; and children in mental health protection do not always receive adequate care services in the area of child protection. Children in child protection often face both mental and physical health challenges, and many need help from more services — at the same time and over time. The risk of falling between chairs is high. This situation cannot be accepted either by me or by the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, and in recent years we have had a targeted effort to bind child protection and health care more closely together. Among other things, we have introduced a function of health care at all child protection institutions and a function of child protection in the field of mental health protection for children and young people. Another action is the interaction process for child protection, mental health and ruservices launched into spring, following the model of a mental health and drug package. When child protection and mental health protection work together on such a process, it becomes clear what the child needs and how the services can work together. There are also two child protection institutions in Bodø and Søgne for children with particularly high needs for help and care outside the home. In these places, there shall be health professionals as well as child protection staff so that children can receive both care and health care under the same roof. Psychiatric health protection is a main theme of a new national health and hospital plan. In this context, I have commissioned the Health Regions and the Health Directorate to address the need for future mental health protection capabilities. It also applies to mental health protection for children and young people — both daily, daily, outpatient and outpatient services. This will be an important basis for further planning in health regions. I am concerned that we must prevent sick children from getting involved in child protection measures because there is no offer in the municipality. It often fails in the transition between the specialist health service and the municipality because there is no professional link. It is not necessarily because the municipalities have no offer – we have done a lot to strengthen the community’s work on mental health – but because the interaction is too poor in many places. An important objective of the government’s stepping-up plan for children and young people’s mental health is that healthcare needs to become more accessible and that services need to work more out-of-office. We have long had such outreach teams for adults with severe mental disorders and disorders. Now we want to provide outreach services also for children and young people who need comprehensive follow-up. The government will look at how interdisciplinary, outreach teams for young people should be set up and what skills are needed. Several models with outpatient teams are under test – among others. in Oslo, where two urban areas are now testing FACT Young for children and young people with high and complex needs. They have set up teams to provide integrated services from specialist health services, municipal health and care services and municipal/state child protection. Both FACT Young and other measures shall be evaluated. The evaluation will provide us with useful experience, which we will take into account in the further work on planning this service. Other models to build bridges between service levels are family meetings where the family itself assesses the services they want to involve and that admission to the BUP takes place in municipalities. I have asked the Health Directorate to evaluate this type of work and make recommendations to the health regions, which will follow this up and develop it further. I also want to follow up on what is said that children are being prescribed for the child protection from the BUP because they are too sick to live at home. I would like to invite the Minister for Children and Family Affairs to cooperate on this. We have had a meeting earlier today on better health care for children in child protection, where we also discussed just how to follow up and discover whether this is a development in which child protection is recognised. So it's important that we get better at using tools that we already have. Under § 3-2(a) of the Child Protection Act, the Child Protection Service shall draw up an individual plan for children requiring long-term and coordinated action or services if this is deemed necessary to create an overall offer to the child. Individual levels have not been used as child protection measures today, nor have regulations been drawn up on the use of individual levels of child protection, as they are in the field of health and care. We have launched many measures that, hopefully, will also work over time. I agree with the representative that there is still a lot to do to ensure good health care for children in child protection. But when that's said, I think it's important and necessary to nuance the image that the representative Toppe draws from mental health protection for children and young people. Almost everyone who gets help in childhood and youth psychiatry, 99 pst., gets this outpatient or outpatient. About 4 pst. are admitted to a day-care facility and usually receive out-of-patient or out-patient assistance before or after hospitalisation. Daily space is important when there are no other solutions, but I think it is fully possible to establish closer and longer-term follow-up for many children who can do well without accommodation. It is not that daily treatment in mental health protection is reduced during this government, as suggested in the interpellation. Under previous governments the number of daily places went down steadily, from 337 in 2003 to 301 in 2014. This government has prioritised mental health protection from day one, and we have managed to reverse the negative trend. In 2018, the number of daily places was increased to 310. That there has been a real growth of 5.2 pst. in mental health protection for children and young people from 2014 to 2018, also demonstrates that mental health is an important contribution to the government. The emphasis on mental health is also displayed in municipalities. In recent years, there have been 2,500 more annual works in municipal mental health and drug treatment, and from the new year, all municipalities have a duty to have psychological competence. Good over 90 pst. of the municipalities now have psychological competence, and the number of psychologists in the municipalities has increased from 130 to more than 600 since 2013. The government has done a lot to improve cooperation and build bridges between health care and child protection, but we should have come a little further to close the holes. Autumn headlines on children in need of comprehensive health care for only child protection measures show this with all clarity. The Minister for Children and Family Affairs and I will continue to work hard to provide vulnerable children and young people with the services they need. This is a work that we are doing well, but which we will also strengthen in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e2627	Thank you to the Council of State for your answer. I am glad that he says that he takes seriously that children are being expelled from the child and youth psychiatry of child protection, and that they talk together at the state council level to continue working on that issue. It may be more relevant in some regions than in others, and there are some health regions with more treatment sites in children’s and young people’s psychiatry than elsewhere. I mean, in any case, it's not acceptable with such a practice, because this is about seriously mentally ill children who need health care, and if they can't stay at home, they have to come to a place where they get health care, and one measure in child protection is not the right place, at least not as one measure has now worked. I also understand parents who react to it. This debate and situation show that there is a treatment gap between specialist health services and municipalities, and despite the fact that one has had an increase in municipalities in drug and mental health, that is not enough in relation to what is needed. I think that when the BUP refers to a single measure in child protection, it is because there is no alternative in the municipality. I think you have to start working on building up such an offer. If you do not want these children to be in the paediatric psychiatry during daily treatment, there must be an alternative arrangement for them in the municipality, which currently does not exist the vast majority of places. And what I think is the job that needs to be done now. I think that the construction of bed places in psychiatry has gone too far. In childhood and youth psychiatry, there was a decrease at least until 2015, after the speech I have read, and then it has increased somewhat afterwards. But I don't have to discuss who's fault this is, because it's been a misguided professional and political change of mental health protection, but my point is that this has gone too far, and now it has to grow. This one, in my view, no longer needs to be done. This can only be decided. These were my immediate comments to the Council of State's response.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e2638	I agree that it is important to go beyond what may seem like a child and youth psychiatrist who prints out children to child protection measures also in cases where the best thing for the children would have been to have a daily place in childhood and youth psychiatry. It is not certain that this is a national phenomenon. It may be a local or regional phenomenon, and it is also one of the challenges in this area when, consistently in the national debates, we only discuss the national figures, for example. in the case of daily places. Because it may be true that in some parts of the country we have too few daily places in childhood and youth psychiatry. And in other places, they might have a pretty good number, and in some places they might have too many. We have now received a kind of health report on mental health for adults from Health Nord, which shows to a very large extent that there may be a very clear link between the use of the offer and the dimensioning of the offer, and that the dimensioning of the offer may be much more governing the offer than the actual need for the residents. That's why it's so important for the mission that we've now given to the Health Directorate to go into, along with health regions, and look at what's going to be a real need not only within 24 hours, but also the other mental health services we have in the future, to make sure that we get a more equal offer between the regions. So it's important for me to stress that it won't always be wrong for children's and youth psychiatry to print out children's offers in child protection. The fact that children are outsourced to child protection does not mean that they are not receiving health care, but that means that they receive their care services in the field of child protection, and their health care, for example. outpatient, from childhood and youth psychiatry, in the same way as children who are posted to home, who live at home and receive the policy offer of child and youth psychiatry. It may not be that if there is either something about the home situation, or if the child has such major challenges that the family does not see the child to move home, they should therefore be in a day-to-day position in the paediatric and juvenile psychiatry, if the best, comprehensive offer would be to live in child protection and get their outpatient offer from the paediatric and juvenile psychiatry. But these are the conditions we're now going to go into. Then it is still that we will need to work a lot to ensure that we have an even closer cooperation between child and youth psychiatry and mental health, but also the physical health, which the Children's Ombudsman has been concerned with in his last report, how we ensure that children receive help for their physical health, for example. when child protection assumes responsibility for care.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e2651	We have a big problem here in the country a day, and that's the situation in child protection. There's too much going on in many places, and one of the places where there's a lot of air is within the area we're discussing right now. I find it reassuring in many ways that the Minister of Health has taken the big seriousness, that children in child protection in many cases do not receive the health care they need and are entitled to. As mentioned earlier in the debate, the media has revealed several serious issues in which isolated measures are used instead of providing children with child protection – very vulnerable children with child protection, sick children with child protection – proper mental health care. This is unacceptable, and I think everyone agrees. The need for proper health care is high in the area of child protection. The Director of Bufdir, Mari Trommald, has, among other things: In today's Medisin earlier this year said that two out of three children in child protection institutions need mental health care, and she has also talked about not getting it. The Health Authority is talking about a disaster. This may not be so strange, because after the phase-out of the mental health programme was completed around 2008, resources and staffing have gone down. At least the last time I checked my local DPS, at Notodden in Telemark, they said that since 2008 they had dropped 25 pst. on crew. Then it's not so very strange that it also affects children's and youth psychiatry and children's protection. But it is good to hear that the minister understands that the situation we are in is not good enough. As I said, it's lying too many places, and too much. One of the things that you have chosen to lift in your efforts to improve the situation is that you want more skills and resources and positions for child protection. But these can't be doctors, psychologists and psychiatric nurses all of them either, so it's the health service and the minister of health who really needs to get there. The Children's Ombudsman was visiting the Center Party here at Stortinget when we had a large seminar, with participation from then on to say all parties. She then said that it was quite alarming for her to experience that there was no need for a health check on children either mentally or physically when they entered the care of child protection. It often doesn't happen until you get into the criminal justice system. She demands that we get it in place. That's not very strange. How do we give proper help and care when we don't know exactly what the child needs? The answer is obvious: it is difficult, it can even be harmful that we do not know. It's really very bad to think that those who are mentally ill get completely wrong treatment and help and care in child protection, it's bad to think about the families of those who are involved, and it's hard to think about those who work in child protection, who do the best they can, and have not had the opportunity to know what the children they need to care for. We as society have to do a better job, and we have to do the right job. I would like to point out that I now see that both the Minister and the Government have taken some action, and it is good to hear that the Minister for Health is talking to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs about this. But the most important thing we can do is we listen to the Children's Ombudsman, because she has a really good point. So she is demanding a health check, and we in the Central Party have now followed up with a proposal for a representative to be dealt with over Christmas, where we want children in the care of child protection to have a mental and physical health check, so that we can give them proper care. Since the head of the Committee of the Family and Culture Committee, Kristin Örmen Johnsen, was at the seminar we had and agreed with the Children's Ombudsman in an article in the Newspaper, I hope and believe that the Minister of Health is on the same line as Mr. Örmen Johnsen – and then I look at the Minister of Health and ask him if he thinks he can join in and support the proposal made by the Centre Party. Because I feel that the situation in child protection is everyone's problem, and it doesn't matter that we sometimes lift in a flock.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e2668	What applies to health checks is important. There was one thing in Bergen’s Official Journal – this summer, it was well – about a girl under the care of child protection who died of an epilepsy that was not treated adequately, despite the fact that parents had deliberately tried to warn about it. It's a terrible thing, and I mean we actually don't tolerate having such things. Clearly, there must be a basic health supply – for both physical and mental health – when the country has taken responsibility for mother and father. That's what I mean, I'm completely fundamental. I agree that it doesn't always have to, in any case, be wrong to show from the BUP to the Child Protection Service, but we have to be careful not to discriminate against children based on diagnosis. When mothers begin to compare their children with children who have cancer, there has been an ugly situation – then we do something wrong. Nor should it be that one refers to child protection because there is no other alternative in a municipality and children's and youth psychiatry no longer has room for them. That may also be the case in some of the matters we have heard about. I don't mean to talk about child and youth psychiatry in Norway in any way. They treat quite a number of children and young people in one year. Developments in outpatient treatment, ACT, FACT and day care or outpatient treatment are positive, but I fear that the day-to-day and outpatient settings have gone far too far, and that we are now in the process of getting too poor a professional offer to the most seriously ill children, who will need daily treatment. Although one has never had such good treatment with outpatient and outpatient treatment, some actually need daily treatment, and some of the children in child protection may be the most damaged. I wonder if the directive with the health care officer in Child Protection and Child Protection Officer in the BUP is a measure that is now working. I should have had a response to that, because it's relatively new. When it applies to the individual level, that it is not followed – what does one do to make this actually work? And again, will the government do something special to build up more provision in the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e2679	I would like to thank you for a good debate. Although we were few participants, and there was a short debate, there was a good debate, and not least a very important discussion, which brings forward a very good many of the challenges we face, which both child protection and child and youth psychiatry face. My assessment is, of course, that there will be a need for more resources in child and youth psychiatry in the years to come. We need to continue building up the offer, both the specialised offer and the offer in the municipalities. It is not to hide that even where there are good offers, we have challenges in getting cooperation between child protection and child and youth psychiatry to work. We need to get a lot better at getting the two services to see the kids at the same time and work with the kids at the same time. That is also why we have now sent the consultation process between child protection and child and youth psychiatry, which we have the ambition to start implementing during the spring. We hope that this will be a good tool to ensure that child protection and child and youth psychiatry work well together around those children who need help from both places. There will often be a lot of people, because if children have experienced as serious care failure as you have when you become, for example. Urgently taken over by child protection, there is every reason to believe that it has also put its mark on both physical and mental health. I also share the concern expressed here, which the Children’s Ombudsman has also expressed in joint meetings between me and the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality, that underlying diseases in the child are not being detected. These are usually children who have not gone to the health centre regularly, have not had regular follow-up by a regular doctor or by a dentist, and there has just been some of the care failure that has occurred at home. If, in addition, a person experiences a lot of shifts in care take-over, both between municipalities and between different interventions, as pointed out by the Children’s Ombudsman, it may take a long time before serious both physical and mental illnesses and developmental disabilities are discovered. In the case of child protection, the main focus will be on care and, where appropriate, the outcome of care failure. It is not necessarily where you have the competence to detect the underlying disease. So this is a theme. The proposal from the Children’s Ombudsman is something the Minister for Children and Gender Equality and I work together on, and of course also the Health Inspectorate’s report in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e2692	The debate on substance is closed. 12 is with the round.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-16.ana.ud298e2706	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
