ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e47	The representatives of Åsmund Aukrust, Morten Wold, Knut Arild Hareide and Marianne Marthinsen, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The called alternate for Oslo, Camilla Strandskog, is now taking the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e75	The representative Per Olaf Lundteg will put forward two representative proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e80	There are proposals from the representatives of Kjersti Toppe, Siv Mossleth, Geir Inge Lien, Bengt Fasteraune and myself on a national escalation plan for VTA sites. [[durable work]] And then – finally – comes the proposal from Geir Pollestad, Geir Adelsten Iversen, Nils T. Bjørke, Liv Signe Navarsette, Marit Knutsdatter Strand, Siv Mossleth and me on the social mission of agriculture – at least 50 percent of the sea supply of agricultural food by 2026.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e87	The representative, Kjersti Toppe, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e92	I will make a proposal from Geir Inge Lien, Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen, Marit Knutsdatter Strand and myself on measures to strengthen the medical services as an emergency medical emergency service and to introduce maximum travel time to medical services.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e97	The representative, Mr Liv Signe Navarsete, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e102	On behalf of Bengt Fasteraune, Willfred Nordlund and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a representative on the public evaluation of integrated strategic leadership in the defence sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e108	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting continues, if necessary, beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e128	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that up to six lines of reply are given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e137	In this proposition, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food proposes some changes in the law on new cultivation. Some changes are also addressed on a more general basis, i.e. the creation of legislation under the responsibility of the Ministry, and they are intended to repair some errors in the law that have occurred as a result of organisational changes and changes in other legislation. Not so much has been mentioned in the Committee's deliberations. What has been mentioned, on the other hand, is the amendment of the law that goes on the regeneration of ants. That is why the case has also received the timely name «the murder case». The size has decided that there should be a general ban on the breeding of ants. The Ministry has also been concerned in the proposed position with the possibility of granting exemptions from the general prohibition in order to enable Norwegian agriculture to continue to be developed and Norwegian agriculture to be able to grow strongly and continue to operate in a good way. In the case of new cultivation in general, there are several factors to be taken into account when applying for new cultivation. So also in the case of new cultivation of ants. The majority have been concerned with granting exemptions and the majority have looked at the proposed exemptions proposed by the Ministry and have agreed on them. It is important to note that the Committee points out that Norwegian ants store large amounts of carbon, but it is also important to clarify that we know little about how much is emitted from ants in the process of processing. At the same time, we know that draining ants will help reduce methane emissions. So there are some ambiguities about the cultivation of ants, but nevertheless we feel it is right to go for a general ban, but then of course with a good deal of exemptions. The intention of the majority in the Committee has been that agriculture should be properly taken into account. That is why we have also come to a concrete conclusion on what exemptions the majority of the committee wants the ministry to pay attention to. It may seem unusual for a committee to go in such a way and almost say what the department is going to write in a regulation, but as the ministry itself has been involved in this in its proposed proposal, the majority also thought it was natural that the committee said something about what was important to emphasize. With the derogations proposed by the majority now and which the majority believe should be emphasised, we are well aware that it is still possible in a good way to cultivate ant areas – as long as it benefits the farmer and to develop a farm. We have been very careful about being too concrete in our recommendations, but we thus give the ministry an opportunity to assess what is best for Norwegian agriculture, without getting a total ban. So all in all, the majority believe that this is a good medium way to develop Norwegian agriculture, get the opportunity to re-grow ants, while there should be restrictions on it. What is also important for the majority to emphasise is that it is the municipalities with their local knowledge to enforce this and to deal with the applications and, where appropriate, to approve or reject the applications, and the majority strongly believe that the municipalities are conscious of the task and ensure that Norwegian agriculture can continue to develop in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e150	For the Workers' Party, it's the whole thing that counts. We are concerned with food production, biodiversity and climate, and then there are five important reasons why the Workers' Party lands on the whole policy that we are doing. The first reason is, of course, the possibility of food production throughout the country. In some parts of Norway, ants are the main areas of interest. This applies, for example: parts of Møre and Romesdal and significant parts of North Norway. So if we in the Grand Duchy really want to make a reality of what we have adopted in agricultural policy, with food production and opportunities for food development throughout the country, a ban will be regionally outrageous. This is also the case, for example in the case of locally produced carrots from More and Romesdal, that if there is not to be a future for that business and that food production, it means that that food has to be replaced by something else. Unfortunately, that point is underlit in the document that came from the government. The alternative to eating vegetables produced e.g. on Smøla, will be imported and, in sum, may result in a carbon leakage causing an increase in climate emissions. That's why point two, which is important to us, is that we have a whole idea of what we can say is an accounting of both revenue and expenditure. In this case emissions have been reported, i.e. costs in the accounts of growing up, but the income – with fresh green plant growth that binds carbon – is unfortunately skipped. So that's why it's unclear what's the whole balance between bonding and emissions. So to the third reason, which is essentially very important. Through the treatment of the agricultural notification, the size has decided that we should increase food production in Norwegian resources. The government document suggests that we will not need more grass in Norway, that we will not need more feed, but it is, of course, directly contradictory to what the Stortinget has decided, that we should increase food production on Norwegian resources. Because if we're going to achieve that goal, we need to have more Norwegian-produced feed. So there's also an important reason why the Workers' Party has to say that we can't have such a ban on new cultivation if we're going to achieve the goals that we've put together in this room. Point four goes on that growing ants is something different today than it was 50 years ago. Now you can essentially use the top layer, and that is, you can get fresh plant growth up without necessarily having to turn further into ants. Point five is that food production is about the safety of our citizens. Unfortunately, there is too little light in the government's document and in the majority of the votes. Therefore, we need to think carefully about when making such legal decisions with significant implications for the overall food preparedness in Norway. If we compare with the Defense, which is another important part of our task of providing our citizens with security, I'm pretty sure that that kind of intrusive political proposal would get a much more principled assessment. That is why the Labour Party sees that we must take care of the whole. We have to make sure that there are nutritional opportunities for food production throughout the country, we have to think about the safety of the inhabitants, and we have to make sure that we can actually conduct together the food policy that we have adopted. We are clear that it is only the individual municipality that has the opportunity to grant access to approve cultivation plans for ants. With that, I take up the proposal that the Workers' Party is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e169	The representative of Nils Kristen Sandrøen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e174	The Economic and Social Committee has examined the proposal of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food on the amendment to the Law of 12 May 1995 on soil § 11 second paragraph on new cultivation, more specifically on climate considerations in the cultivation of ants. Norway has committed itself through the Paris Agreement of 2015 to reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 40 pst. by 2030, where the maximum emission cuts are to be taken in agriculture and transport. The size of the store has followed this through several orders to the government. Both through the 2012 climate agreement and budgetary decisions in the Stortinget, the Stortinget has asked the government to propose a ban on the cultivation of ants – and therefore this proposition to the Stortinget. The United Nations Convention on Climate Change constitutes the framework for international climate cooperation. Norway as a Party shall subsequently comply with emission targets and report on national greenhouse gas emissions. Liquefied gas emissions after restocking of ants are covered by emission targets according, inter alia, to: Kyoto Protocols. The size has also joined the government’s proposal that Norway assume a contingent liability of at least 40 pst. emission reductions by 2030. Norway will also cooperate on emissions in the non-quota sector. Norway will also have a target for such emissions. The main non-quota sectors are transport, agriculture, construction and waste. Agricultural emissions account for one-sixth of the emissions in the non-quota sector, and light gas after restocking of ants is included, inter alia. in these emissions. In 2017, agriculture stood for 8 pst. of the total greenhouse gas emissions in Norway, and then both methane and light gas. Most of the methane emissions are derived from the digestion of the animals, especially from ruminants. The rest of the methane emissions come from the storage of manure. Much effort has been made in agriculture to reduce emissions. Since 1990, greenhouse gas emissions from agriculture have fallen by at least 4 pst. Important reasons include less use of nitrogen mineral fertilisers, more use of power feed instead of grass and better use of milk production. We have also been presented at Geno with an ambitious goal of reducing methane emissions from the NRF Cue by 20 pst. by employing new technologies in the breeding process. There should probably be no doubt that most people in this room are concerned about climate, and that we are going to achieve the climate targets that are set. I am also quite convinced that farmers and others are also concerned about our climate. Because there are people who are really affected by climate change, there are farmers and their business activity. Nor are there any industries as dependent on weather and climate as agriculture. The summer of 2018 showed us that agriculture is vulnerable to changes in weather and climate, and the forecasts ahead say that extreme weather will become more common in the future. Knowing that the cultivation of bogs results in greenhouse gas emissions, it is necessary that we implement the measures to help reduce climate emissions. And taking care of Norwegian bogs and wetlands is an effective measure to reduce carbon emissions. I believe that, as big-time politicians, we cannot say on the one hand that we support climate-affected young people who are afraid of their future on the globe, so that we do not support some measures that can contribute to smaller emissions. With this proposition and the additional points that the majority, i.e. the government parties, are behind, the government will be able to impose a ban on the cultivation of ants in line with what the Storting has previously asked for. Furthermore, the government will also be able to design regulations and, where appropriate, amend them as new up-to-date knowledge becomes available. For here we have to be honest: it turns out that knowledge environments quickly produce new reports that hit their legs during previous reports. And then I would like to end by stressing that it is important that the home to exercise dispensation rights has been added to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e195	This is a sad day for Norwegian agriculture and for Norwegian food production. It's a sad thing, where the majority suggests introducing a general ban on the breeding of ants. It is a major intervention in private property law, based on a relatively thin factual basis. I thought the case spokesperson said it very well. He said that we know little about emissions, but then he went on to say that a «feeler» that it is right to go for a general ban. Then we're actually at the heart of this thing: One feels. This is symbol politics. One introduces a serious interference in private property law that goes beyond our ability to produce food, because a «feels» that it is right. It is popular in some environments to do this. The reduction in emissions is a little uncertain, but one feels it. No consideration for cultivation methods. No consideration for carbon bonds in soil. No, it doesn't feel so important. The centre party acknowledges that ants bind carbon, and hence we have also suggested that climate can be taken in as a consideration when assessing applications for innovation, but it would not fall to us, as a party that respects private ownership, which is occupied by Norwegian food production, to introduce a general ban on new cultivation. Because, in reality, we are talking about this, an approximate total ban. I thought that the representative Sandtrøen from the Workers' Party did well for cultivation methods and how this should have been assessed. It is districts such as Nordland and More and Romesdal that are particularly hard hit by this symbolism policy. Then we'll talk about the exceptional destinations. I'm reading these exceptional destinations. I see it's going to happen in special cases. There's a pretty sloppy outline already there. The legislation is bureaucratic and cost-effective for the farmer. None of the exemptions takes account of the climate. No, there are personal conditions at the farm and the farm that should be able to be focused, but very, very, very sluggish. The president of the left in More and Romesdal was out before this setting was given and promised a wide range of exceptional possibilities. The majority of the business committee has not been delivered. And then there's something absurd about this thing. If ants are 1,01 metres deep, a complete ban shall be imposed. Of course, if it is 0.99 metres deep, the matter is quite different, and one must be able to grant a derogation in exceptional cases. There is also a contradiction in the fact that using ants to grow food will not help you, but to use ants to build a parking space or a shopping centre, it is not so dangerous. This does not hang on to anything. I believe that the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party in this matter are failing Norwegian settlements. But when we come up with proposals for forest planting, CO2 funds for transport to business and climate action that will have an effect, they say no, it doesn't want to. The representative of Ebbesen said that agriculture is the hardest hit by climate change. Yeah, that's right, but that's not a reason why it's their responsibility to clean up. The primary responsibility lies with those who have created climate problems, not with those who are affected. It is a logical short cut to say that because agriculture is hit by climate change, it is the job of agriculture to clean up. We've said it many times in the Center Party: there's a difference between cows and coal. I think when we're going to solve the climate challenges, we're going to start with the sectors that created them. And history has it that agriculture is one of the few sectors that have reduced their emissions. So I look forward to the debate. I hope you can find out more about what is in the exception destinations. What has come so far is not understandable. With that, I take up the proposal that the Central Party is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e223	The representative of Geir Pollestad has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e228	The seriousness of the situation is too long for both Norway and other countries to take responsibility for the climate. We need to reduce emissions quickly. Norway's challenge is, of course, a double challenge. One is that we should at least halve only in the next eleven years. The government has announced 45 pst. ; SV believes that it is necessary to go even further than that. The second is that in just 20 years, all Norwegian emissions should be gone. For an organizational, industrial and political upheaval it is! It's perhaps the greatest upheaval we've ever been through as a society. She's quite monumental. And all of this isn't about being nice to anyone else. It's all about doing what we're based on. It is in this perspective that we are discussing measures in agriculture. It's all about preventing carbon storage from escaping into the atmosphere, whether it's fossil or other stored in the ants or the earth. Warming up the globe will lead to more release in itself, but also different cultivation methods will lead to emissions. These meet the agricultural policy objectives we have, where we actually want to use more of the land. There's a right in the tile. This is hard. These are hard questions for absolutely everyone in this room. SV supports a general ban and is also concerned with having wise, comprehensive exemptions. One thing is special, which makes the regulations very important for how we're going to deal with this. I'm from the coast. With the amount of rainfall there, it goes without saying that there are huge amounts of ants. In some parts, it's just ants. So there are also exemptions that go on that very thing. When owners lose other production methods, such as land losses, expansion, transportation and the kind of things, in areas where the only cultivation resource is bogs or production in bogs on mountain soils, exemptions are granted if it is of significant importance, etc. Clocks should be rough here, but the seriousness must be in this matter. I believe that we will be able to meet our climate obligations. The question is just how bad it's going to hurt, and when we're going to get started. It hurts less this year, and it hurts more next year. If we all of a sudden wait until we start approaching 2030 and bring in all the measures then, there will be a fury of the country as we know it. In SV, we have gone through other types of measures that need to be taken, and as now, among other things. is in a process in agriculture and in the government – what we know, based on the knowledge we have, could have an effect. Myr crystallizes itself as a very important measure, which means that we won't need to take other very large, dramatic steps in agriculture. Three percent of the land in the world is bogs, but one third of all carbon is in bogs. The screening of ants can have a big effect on itself. A theme that is very important to mention in this situation is that this is also an extremely important area for biological deficiency. And if one is not concerned with biological deficiency in itself: the ecosystem services this adds all of the nature we live by are absolutely decisive to have a functioning nature. The protection of ants as much as we can, and within a wise mind as the government is given a great responsibility to follow through regulations, and as the Storting has provided guidance through setting, is extremely important. There's one thing that I think makes us stumble a little bit at the end here. It is that this ban on the exemptions should only apply to farmers and food production. SV has been very consistent in this matter – both in the discussion we had in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, and in the discussion we had in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy – that this must be comprehensive. There can be no hierarchy in ants where agriculture is at the bottom. If I had decided what would have been given priority – if one at all had to go into the moor – it would have to have our agricultural production. Why should transport, construction and the type of industry not apply for a derogation, while this only applies to farmers? I thought it made a get a pretty dull taste in the mouth of the matter, and I expect the government to follow this up and be consistent.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e245	Since the 1880s, the Left has had a strong commitment to ants. At that time, myr was considered worthless, but well suited to obtaining people's voting rights at a time when real estate was a prerequisite for participating in democracy. At about the same time, serious digging of Norwegian ants began. It was a big commitment to getting more land. Today we know that ants are a natural carbon stock, in line with oil and gas made up of dead plant material over thousands of years. High water content and low oxygen prevent degradation, so that the peat stock is slowly built up as carbon stock. Norwegian ants store carbon equivalent to at least 3500 million. tonnes of CO 2 equivalent. It corresponds to the annual emissions of more than 1.5 million fossil cars. Annual new cultivation of ants is between 2000 and 4000 deer. In the period 2021 to 2030, the emission reduction resulting from today’s decision will be between 0.5 and 1 million. tonnes of CO 2 equivalent. Ants also contribute greatly to natural diversity. Several of the most threatened nature types in Norway are related to wetlands. There has been a debate on the ban on the cultivation of ants in connection with the case we are dealing with today. There has been a debate with varying levels of precision from different parties, which has found it opportune to present both the background to the decision that we are making and the work that the ministry has done in a distorted way. Firstly, there may be reason to remind several parties that the decision we are making today is a follow-up to the 2012 climate agreement, which was backed by a broad majority in this Chamber. It was agreed that the new cultivation regulation should be revised, so that climate considerations were also reflected in the legislation. Since the proposal involves interference with private property rights, it is necessary to amend the law, as the Ministry points out, in order to include climate considerations in the new cultivation regulation. Furthermore, a number of arguments have been put forward in the public debate that the ban on the cultivation of ants will weaken food safety in Norway and make agriculture impossible in parts of the country, because there is no alternative to ants. The most well-known may include: the carrot beans in Smøla have become. Finally, it is important to point out that the legislative amendment of the Ministry aims to implement after we have received the legislative decision today will include, where appropriate, exceptional provisions. In the committee, we have also clarified some cases we believe it should include, which I assume will be followed up by the government. I allow myself to quote just this from the committee's majority comment: ‘1. The derogation may be granted in ‘specific cases’ and the derogation scheme to be administered by the municipality shall be linked to the applicant’s needs.’; This will not least address, for example, the need of carrot producers in Smøla. ‘2. Compensation may be granted when the owner loses other production areas due to losses of land leased, expansion, promotion or similar. 3rd@item: inlistbox Dispensation may be granted in agricultural areas where the only crop resource is bogs, or in order to provide for the specific production of bogs on mountain soil.’» As mentioned earlier, we have just granted exemptions related to industrial interests. With clarification of the ministry's thorough legislative work, there is no reason to say anything but that the balance between national and global climate considerations and the consideration of local needs and farmers in agriculture is well taken into account. On the question of food security, it is important to clarify that the responsibility for reducing greenhouse gas emissions is in line with the Storting’s own climate objectives, and not least the Paris Agreement and our other international obligations, on absolutely all sectors of society. Farmers and other self-employed workers also have to assume the good work already in progress to reduce the emissions of food production in this country. Reducing greenhouse gas emissions can be followed up by the non-breeding of ants, so that agriculture is naturally attributed when the accounts are settled. It is also important to take into account that the most important link with agriculture is to have a strict and restrictive attitude towards not building up the food we already have. It is absolutely important for the future what we are seeing today to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions, while at the same time safeguarding business interests. I would also like to point out – to what the representative Pollestad said – that it is permissible to have several thoughts in your head at the same time. I believe that agriculture is willing to take on the commitments it is facing, but at the same time, of course, the opportunities it offers for Norwegian agriculture in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e283	The issue we are dealing with today, of changes in the law on soil and associated new cultivation regulations, needs to be addressed in a broader context, where the world's nations have agreed to drastically reduce greenhouse gas emissions in order to prevent a global ecological collapse. In the context of the examination of the 2017 State Budget, the Government Parties and the Cooperation Parties, the Left and Christian People's Party, promoted proposals for a larger package of measures to achieve the climate objectives that Norway has committed itself to through the Paris Agreement. This Agreement entered into force on 5 November 2016, after the ratification by 55 countries, including Norway. Prior to the Paris Agreement, Norway notified that we would reduce our greenhouse gas emissions by at least 40 pst. in 2030 from the reference year 1990. In this package of measures, which was backed up by Decision No. 108 of 5 December 2016, there were several very important elements. Among other things, the four parties introduced a new climate law into the order, which would codify Norway’s commitments to achieve the climate objectives under the Paris Agreement. That law was promoted in spring 2017 and sanctioned on 16 June of the same year. Another measure that the four parties formed a majority for 5 December 2016 was to ask the government to propose a ban on the breeding of ants. Norwegian ants are expected to store carbon equivalent to at least 3500 million. tonnes of CO 2 equivalent and that ants as a nature type contribute a large natural diversity. Therefore, the protection of ants, not only against innovation but also against other forms of destruction, such as road construction and road and other infrastructure, will be an important contribution to meeting Norway’s climate obligations under agreements we have ratified. It is therefore important for the Christian People's Party that we, together with the other government parties and the SV, stress in a majority in the committee's position that a ban on the re-disposal of bogs as climate action should apply to all sectors of society, and not just to agriculture. We in the Christian People's Party are attending such an investigation, which will be in line with our magnificence, where it is established that the Christian People's Party will stop the destruction of ant regions. A few weeks ago, tens of thousands of children demonstrated in the streets around the world to send a clear signal to us politicians. The time for party rhetoric on climate action is over. Now it takes definite and concrete action to prevent us from leaving the globe as an ecological disaster zone to the generations that are coming after us. There will be measures such as fraud, which will require innovation, creativity and adaptability in all sectors of society, in all sectors of business, in general government and in the individual consumer, which will have to rely on the tax burden to be adapted to the climate pressure that each individual leaves behind, through the choices that they make in the consumption of goods and services. This is the first of a wide range of issues in the years when we, as politicians and decision-makers, are really faced with the difficult challenge of weighing industrial interests into consideration in terms of climate obligations and the responsibility for the life base of future generations. Unfortunately, it turns out again that in an important climate policy case, the Centre Party is totally opposed to taking this seriously. We in the Christian People's Party note with regret that the centre party as the only party in the committee rejects the fact that it is an effective measure to reduce carbon emissions to take care of Norwegian bogs and wetlands. There is also no reason to hide that this case has been demanding for the government parties. The balancing of nutritional considerations against climate considerations is a difficult exercise where a reinforced legislation against ant cultivation must necessarily lead to stronger ties for farmers in agriculture. It will be equally difficult in other industries, which also have to expect to face similar tough demands for climate action in the coming years. The objective of Norway has been committed to in the Paris Agreement, is firm, and the year 2030 is moving ever closer. Any Norwegian government must be independent of its colour and composition. However, it has been important for government parties to ensure that flexible and reality-oriented exemption provisions are incorporated into the amended new cultivation regulation and that the department is given the necessary freedom in the formulation of the regulation. It has been ensured by the majority of the comments made in the committee’s opinion. Work on the recasting of the new cultivation regulation must always be knowledge-based and based on the latest and most up-to-date information available. Like the other parties, we have noticed that NIBIO recently submitted a report showing that agriculture in much more municipalities than previously assumed will be directly affected by a tightened legislation on innovation. It shows in a good way the importance of providing the ministry with the necessary room for action to design the regulation in line with an up-to-date knowledge base. The same applies to up-to-date calculations of carbon emissions in the case of new ant cultivation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e310	The legislative proposal to be considered today stems from a decision in Stortinget from 2012 – a climate agreement – which agreed that the new cultivation regulation should be revised. This is because we see that Norway, which has a high consumption, has to take responsibility for the climate, not least in order to take responsibility for those who pay the highest price for climate change, namely those who live completely elsewhere in the world. The introduction of such a ban requires a legal basis, and in December 2018 the government sent out a bill on amendments to the law on soil, etc. to the Storting. The legislative proposal proposes to provide a basis for laying down rules on the re-cultivation of bogs in accordance with the need for reduced greenhouse gas emissions. The bill also includes other minor changes in the law under the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. The proposition was presented in Stortinget before I took over as Minister of Agriculture and Food. The question of a ban on the cultivation of ants is no simple matter, I would still say. I would like to point out that the proposal has met with great resistance in the consultation round and has received a lot of attention until today. The proposition is based on supporting material from the Norwegian Institute of Bioeconomy and questions have been asked about what the proposed restrictions will mean for agriculture and the climate. Several of these questions are difficult for the professional community to answer, with two lines below. However, I believe that the proposal is based on sound knowledge. The knowledge base for ants is continuously improved. We get new knowledge, and NIBIO's report of March 2019, Land statistics: Affordable ants, is an example of that. The report shows that there is a more complex picture of the availability and distribution of arable land in Norway than in the past. It underlines that there is great local variation in the ant portion of the arable land around the country. I believe that it is important to take into account changes in the new cultivation regulation, in particular in the design of the exemption criteria. It appears from the proposal that the general rule should be that re-growing of ants is not permitted for climate reasons. However, the proposal provides for a derogation allowing municipalities to authorise the regrowing of moorland in specific cases. I also refer to the majority of the Business Committee, who are in favour of a system of exemptions. The majority of the Committee has also listed five points which should be emphasised in such a regulation. I would like to take these majority comments with me when the final exemption criteria are to be drawn up. I would have to consider that in the further work on defining changes to the new cultivation regulation. The majority of the Committee has emphasised in its vote that a ban on the re-disposal of bogs as a climate action, with regulatory rules for the granting of derogations, should be addressed to all sectors of society, not just agriculture. It must be assessed in a separate process. The decision underpinning this proposition is only linked to the prohibition of new cultivation, but it is incredibly important to include it. Finally, I would like to stress that I would like to stress the importance of finding solutions that will take account of both the climate and agricultural concerns in the further work on amending the rules on innovation, which this matter is really about.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e331	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e336	How much does a general ban, with the dispensation ratio described in the setting, give by reduced CO2 emissions?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e341	I think that the representative Pollestad knows that this is about a law firm to be able to change a regulation, a regulation to have a goal of reducing CO2 emissions. When I'm going to change that regulation, I have to take with me the knowledge that not only I, as the Council of State, are sitting on, but that the trade unions are sitting on. In that case, the rule, with the derogation referred to by the majority of the Committee in the five points of the vote, must remain as a footprint to ensure that the regulation meets both the criteria set out by the Committee and provides for a real and effective reduction of CO2 emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e346	It was a very concrete question and a very long and a little incomprehensible answer. The centre party is of the opinion that when we are going to intervene so extensively in private property law and in food production as such, we need to be sure that it actually works. Here the multiple has added up to a dispensation ratio. Well, there's a little bit of a proposition about emission reductions. But I want to repeat my question: how many tons of CO 2 is it expected from the department's side that this will actually give? What I mean is a pretty important question to get an answer to, and I want to get that from the council now.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e358	I understand that the representative Pollestad wants a number of the Council of State. I can't give that number here right now. But what I can say is that in the regulation, I will facilitate the care of both the climate and agriculture, of which the Senterpartiet and Pollestad are concerned. So I want to say that it's a little remarkable that Pollestad comes up with this question. He himself took part in the 2012 decision to create an innovation regulation on climate, but when the challenges arise, he chooses to sit on the side.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e365	I register that I have not received an answer to my question. I also record that one interprets the decision in 2012 as an order to impose a general ban. It wasn't. But I want to move on to a new question. What we're adopting today is just a change in the law. It states that the Department can provide evidence of climate concerns. Now the department is going to do the regulatory work on this. If new knowledge shows that a general prohibition is not justifiable, will one consider regulating it in another way, as the law opens, rather than imposing a general prohibition?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e372	When a person is working on prescription and when a person is working on knowledge-based approaches to it, I think we know more and more, and we're going to know more and more, and knowledge can also change. Obviously, I want to bring with me new knowledge, up-to-date knowledge, otherwise I would use old knowledge to create a new regulation. No one deserves it. So it's clear that the department will take into account new knowledge when making the regulation. It was just supposed to be missing.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e377	A final question: does the current setting mean that we will have a total ban on the cultivation of bogs with depths above 1 metre?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e382	I notice that in the committee's work there are five important points, and there is no idea of anything above or below 1 meter in those points. I think I'm going to base what's in the matter, because what we're going to do, and then I'm going to take new knowledge into the work that's to be done with the regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e387	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e395	Today, farmers spread breakfast outside Stortinget, and Norwegian food makes us both good and saturated. Norwegian agriculture is sustainable. It's renewable. It's photosynthesis, and it's carbon bonding. I am very pleased that the Central Party today has made a proposal in Stortinget that we should have at least 50 pst. self-sufficiency rate by 2026. It's not a very big goal. I would almost say it is a minimum of what we must have in a troubled world, where the climate is also on the agenda. Agriculture in the world is 10,000 years old. In the Nordic region, there are 6,000 years, and now this government manages to claim that there is food production that is the climate problem. The rapporteur says that ants are a stock for large amounts of carbon, but we know little, he admits. He admits the ambiguity, but still the government is in favour of the ban on ant farming. At the same time he says that it should be possible to cultivate ants, but what does the government achieve? One introduces a ban that one does not know about. One introduces a derogation system whereby it can still be grown. What happens is that the government imposes more bureaucracy on farmers, more costs and probably a no for cultivation. To the point that we don't know if it works: it's not just the case rapporteur who says he doesn't know if it works. Nils Vagstad, Managing Director of NIBIO, replied to a reading article I had in the Nation: ‘We have reported measurements showing that cultivation by excavation appears to reduce emissions significantly.’ And then he says, ‘It is also possible that there may be a net bonding of carbon in the mineral soil applied to the ant layer’. What's done doesn't have climate impact, at least it's a very uncertain climate effect. That's the price the government is willing to pay to keep the Left in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e416	By 2030 this country shall cut at least 40 pst. of its emissions, and in the government platform we have raised the non-quota sector target to 45 pst. Norway is going through a major transition – in eleven years we are going to make this happen – and we are going through that transition in cooperation with industry and industry. And that is why it is being negotiated with agriculture for the first time, negotiated with fisheries, because for the first time this country has a global climate policy for all sectors. It hasn’t happened before in Norway, but it came with the centre-right government. I just came from a debate on carbon capture and storage, CCS. Well, in nature there are also natural carbon stocks, and ants are such a stock. After drainage and cultivation, the peat in the ants will gradually decompose and be a source of greenhouse gas emissions. That is why the proposal we are dealing with here is important, and this is a proposal on which there has actually been an agreement. Firstly, there is a professional consensus – that is now the one – but the second is that in 2010 the centre party was for this proposal, when they sent it out to the hearing when they had the Minister of Agriculture. But now they're in opposition, and they're in opposition to any climate action. It's part of their opposition role, and that's why they're now saying they're against. We will be tested in the future on what important measures we will be willing to implement in the transition that Norway will undergo. Not all measures are going to be popular in all sectors. It is clear that when such an ambitious goal is set — both for Norway, Europe and the world — yes, some of the measures will be seen as unpopular. But that doesn't mean they're not important, and that doesn't automatically mean they don't work. I am pleased with the proposal that is on the table, which the Stortinget is dealing with today, and I am pleased with the consensus that is there. And then I see that the Center Party and the Workers' Party failed in the first test. I know that the Workers' Party has for a long time tried to build up climate resilience, but they should know that it falls when you fail when the concrete proposals come on the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e427	The climate crisis the world is in the middle of is serious. If we are to be able to solve it, the whole world, including Norway, needs to be vacuumed for greenhouse gas emissions. Everyone has to contribute. Myra stores large amounts of carbon, and in addition, it is the habitat of a number of species in nature. Therefore, SV supports the proposal for a general ban on the breeding of ants. But it is a great paradox, a great flaw in the government's ant policy, because, while they – affordable enough – will ban the cultivation of ants, they are for the construction of the same ant. So while the farmer refuses to grow ants, owners of shopping malls or parking spaces can have a yes to building down the same ant. If the government were really concerned about cutting greenhouse gas emissions and taking care of the amazing natural wealth we find in ants, they would have voted in favour of SV's proposal earlier this year to also ban the construction of ants. But they did not; they voted against our proposal. So they think it's good to build down ants as long as you don't cultivate it. However, in the name of propriety, I must also note that both the Centre Party and the Workers' Party – which is now harbinging over the fact that buying centres and parking spaces are allowed on ants, while banning new cultivation – also voted against the SV's proposal. They also voted to allow shopping centres and parking spaces on the moor. I had expected a certain coherence in the policy from these parties as well. Then I'd like to add that when we're at the international climate negotiations, we all agree that the world has to take care of its ants. Norway spends large sums of money each year on the protection of its ants by countries such as Indonesia, and I think it is almost unanimous among the 169 representatives of the Grand Duchy that Indonesia has a great responsibility here. But when we get home, we split up, as we hear in the discussion today. When we are asked to take care of our ant areas, we split. I don't get it. Some in this Chamber therefore believe that it is essential that Indonesia should take care of the ants, but not we in Norway. There are several parties in this Chamber who should today take a serious settlement with the screaming lack of coherence in their own policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e441	I want to say that in the future, it's important that across all parties, we think practical when it comes to food production and biological industries. Because what's the mood in this room is really pretty clear among the majority of us who are here, that an innovatory ban is made on a very uncertain basis. We can be honest with each other about that, but it should have a consequence in the future: that we think completely and practically when it comes to food production, what we're actually going to live on. For one thing that strikes me, no one here has said anything about what the overall consequence has been, for example. a new crop that occurred 50 or 100 years ago, or longer than that. In the picture behind us we can see cultivated land. If it was grown at Eidsvoll around 1814, the fresh plant growth – if it has been done by a real professional with knowledge of agronomy – has combined so much bond that the growth of new plants may have been positive? No questions asked. That's why it strikes me that we're in a time when we're making quite big, dramatic choices without necessarily thinking well enough about the overall, long-term consequences of the prohibition decisions that are coming. Because I think we can be honest with each other on one thing: if we can impose a ban on innovation on this thin basis, there are quite a number of prohibitions we can impose in the future in the Storting. There are a lot of prohibitional decisions that could certainly have given rise to an impact on emissions. Then I want to draw a parallel to what has been done earlier in Norway to create future-optimism and hope. Norway has sometimes been a country from which people have wandered. One of the things you did when you tried to create brighter prospects for people in our country was that the community, the state, contributed to new cultivation, and some of the areas that were cultivated were both forests and ant areas. This helped people to get a living in Norway. Have those areas gone into plus climatically? It may be, but no one asks questions about it. I would like to point out that what we know at least is that the Labour Party's overall policy provides increased biodiversity in Norway and in the world, it gives lower emissions globally because it will increase the production of food and feed here, and reduces the imports of soya from Brazil.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e454	The President would just like to point out that the view is still great through the window that the President lives in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e459	I have trodden a lot into ants in my previous life, and ants have traditionally been viewed as worthless nature – vassal land that is the hatchery of mosquitoes and other plague spirits. That's the way it's been. It was about putting the plough down in this, getting it drained and grown up. It was natural, and the way we thought. But now we know so much, much more. There are two crucial and important values of ants. One is that the carbon stock function, which many people have talked about here today, is undeniably important. The second is that it's a home for a lot of specialized species. It gets very quickly forgotten here in the hall, the part that goes on that it's a habitat for specialized species. With regard to carbon storage, we now believe that there is strong evidence that the ants mean enormous amounts to carbon storage. 950 million tonnes of carbon are said in several professional environments, and that is equivalent to Norway’s annual greenhouse gas emissions for 60 to 70 years! That's the perspective. That's the order of magnitude. The value is so well documented that we cannot ignore it. But the ants also have other functions, which we shouldn't ignore either. Myra is both a fungus and a filter – it’s very important – and we notice that when we have flood peaks, with climate change happening, that the ants mean a lot like water storage, and they clean water. Myra is also a habitat for so many species. I could ram up a bunch of species that I'm sure very many in the hall don't know. I could mention quarbekkasin, single-bekkasin, double-bekkasin, mountain antraces, many orchids, etc. Some species use the ants only in parts of the year — about as a good molt picks perhaps — but resting birds on migration depend entirely on ants to rest before they go on up to the hedges, even further up to the mountain perhaps. I would like to say that we will manage the sea, the forest and the earth in a thousand-year perspective. As far as the ants are concerned, I really think we have to say that we're going to manage them from an eternity perspective. They're putting on maybe 1 mm a year, maximum, and then we're talking about a five-metre-deep moor that might be 5,000 years old. Think about it -- 5,000 years old. It started growing when the ice retreated into the areas here, for example. We have to have that perspective in front of us. As the representative, Haltbrecken, said, at the same time, is being reduced to such an extent. Bit by bit disappears important parts of Norwegian nature — and it's myra.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e476	The representative Nävra has experience from clay soil, and we stick to the clay soil. But those who don't have clay soil may have to go to the moorland, so I would recommend the representative to expand his repertoire in agriculture. When you don't distinguish renewable from fossil carbon in such a debate, it's just wrong. It's the fossil carbon that's the problem, and it's the renewable carbon that's the solution. It is quite strong to experience that one now receives a change in the law, where one also from a so-called – and I stress so-called – bourgeois government with the right in the head restricts the content of private property rights. And people wonder, why in the world does one do this? But it makes sense, because what this government stands for is that one needs less agricultural land in Norway — one actually has too much agricultural land in Norway. Because if we have as much agricultural land as we have today and are still going to increase imports, we get overproduction in Norway. That is why this government is helping to restrict ownership and to make it difficult to cultivate. Innovation is the last thing a farmer does, because it's incredibly expensive to grow land. And then it's incredibly expensive to dig and lime and get a soil structure so that it becomes fertile. It's a huge investment. So it's very well justified that you grow, because then other alternatives are less relevant. All other alternatives are actually better than soil cultivation. And then one here is going to create further problems for this. The representative, Reten, says that the centre party does not take the climate in. I'm going to take it in, and I'm going to take it in, and I'm going to take it in, and I'm going to take it in, and I'm going to take it in, and I'm going to We take it in by stimulating photosynthesis so that the plants grow better and the forest grows better. Thus the plants and the forest capture more CO2. It's positive, and it's double positive because the products we get then can replace the fossil products. That's great! But here in the hall, you're not talking about this, you're not talking about plant culture, soil culture, forestry -- you're talking about protection and restrictions and more imports. And then gives the impression that this murder ban is going to solve anything. There's symbol politics at the worst.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e485	When we wrote on 1 April, we could record a sad record, and that was far from a April joke – as far as it is possible to get. At Svalbard we had, for 100 months in a row, set a temperature record with temperatures well above what is normal temperatures. The ice is melting. The biomass in the sea moves northwards in search of cooler water. The coast at my place in Westfold is free of cod, and in exchange we have received a silent sea oyster invasion. Farmers report more growth days, but worse crops because there are more unstable conditions. The rainy summer of 2017 was replaced by the dry summer of 2018. It doesn't help how much oysters I eat – the climate crisis is not what we're waiting for. It's here, and it's now. Then we have to implement measures that actually work, and we have to do it now. It won't be pleasant, but the alternative is really unpleasant. As we have heard today, an ant is, by nature, a large carbon stock. After drainage and cultivation, peat will be gradually degraded and there will be a source of greenhouse gas emissions. The drainage and cultivation of ants therefore leads to large emissions of CO2 and natural gas. And despite the word 'light gas', this is anything but brilliant. Now the breeding of ants is not allowed for the sake of the climate. Nevertheless, as we hear, dispensation is available, and municipalities can authorise the regrowing of moorland in special cases. But everyone has to contribute, and we cannot close our eyes, even though one sector may now appear to be more important than another. Rarely has the Norwegian word for ‘While grass is growing, the cow is dying’ been more relevant. Because if we grow more grass on pristine ants, which is what they are best suited to essentially, then the cows will die in a few years because of climate change. And then it's a sad day for agriculture and food production – not today, on which the only representative of the Senter party was in his post. The food soil we've already grown is much better suited to food production than the soil found in the ants, which is, to a large extent, the best suited to grass. The ants that were most nutritious and best suited to agriculture are grown up, as in Westfold, where there is hardly ants left. Ants contribute a great natural diversity. A total of 183 endangered species — we heard them rammed up, some of them, here instead — and several of the most endangered species in Norway are linked to wetlands. We have significant emissions from land use changes like drainage of ants. It is estimated that Norwegian ants store carbon equivalent to many, many million tonnes of CO2 equivalent, or – if you want – hundreds of years of driving on Norwegian roads. The total amount of carbon in all of the world's ants is about the same as the amount that's in the atmosphere. A ban on the cultivation of ants is an effective measure that will contribute to the fulfilment of Norway’s climate obligations.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e502	It is particularly evident that certain representatives exercise the sloping safety of this interlocutory when the same representatives in the suspension state that the underlying estimates are very uncertain. So far, the Council of State also went into its article. That's what this case is. What I do not think one has been able to take on board in the preparatory process is that an innovatory ban is very uncertain, that it signifies a symbolic issue of greening the environmental profile of some parties, while others have considered it a low price to pay in government political drawdowns. It can be perceived as, and I think to the extent that it is right, that Norwegian food production, Norwegian farmers, which is an important part of the security policy reason we have as a nation, is not a larger group in this context than that one can view them as a cheap victim. Thus, a ban will dramatically affect Norwegian food production, and it could hinder our own growth in production when we become more, as the UN has so far said we should increase. So we're going to increase food production, and at the same time we're going to go for a ban that doesn't really give us any clear signals of any great effect. Even the same reporters who wrote that this might be an idea, later reports that say it might not be a good idea anyway. And yet you have this hassle of imposing a ban. The inconsistency is a long way off. When the Socialist Left Party and the representative of Knag Fylkesnes, who have stood up as a business policy guru for SV, have taken up the discussion on what will be appropriate for North Norway and for Norwegian food production in the north, it is only sad – especially at the same time as it is written in one note that it is 3 500 million. tonne, and in the next note, it says it's 950 million. tonnes. It shows exactly what I'm saying: there's a huge uncertainty here, and it hurts Norwegian food production. You can't make it clear that it gives the consequences you claim to have. Someone says it's uncertain. That was to the extent that the representative Ebbesen from the Right said it could be, while another representative from the Right said that this is the ultimate answer and the basis of fact. We don't have the facts, and that's why it's a shame for the climate struggle, which we're all supposed to be involved in, that ant cultivation ban is going to be the big mantra when it hits an industry that we're so dependent on – while at the same time having so big challenges. It should not be adopted, because we do not have sufficient basis today, and we do not have a framework in place that says what will be appropriate solutions to take care of the important wetlands, while balancing climate considerations against other considerations to be taken into account – including Norwegian food production.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e517	On the one hand, this is a debate on land use and food production, and on the other hand, it is a debate on climate. I guess that's why it's on the table, but the law of the land is on the nutrition committee. I have to say that the Labour Party makes quite a number of proposals to cut greenhouse gas emissions on the table, but then the climate politicians are not here. This is one of the cheapest one can do, and then there is one absence of those who want to spend a lot of money – also a lot of money on conserving rainforest and ants on the Asian continent, among others. It's going to be to buy yourself a little bit free. To the representative Sandtrøen: we are both from the Inland, and we have the proximity to the Østerdalen, the Gudbrand valley and the Valdres, with a lot of milk production, also a lot of cultivated land on the hill and a lot of land that is about to go out of business. It's much cheaper to keep the earth in claim, produce grass and keep it in the circuit than to spend so much money growing up a new area. When we look at the challenge we had last summer, with that dry summer, it reminds us of the importance of having water and irrigation systems, but also of having grasslands in operation. It brings a dimension into the debate that has not yet been here, and that is climate adaptation. The ant areas are a part of keeping water, to a large extent. It's important. In the Gudbrand valley and the Østerdalen, we have spent a lot of time on floods in recent years, and crop damage after last year's drought cost us 1.6 billion. kr. Climate change adaptation will be one of the major challenges for us in the short term. Then it's about not building new drainage systems and doing a lot of work, to keep that water. We have magazines that can help us keep the masses of water away, which have cleaned down through our valleys and brought with us a lot of space. There is also a part of this debate and a perspective that I think is missing. So CO 2 is a challenge, whether it comes from fossil or from biological carbon. It's a challenge, and this is one of the cheapest steps we can take. Agriculture is also going to take its share of the cut we're facing. Then I don't understand that a fighter was going to spend so much money on something that also gives us minus on the other side. Agriculture should fight for the climate adaptation and the most cost-effective measure now.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e531	Agriculture will take climate responsibility. Agriculture has developed 30 measures for the environment which they face and which they will take responsibility for. The representative Ebbesen says that the ban on ants is a very important part of achieving the UN climate target. There are direct errors, and there are errors in the basis for this case. For example, it says that only 12 municipalities are affected. It's not like that. Only in Nordland have 17 municipalities pronounced themselves. They don't want the murder ban. The county states that about 45 pst. of the growing reserve in the county is bog. Major agricultural regions such as the Lofoten, the Vestreålen and the Helgeland region have really no alternative to innovation other than bogs. Then I ask the minister and the government to remember that in Northern Ireland we don't have 3 pst. cultivated land. We only have 1.4 pst. cultivated land, but we have quite a lot of ants. Andres Bryn and others from NIBIO submitted a report in 2018 showing that the Norwegian ant area is 28,8 million. Dec, almost 9 pst. greater than previously assumed. In comparison, I have to tell you that the agricultural area in Norway is only 9.8 million. dekar. So I'm not worried about the ant being gone, although it's going to be possible in the future to produce food on it. I have trodden a lot into ants, sometimes into despair, sometimes into great joy over cloudberries and plants. What is found on ants is worth taking care of, and food production on ants is not going to ruin this. It's not ant cultivation that has created the climate challenges the world is facing, and it's not a ban on growing food on ants that can save the climate. So I wonder, when the government introduces this, what are they going to do with the many farmers who don't get cultivated land? How much will the compensation scheme be in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e541	After listening to the debate today, I think we should be very happy that our predecessors and ancestors were able to cultivate and maintain this country before we got the government of Solberg. And then I react a little bit when it is almost made that the Center Party wants to build down all the ants. Of course, we're not going to cultivate all the ants. This is about introducing a general ban or not. It also doesn't matter when you try to represent it as if you're against a ban on the cultivation of ants, it's the closest thing to take the climate seriously. Agriculture is one of the sectors that have reduced their emissions, and I would like to stress that in the Central Party's proposal too, we are in favour of a climate of concern. But we don't want a general ban. So I'm also happy, and it's important to stress, that the decision taken today by the majority in the Grand Duchy is not a burden on the government to impose a general ban. It is stated in the legal text that a ‘can’ introduce a general ban on the cultivation of ants. That's the way it was in 2010, as it was referred to. The red-green government wondered, "Can this be anything? We suggested it, we sent it on the phone, we read the hearing statements, we read the facts, and then we concluded: No, this is a bad move, we don't want to implement it. I think that a little bit of the difference between this government and the one that was, was that we listened. We listened to the recordings that came, we suggested it, we listened, we looked at the knowledge – and we concluded that we did not want it. Then I am also happy that the Council of State has today confirmed that there will actually be the possibility of exemption also for ants over a meter. It's a change from when the committee deals with the cases and the state council answered questions there, when it was said that there would be a total ban on ants over 1 meter. I would like to encourage the Council of State to use that space of action to give a voice access to exemptions that not only take the starting point of the user and the garden, but also take on the basis of which greenhouse gas emissions could give rise to any new cultivation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e558	I have learned to know the representative Lundtigen as a thorough and despicable person, and therefore I was disappointed with his post here instead. Lundtigen says that the government thinks we need less land in this country, that we're not talking about plant culture. This government is in the process of achieving an objective that we will not build up more than 4,000 targets of cultivation of land per year. There are targets that the red-green government was not near to reach when the Senter party sat with the Minister of Agriculture and Food. Lundtigen says that we are behind Norwegian agriculture. In the Granavolden Declaration, the Christian People's Party has been given the impression that the main lines are fixed in Norwegian agricultural policy, that we should have a varied agriculture with different sizes of use across the country – a government declaration that takes care of the interests of the Norwegian farmer. Then I'll finally ask a question to Lundtegen. It says in the committee mode: ‘The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the members of the Centre Party, would stress that it is an effective measure to reduce carbon emissions to Norwegian bogs and wetlands.’ It is a note anchored in the conclusions of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, a network of thousands of researchers who conclude that the protection of ants and wetlands on a global basis is a very important measure to prevent climate change emissions. Does the Center Party hold on to knowledge that contests what the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has come up with? In this case, I would be very grateful if the representative Lundtigen could share that knowledge with us.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e572	The representative of Nils Kristen Sandtrøen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e577	The representative Ketil Kjeseth spoke about the importance of using the earth throughout the country. That is absolutely right, and that is why we are going to consider a proposal from the Workers' Party later today to just use the land throughout the country. The proposal includes, inter alia: a point on ‘how food land can be used and adapted throughout the country to climate change in order to increase productivity and improve agronomy’. I will follow up on whether the representative, Mr Kjeseth, is voting in favour of that proposal. So far, it doesn't seem like he's going to do it, at least if he's going to follow the right-wing government. The Swedish Defence Research Institute points out that it is uncertain whether Norway may have, for example: a large soy imports in the years to come. China also makes an important contribution to that market, and it shows that we need to strengthen our own food production and increase grazing. It provides better security for people in Norway, lower global emissions and higher value creation. This is the Labour Party's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e586	First to the representative Steinar Reiten: I will praise the efforts of the Christian People's Party in terms of soil protection. Had it not been for the Christian People's Party, we would not have been given such clear and good wording on soil protection, so it is the great merit of the Christian People's Party. In the case of the Granavolden Declaration, it is precise that the main lines are fixed. I would recommend the Christian People's Party to follow what the Departmental Council of Leif Forsell says when he's at meetings around. He says there's enough space in Norway. Leif Forsell is a very skilled professional. He sees contexts, he sees the whole thing. He sees that if one increases areas in Norway at the same time as one increases imports, there is overproduction. It is the biggest problem of agriculture and society — a producer of a product that is not worth anything. When it comes to carbon and carbon transformation, which we're talking about here, we're talking about what's happening down here. We're talking about what's carbon down into the earth as a result of roots. It is clear that any cultivation of soil means that there will be a greater transformation of humus in the soil than if one does not cultivate the soil. That's the way it is everywhere. It is equivalent in forestry. If a just leaves the forest standing and thinking that it takes up as much CO2 when it's standing and standing – just like an old bull that's in the booth all the time, and that eventually doesn't grow anymore – and thinks that one can continue with it, because one can get a larger carbon content in the earth if the forest is just standing and standing, one is on the wrong track compared to the professional basis. We are in a very demanding situation. The evening position today raises questions as to whether an active forestry is sensible or not. Get it out of here! The evening post questions whether it makes sense to use the forest. It shows what kind of climate we have today, and what kind of situation we are in – the professional is abandoned. It's obvious that we now need to have a discussion about how we operate our agriculture, how we operate our forestry, that we can reconcile the different considerations, but we have to operate the soil. We have to grow new land, we have to drive the forest to get the green carbon that can replace the fossil. That's the big one. What replaces fossils here comes from the atmosphere. It reduces the CO2 content. It is the only carbon capture and storage system that works today – and it is completely free of charge for the state. Then you talk it down, and I react strongly to that. I hope we can have an alliance where the Green and SV Environment Party can discuss farming and forestry in the future. Then we can have a forward-looking policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e601	First, I want to say that this has been the first debate in the first case since I became the Council of State, and I think it has been exciting. I would like to thank the committee. We need more stuff. I would like to make a comment to Geir Pollestad, who spoke about 1 meter depth. What I said in my post, and as I also said in the lines, is what the majority has said in the five points that are to be emphasized in a new regulation. These points are somewhat different from what is designed, if you compare with the proposal actually had. They do not mention the boundary between land and deep moor. Therefore, in the light of that majority comment, I think that in terms of how the final exemption criteria are to be designed, I have to assess and come back to it. But I notice that there is no limit in any of the five points.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e608	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e613	I think it's important to get the professional fact that when a farmer is in the choice between growing land or bogs, they choose the vast majority of firmlands seams if there's huge amounts of rock there, all the way up to 500 cubics per deer. Why do you do that? That's because rocks are only removed once. And then you're done with it. But water that's in the ant comes all the time, it's always a problem, so myr is the last thing you go into. That's why this discussion is very little interesting, because there's no problem with the ant cultivation that we have today. We have to put this into completely different areas, namely the operation of the soil and the operation of the forest. There, state councils can do great things if she has the courage and dare to reverse government policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e618	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e634	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that up to six lines of reply are given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e643	Then I'll start by thanking the Cooperation Committee. The sewerage industry is an important Sami industry, an important food producer, a cultural operator and a family-based industry that needs to be secured by robust framework conditions and continued efficient operation. Economic, ecological and cultural resilience must be the driving force behind the policy of reindeer management. There is a interdependence between the three relationships. The centre part will focus on reindeer activities as a family business. Today we are discussing a proposal from SV about a bottom subtraction of 200 pure by reducing the number of reindeer in one page. This is in line with the clean-up selection proposal, with the background in a desire to screen the smallest units. The central party supports the principle of a bottom-up deduction and believes that this will be important in securing young people and the smallest reindeers against winding-up decisions. The work that has been done over several years to limit the reindeer count has been necessary. The development one had over several years, with a high reindeer, was unresponsive. The centre party will stress the importance of the implementation of retina reductions in a manner that is perceived to be fair and that creates forbearance in the industry. The centre party believes that a proposal for a proportionate reduction may have major consequences, because one in most districts has one or more inactive side-part-holders. We think it's going to be crazy about reindeer owners who actually live by the reindeer, must reduce their flocks for the benefit of these. It should be a goal that most of the reindeer should be owned by those who actually operate reindeer and who have expenditure and work with the animals. We believe that it is important that the second sentence of Section 60, third paragraph, also takes care that side-participants belonging to young people during establishment and/or side-participants who operate reindeer as a main industry and have less than 200 pure persons are unrecognized the requirement of proportionate reduction. Such words will stimulate the transfer of page parts to young people and strengthen recruitment. The proposal contained in Document 8:193 L for 2017-2018 may have the opposite effect, as it will make inactive units more attractive for purchase. In the setting, the centre party suggests a holistic review of the reindeer law. The industry has a long history of problem setting that shows that a revision of the law is necessary, but it has clearly stated that it must be considered as a whole, and not only in individual destinations where the authorities consider it necessary. It is serious that the government does not take this seriously, despite the fact that there are also many rulings that underpin this. The need for a holistic revision of the redeployment law was further updated yesterday, when the government presented proposals for individual changes. On that basis, I shall not go into that discussion any more. We will have this debate reopened when that proposition is completed in the Committee and will be discussed in the Stortinget. I just want to say that I get feedback that many people in the industry feel that the government has a target of increased state detail management, which is far from the basic idea of the 2007 law, which should increase self-management. I'd like to take up with it the proposal that the Center Party is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e662	The representative of Geir Pollestad has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e667	The sewerage industry provides us with safe and good food and uses grazing resources – for the benefit of our entire country. It's an important part of our common culture and cultural heritage. The working party has a reindeer policy platform, and we want a comprehensive revision of the reindeer management law. It is important for us, so that we can strengthen it together and deal with that matter in Stortinget. That is our important proposal today. Otherwise, we will subsidize SV's proposals. We support the principle of a bottom-up deduction and believe that it is important to ensure young people and the smallest reindeer against winding-up decisions, and we believe that it is important that reindeer reductions are carried out in a manner that is fair and that creates predictability for the industry. That's our idea of the overall revision of the reindeer management law. We also show that we have had consultation with the Sametinget on 22 May, and it is a strong wish from the Sametinget and the industry that we get for the complete revision. That is the position of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e678	We are dealing with a representative proposal from SV on changes to the Rein driftsgesetz § 60, which involves a deduction by proportional reduction of reindeer numbers. The aim of the proposal is to protect the smallest units and increase recruitment to the industry. It is well worth respecting to report only the SV, the Workers' Party and, in part, the Centre Party, which believes that there are too few reindeer in the industry. Purgatory is one of the most important Sami cultural carriers and is important to take into account both ecological and not least economic sustainability. Norwegian reindeer farming operates on an approximate constant area, where it is important that the total number of pure farms is adapted to the grazing basis. Organic sustainable reindeer management will provide the basis for the best possible economy in the industry, and ecological and economic sustainability will also be crucial for cultural sustainability over time. There is a shortage of grazing resources, and good management is required to maintain good weight on animals and good animal welfare. Since the 1950s, the purity has increased significantly and has been at a level that is not ecologically sustainable in recent decades. In order to ensure sustainable reindeer management, it has been necessary to adapt the reindeer to the grazing basis. For many years, the size has been on the Minister of Agriculture and Food that the reindeer have to drop. It has also been supported by the National Audit Office. Fortunately, today we have a powerful government, which has seen the importance of taking care of the reindeer industry and taking the necessary steps leading to reduced reindeer numbers. Sustainable clean-up will primarily benefit reindeer management, as adaptation provides improved grazing and better animal welfare. Furthermore, an adapted scale will increase production and revenue for all, including those with fewer animals. It is the reindeer management that is responsible for the compliance of the reindeer numbers with the rules of use. If the integer exceeds the prescribed number, the law has two ways of reducing it. The first option is internal justice, by the page itself drawing up a reduction plan. In such a reduction plan, the page may choose to shield young people, families and those who have previously reduced. Here the site has the full opportunity to extract so-called inactive reindeer, on which the Senterpartiet was in, those who are clean in the flock but do not reindeer, but have other occupations or live abroad. If the page itself is unable to find a solution for the reduction where they have the ability to shield the establishment and younger people who want to enter the industry, the Reind driftstyrelsen must take decisions on proportionate reduction, i.e. percentage equal reduction for all. Here the law does not open for another distribution of the reduction. That's the right way to do it. The industry itself has the ability to adjust the purity within the page. If the Purity Management Board has to enter, it is most appropriate to take a proportionate reduction. Many reindeer areas are struggling with economic sustainability. There are districts in all pasture areas that have a good economic yield, but the overall picture shows that reindeer management generally has a weak economy. There are still several low-weight districts in Finnmark, but there is a positive trend after the reduction of the reindeer number. The economic situation in industry is currently very demanding, and a bottom-up would, in my opinion, reinforce negative economic developments. At the end of the 2016/2017 operating year, there were a total of 122 side-shares in the reindeer pastures with a reindeer of less than 200 reindeer. It's a pretty big flock when you start summing them up. The SV proposal, which aims to increase recruitment to industry, will create an unfortunate nutrient structure over time and help further weaken both the ecological and economic sustainability of reindeer management. In conclusion, I just have to say that for the Progress Party – and the government parties – an ecological and economically sustainable reindeer industry is important in order to contribute to the preservation of Sami culture. That is why we cannot support the SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e703	The rest of the world, with topping and government, has a rather long and ugly history when it comes to clean-up management. This is well-recognized and has our regrets officially both by the king and by the Prime Minister. But one must have had a very preconceived view of both Sami culture and Sami cultural industries. In the first reindeer management laws, there were formulations that reindeer operations could take place. It was quite clear that the hierarchy on the land was such that one had some animals that were above others, and at the bottom of the hierarchy was reindeer. It had to give way to conflict. Many have happened since that time. This is our close history, but the 1980s, with both the development of Norwegian understanding of Sami culture and Sami industries, the United Nations processes, which also had a major impact on the rights of indigenous peoples globally, have had a major impact. One might say that some kind of vertex was then the size of just about. 10 years ago, a series of human rights issues were implemented into the Constitution. In parallel with this, the reindeer law selection also works. The proposal for a bottom-up deduction stems from there. Why is it important to subtract from the bottom? It is true that if a person recognises the reindeer industry as a cultural industry, as important for Sami language, Sami culture and Sami practice, as it really is too much of the Sami population, it is very important that as many as possible have access to the industry – not that there should be as many actors as possible, with as many pure but that the reindeer number should be spread to as many possible actors, so that the most possible family members have access to this industry, not that one should get actors, that maybe three-four-five-six large companies run whole reindeer on a wide scale, they hire labour from God knows each other. Then a broken mind has around reindeer as a culture-provoking nourishment. So this isn't just business, it's also an important job to preserve the dishes of indigenous people. The cleaning law committee's proposal on bottom deduction was never embraced by the red-green government, that's quite right, we've discussed that before. It should have been. It was then that one wanted rather to look at the different ways of fixing the reindeer numbers, a more complicated process, with which one has never really come to terms when it comes to the problem. Thus, the proposal is to establish a bottom-up deduction to protect the smallest actors, as we saw in Jovsset Ánte-saka. Had one had this law already then, the discussion around Jovsset Ánte-saka, which is now being discussed in the UN Human Rights Committee, would not have occurred. What has been a scary development, and which is my message to the Council of State, is that here we see a new conflict coming up on several fronts. A lot of it's connected to the reindeer. In questions about the law and the bottom line, among other things, we see that the reindeer industry is in great conflict with the big community, by government and by big business. We see that the Sami institutions are in the same conflict, and that many professionals are directly disunity in the basis on which the government builds its policy. It's very alarming. This is state women's art, and I would recommend the Council of State to move forward in a new way in this matter. A hearing note was issued on 1 February on changes to the reindeer management law, which is designed to amend the purpose paragraph. What's creepy about this change of purpose paragraph from the Sami side and from my perspective is that one takes out all the evidence that reindeer is important to Sami culture. In the worst case, it can lead to legal proceedings, because this can be contrary to our human rights obligations. I want to ask the Council of State to go in here with a clear head, with fewer people from the ministry, and engage in proper dialogue with Sami communities. Here we can really create a completely unnecessary conflict and break the principle we're very concerned about as a big community.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e718	The President shall assume that the representative shall make proposals on behalf of SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e723	Yeah, that's right. I'll take it up with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e728	The representative, Mr Knag Fylkesnes, then mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e733	I have to start with the last thing the representative Knag Fylkesnes said. I do not know if he has come to realize that yesterday a proposition was made through the Council of State, where one is just choosing to go back to changing the purpose paragraph of the Law of Reindeer – not to do so. In addition, there is a proposition that shows that the Department has addressed the problems surrounding the Law on reindeer management in such a way as to take account of the perceptions and feelings of the reindeer industry when making changes to such an important law for the industry. The Act regulates the framework conditions for an industry with centuries of tradition, which is today a very important cultural carrier in the Sami regions of Norway. You're going to have a certain amount of humility to deal with this. The purpose paragraph of the reindeer management law actually says it well. Clean-up operations shall be carried out on the basis of ‘Samian culture, tradition and practice for the benefit of the reindeer population itself’, as well as the ‘maintenance of reindeer management as an important basis for Sami culture and social life’. An important basis for maintaining reindeer management is that it is based on ecological, economic and cultural sustainability. Organic sustainability means that the number of animals has to be proportionate to the grazing basis. The proposers propose a bottom subtraction, initially of 200 pure, by reducing the number of units on one page and thus want to protect the smallest units. We record that in the setting SV has chosen not to mention a specific number in the proposal they promote. It might have been okay if the representative Knag Fylkesnes could explain why they have chosen to make that change in relation to the original proposal. Today, the side of its work on drawing up a reduction plan is free to take into account their concerns, for example: to protect the smallest units and to take account of young people entering the industry. The question of bottom deduction is not simple. On the one hand, consideration should be given to the smallest and their ability to operate reindeer operations, while on the other hand, account should be taken of those who currently have reindeer operations as their main occupation. A bottom deduction as proposed would mean that with the most pure they would have to take an even greater part of the reduction than with the current provisions. At the same time, there is a significant start-up pressure in reindeer management, especially in parts of Finnmark. In the long term, it will lead to a development in the industry that could result in a similar degree of purity where far fewer than today are able to be full-time professionals, given that enough actors are establishing themselves. Although this will take some time, it must also be borne in mind that a law will also last over time. Making full-time reindeer operations more difficult will also have a negative impact on reindeer management as a cultural carrier. The proposal for a bottom deduction of 200 pure was originally promoted by the reindeer law committee, but the government of Stoltenberg II considered it more appropriate to allow the pages to decide for themselves how a reduction should be carried out. The SV proposers, supported by the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, now want to amend a law that they themselves were passed when they were in government, precisely to facilitate reindeer activities as a cultural industry as the main occupation for nutritionists. It seems improperly strange. The Christian People's Party has stated that it is still more appropriate to maintain the ability of the sides to determine their own reduction model rather than to introduce a national deduction of 200 pure. That being said, the Christian People's Party still believes that it is both important and right that the size of the side-shares is still differentiated, with large, small and medium-sized flocks, as it has traditionally been. The Purity Act dates from 2007, and it provides a legal framework to ensure a greater degree of internal self-government in the industry. This has been a long and comprehensive process, including: by drawing up rules of use. A new and comprehensive review of the reindeer management law could now create uncertainty in the industry and open up new unfortunate adaptations pending possible legislative changes. The Christian People's Party, like the other government parties, therefore does not support the proposals that are being promoted in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e751	This document 8 is important and the issue is challenging. This has been discussed on many occasions and in many contexts. Initially, I would like to say that I, as a new government council, have had consultations with both the Sameting and the reindeer industry. I am incredibly concerned that the purpose of the reindeer management law should be firm. It must be ecologically bearer, it must be economical and it must be culturally bearer. This Trinity, I think, and the Christian People's Party is a great unity. These three things have to be there to get an overall nourishment. The introduction of a bottom-up deduction with a proportionate reduction in the reindeer ratio was proposed by the reindeer management committee when this sample submitted an investigation already in 2001. It's been a long time. In the regulatory proposals of the reindeer management committee, the traditional side was an important building block in the internal organisation of reindeer management, making the site important in different ways and at different levels. In the further work on the Law on reindeer management, a working group was set up to explore the role of the latter in the legislation on reindeer management. The report of this work was received in 2006, and one of the proposals here was that, if the page was more detailed, the page itself would draw up a reduction plan. In such a reduction plan, the site could take different account of concrete needs, such as: to protect the smallest units and to take account of young people in the establishment phase. Purity reduction on the basis of a reduction plan was the primary solution. Proportional reduction was only intended to come in as a secondary solution where the side through internal self-government had failed to draw up and implement a separate reduction plan. As the site itself was given this opportunity, the ministry considered that a deduction was not appropriate at the time. In the proposition, it was emphasised that such a deduction would in the long term lead to an unfortunate economic structure, by the fact that those who had more clean than the bottom subtraction had to initially take the whole reduction. It would lead to a weakened economic sustainability based on its purpose. In the years since the law came into force in 2007, the issue of the introduction of a bottom-up deduction has been under assessment, and I record that within the reindeer industry there are shared opinions on the question of acquiring experience through a comprehensive process of reducing the reindeer numbers in parts of Finnmark. The evaluations were made prior to the decision of the Storting in 2007 and are still on the table, and I am pleased that the majority of the Committee agrees with this. The size has, among other things, through the examination of the annual reindeer management agreements, expressed the objective of developing the reindeer management industry as a rational and market-oriented industry to be sustainable from a long-term perspective — and cultural and ecological sustainability. In the Annual Report on Repurchase Policy of 2017, to which the Stortinget has joined, an important element is to facilitate the main reindeer operators and, otherwise, to strengthen the family-based reindeer industries. A deduction with a proportionate reduction could gradually lead to a decrease in the number of reindeer farms. I can refer to the Ministry's letter to the nutrition committee, no later than 12 November 2018. The numerical picture has been clarified in the case of side-shares with a cleanness of less than 200, and it appears that a relatively large number of side-shares, which in total have a significant cleanness. Therefore, side fractions that have less than 200 pure do not form a small part of the pure number. That means that there are many people who have less than 200 pure, it will also be challenging for the ecological sustainability. For this reason, the Government considers that the provisions of the Act on the establishment of a reduction plan and the possibility of redistribution of the reindeer within each side are a better solution than the introduction of a bottom-up deduction.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e768	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e773	Berekraftsdimensions – this I think is a side discussion, because these are issues of distribution, burden distribution. A defined reduction, if any, and then the question is how this distribution should be. Do you want to create a screenshot of the smallest actors by law, or do you want a screenshot to be something that happens on the page? Then the question is, what type of action room does the page actually have, when there are such strict requirements for a deal? It has proved through the practice of this law that it is very difficult to create a deal. So you end up with a proportional reduction, one that has a so-called flat cut. How can one with today's law prevent the smallest actors from getting hit harder – that they are taken out of the profession because they are less pure?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e782	I also said in my post that this is incredibly demanding precisely because there's been a lot of culture, and it's really been hard to know both numbers of reindeer and what's ecologically sustainable. It has also been difficult to engage in dialogue, where I think the representative is quite right; there has been quite a distance in the dialogue. But with the dialogue I've now had with the reindeer industry in the short period I've been the Council of States, I think it's possible to get a way of doing this that's both economically and ecologically sustainable. Then I think that both the big ones and the little ones have to be involved in carrying that burden, precisely because it's very many small ones. If none of them take anything out, there will be a lot of work on the big ones, who have to pay a very high price.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e787	I think it's important that we have a clear understanding of what's the most important principle here. It's clear that this is an industry that is equal to any other industry. At the same time, it is crucial for the Storting – both by things that we have committed ourselves to internationally, the things that are stated in the Constitution, the things that we have in other laws – that we do not set up a race that ensures that many are pushed out of the industry. That's why bottom subtraction is so important – as a thought – because if one has a burden distribution where the little ones also take out, but where it leads to them disappearing out of the industry, I think cultural sustainability is what has to weigh more, not the economic sustainability. That's my assessment. The question then is: in the kind of assessment – where the dimensions meet each other, as here – what would be the priority of the Council of State on a principle basis?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e794	In the dialogue that I have had with both reindeer management and reindeer management, and in meeting with the head of the Sameting – my State Secretary has been in the Sametinget just to connect it – the purpose of all three considerations has been important. What I got feedback from the industry itself was that all three sides were important. Because taking away one of the sides, they feel that we're squeezing the possibility of the industry itself. Take away one side, both the cultural part, the ecological part and the economic part will be reduced. That's why it's been important for me to listen to what they're saying. Then I'm dealing with the goal, which is three-thirds – not just one side of that third.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e799	I think there's a lot of important concern to take, but when you're in a situation where you can push young actors out of the industry, I think it's quite obvious that the role of the big society should be to make sure that it doesn't happen, and then put up the promise. The last question is really about the level of conflict that has existed between government and growth on the one hand, and the Sami institutions, the reindeer industries themselves and professionals on the other. There is hardly any other area where the Stortinget only walks forward, even if both trade unions, employers’ organisations and professionals are opposed. But that's the way it is in this situation. So the Council of State gets into a situation that's burning, and it's stabbing deep because it's talking about identity. How does the government intend to proceed? Would the Council of State be able to work elsewhere? Has the government seen that there needs to be a change here – with regard to how the government has behaved?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e806	I'm in contact with minorities – no matter who the minorities are – about meeting with respect, meeting with understanding, trying to understand. It's hard, because it's a culture, but it doesn't have to be seen as an overture, it has to be able to get into dialogue. I believe that we have started to build on, and I am happy with the two meetings we have had, I am happy with the trust that lies there, and I think we have to build on it. We're going to have an understanding of both the cultural part and the ecological part, because at the end of the day, it's going to matter if someone gets forced out of the industry because it's not economically sustainable for them. You have to take it into account and try to understand. I don't belong to a minority, but I think I can show that respect and understand that work and the part of the work I'm going to do in this particular field.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e813	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e831	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that up to six lines of reply are given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e840	I would like to start by thanking the Committee for its good work on the matter. The Committee held consultations at the beginning of February with seven participants, both from industry and from research communities. I think I am speaking on behalf of an overall committee, an overall agricultural industry and an overall knowledge-based environment when I say that the theme that the proposers have raised is particularly important for both industry, citizens and our common future. The proposal being promoted is that the Stortinget should ask the government as soon as possible, and by the first half of 2019 at the latest, to submit to the Stortinget a plan for climate adaptation of agriculture. The proposers further point to five specific points on which such a plan should be based. The Committee stresses that we share the intention of the proposers to improve the climate adaptation of agriculture and that several hearing bodies also shared that intention. The majority of the Committee, consisting of government parties, further indicates that agricultural climate adaptations have been an objective of Norwegian agricultural policy for several years and that the report on agriculture and climate challenges in agriculture and forestry from 2016 has been an important basis for the government’s work on the matter. The majority believe that the main lines of agricultural climate adaptation are being implemented through budgetary work and the annual agricultural negotiations, which are, incidentally, about to begin soon. There, the parties themselves will be able to formulate accurate tools in their efforts to improve climate adaptation. The topic was also discussed in depth at Stortinget in 2017, in connection with Meldning. St. 11 for 2016–2017, Change and development — A future-oriented agricultural production. The majority further indicate that the government is actively working with climate adaptations of agriculture. Several of the issues described in the proposal are being addressed, as Mr Hoksrud, the former Minister for Agriculture, the current representative, explained in his reply to the Committee. The majority therefore do not consider it necessary to adopt the proposals of the Workers' Party today, assuming that the government, both in the ongoing work and not least in the forthcoming agricultural settlement, is continuing to reduce the climate impact of agriculture. The left believes that agriculture should be one of the engines in the development of new, renewable Norway. Primary industries have a common responsibility for and a common interest of sustainable management of our nature. Active agriculture across the country is one of the most important means of ensuring safe food production, biodiversity and the long-term and sustainable management of our land. Norwegian agriculture is characterised by high food security and is world leader in animal and plant health. Like other industries, agriculture needs to adapt to new technologies and respond to new societal challenges through continuous changes. Reduced greenhouse gas emissions from agriculture are a necessary part of an overall agricultural policy. That is why there is reason to commend both the proposers for giving us the opportunity to re-examine the issue here in the Chamber, the industry's own efforts to reduce its emissions and the follow-up by the government to the objectives we have adopted here in the Grand Duchy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e857	This winter there has been a flood in the United States. In the Midwest, the last days cereal stocks have moved out with the flood. It illustrates one of several events in recent years — how international food supply can also be affected by more extreme weather. For the United States is one of the relatively few countries in the world, along with, among others. Brazil and Ukraine, which have the production of cereals and sales to the rest of the world to a large extent. Just in Ukraine, there was a drought a few years ago, in the Black Sea region. It was also one of the root causes of the unrest and riots that came then in the Middle East. So we see the context: if food safety goes away, it can affect the stability of the whole world. In Norway, we have known for ourselves the consequences of the worst drought since World War II. And not only was it dry in 2018, it became a harvest with large rainfalls and floods several places. In fact, in the Otta Valley in Gudbrandsdalen, a spring flood occurred in the autumn. This illustrates that we need to take action to strengthen food production and strengthen the security of our citizens in Norway in the next few years. Today, we need to be honest about how it works: the grain production and the grain area are going down in all the counties of the country. In several counties, grain production is actually on the way down at the same time as grass production. It happens in Hordaland, in Sogn and Fjordane, in More and Romesdal and in Trøndelag, and we can continue northwards with Nordland, Troms and Finnmark. That is why it is so vital that a common growth today would have adopted an overall plan for how to raise the value of Norwegian resources, boost self-sufficiency and strengthen security for all of us in Norway. Unfortunately, there is political disagreement as to whether we should have a proper plan for increased self-sufficiency and preparedness. Former Minister of Agriculture of the Progress Party, Jon Georg Dale, said in a debate on the stockpiling of cereals that it was a bad idea because we did not know what to insure ourselves against. An insurance always aims to make sure that you can deal with what is just unforeseen events, whether there is a more uncertain access to cereals from the United States or Ukraine, or there is a drought that nobody had seen coming in Norway. This is what insurance should make sure to help us with. I've heard, which is wise to say, that you should insure what you can't afford to lose. What we can't afford to lose is the security and access to safe food. Therefore, a stepping-up plan on how to adapt our food production to more unpredictable weather is important to our entire country. As far as defence is concerned, we are aware of this context, that it is a common insurance policy, and that we are therefore investing in it for the years to come. It's hard to provide security for people if we just have balls and don't have food. So we need to do much more in the next few years to get self-sufficiency up and boost food production across Norway. We can go back and look at our own story at an earlier time when we didn't know how vulnerable we could be. In 1914 Prime Minister Gunnar Knudsen said: ‘The political heaven, from a world political point of view, is schistry to a degree that has not been the case for many years.’ A few months later World War I broke out in the light of the shootings in Sarajevo and the tense situation. This led to later on, among other things: had to grow potatoes in the Castle Park because of the shortage of food in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e881	Should the representative make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e886	That's right, the President has a good point! The representative proudly took up the proposals made by the proposers.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e891	Then the President gladly accepts the proposals, and considers them to be taken up!
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e896	I would like to start by thanking the proposers for making this important proposal. The committee had a good hearing on the matter. I thought the time was also very right. For my part, I spent part of the summer traveling around different parts of the country and looking at the consequences of the drought. It was sad, it was bad, and there were many despairing farmers a meeting. The grainmaker might look nice when a man ran past the highway and looked at him. He was yellow in July. There is no need to think about it if you don't know about it, but you don't want it to be it. And he was often 10 to 15 cm tall. Many had crops down to zero. So there was a process in which we saw the value of having good replacement arrangements, and there was also a political pressure from the Storting, which made the government, in cooperation with the agricultural organizations, a crisis package. We cannot live on either replacement arrangements or crisis packages in this country. We simply need to take climate change more seriously. We need to reduce emissions through measures that actually work, both here at home and as props for outcasts. But we also have to adapt to a changed climate, and we have to do that in a slightly different way. First of all, I think it's important for measures to reduce our vulnerability. Drainage is one measure. When I was in the South, and looked on the dry land, they could tell that those who worshiped the former antagonism were less of a drought than others. Secondly, we need to think about the preparedness, preparedness for cereals and cereal seed – a very important measure that we have taken in Norway, which we have built down in Norway, but which is now time to re-establish. The third element is that we have to think about the economy of the farmer, and there is the proposal for climate funds very, very important. I want to say a little bit about the climate fund, because it has a special story. It was part of the government platform already in 2013. The collapse of a co-conspirator joined the idea in the context of the processing of the agricultural message in spring 2017. But this government is a bit strange, because positive measures for agriculture coming into the government platform, we have many examples of not having been implemented. Negative measures, on the other hand, are implemented at express speed. That's what I thought was very, very unfortunate. There is also a commitment to producing more fruit and green in Norway. A climate fund will be particularly important for fruit and vegetables, which will fluctuate from year to year. That the farmer is able to smooth out the income through a climate fund will be important and will be able to relieve the compensation schemes. Another thing that we have focused a lot on is the storage of cereals – a lot of things. There's one fundamental problem with all the distributions, and it's that they assume that the same thing happens, then trade has to go its way – it's a so-called state plan statement. So, no matter what happens, trade is going to go its way. In the Center Party, we think that preparedness is about the possibility that the undisputed can happen, and in our view, it is also necessary to take a height to make the trade in food stop for shorter or longer periods. It's also so that a very small part of the food produced in the world crosses a border. So there's not a huge world market to trade in. This is not the last time we entered on these themes. The centre party wants to have a broad approach to this, where we look at breeding, plant processing and preparedness, and where we are not least planning that what is today perceived as unmistakable can happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e921	When we started today, the Central Party submitted a proposal that the self-supply should be up to 50 p.m. by 2026. Now she's about 30 pst. Estimatedly, because of the drought that we have behind us, but in recent years she has a doctor of about 40 p.p. That one in seven years will rise from that situation to 50 pst., is unlikely to be bold — unlikelyly bold — but it is presumably absolutely necessary, absolutely imperative. The situation that we see globally is that more and more soil is being wasted. Large parts of the world cannot bow. Sorry, there is no way to farm where a drifting farm already exists. The World's cereal organization says that we will now see a global decline in cereal production, and that will affect everyone who imports, as Norway does. We import quite a lot, both cereals and different types of inputs to supply our own food production and agriculture. Norway must go such a way as to adapt to the use of the earth. We're using more land than what we're doing today. We're taking back soil from what's gone out of use. We're adapting the animals to the new reality, we're adapting the Norwegian land resources, not the input factors that we're importing, but we're adapting the Norwegian cow's area. Not least, we're adapting the diet of Norwegian resources, so we're continuing our meating in Norway and increasing it. There will be a direct conflict with both import protection and Norwegian meat production. We won't be able to supply it alone. We're in a situation where we have to put around quite dramatically, but the conversion can't happen dramatically, because we have operating structures here that have adapted to the current regime. One has invested a lot. Someone has taken up a huge amount of debt in the situation we've been in, and then we're going to change. We have to change as fast as we can, and then at least we have to have a 20-year perspective. In this 20-year perspective, we're also going to halve or remove all emissions from Norway. So it's a pretty dramatic situation one's in, here and now – conversion fast, but without a breakdown. To say a little about what my assessment of the government's line is: here is the agricultural message, the agricultural settlement and the state budget. In the agricultural report – that is quite right – there was something about the climate, but there was nothing about the drought. No one saw it coming. There was no one who thought a sudden danger of emptying Norwegian water storage facilities, and that the drought would knock out much of Norwegian grain production – nobody saw it coming, and all of a sudden it was a reality. Not once in the climate agreement some years ago, there was one word about drought. Warmer, wilder, wetter was overcast then. No one predicted that we could actually end up in a situation in Norway with too little water. It was completely unmistakable. Then there was focus on drainage and digging and such things, which are counterproductive for drying, to say so. So we have to change the rhythm we now have, where at quite many years intervals we get a bigger big message about agriculture, where it happens in connection with the data and the state budget. We should take over the new situation, change the pace and change of Norwegian agriculture. That should happen now. If not, this could have fatal consequences for Norwegian food production and for the structure of Norwegian agriculture. So we need an active government that's a lot more on these questions. We need an active staging, and we need an active nourishment if we're to be able to solve the situation we're in.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e936	The previous two years have shown that extreme climate events appear to be becoming more common, with the consequences for Norwegian agriculture. The season of growth in 2017 was marked by extreme rainfall in South Norway. In 2018, the situation was the very opposite, where large parts of the country were hit by the worst drought in over 100 years. In view of such extreme impacts, it is right and important that the issue be raised about how politicians and agriculture can jointly make Norwegian food production more robust in the face of a changing climate. Nevertheless, it is not necessarily possible for problems to be solved by the government drawing up forecasting messages or overall strategies adopted by the Storting. The issue of increased climate change in Norwegian agriculture has been highlighted and debated over a good few years, not least when the Stortinget dealt with Report. Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of 19 June 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 347, The big message was promoted right at the end of the last period of the Stoltenberg II government, and in this way one might expect that the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre used the opportunity to send powerful signals on how Norwegian agriculture would be made more climate-resilient – governance signals to go to elections in 2013. But it didn't. The Storting Communication described the challenge picture for agriculture quite accurately, but did not contain any concrete proposals for action. However, there is no doubt that extreme climate events have become a source of both government parties and opposition parties in recent years, although the roles have changed since 2013. I think we can all agree that the cross-political consensus on strengthening the crop damage regime and the supplementary agreement in connection with last year's catastrophic crop failure shows that the Stortinge is willing to take the necessary steps to ensure Norwegian farmers against economic disaster when the disaster strikes. Then it is important to remember that the climate adaptation of agriculture is more than climate change. Agriculture, like other parts of industry, needs to invest in shifts in order to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Negotiations are currently under way between the country and the agricultural organisations on how the emission targets that Norway has committed itself to in the non-quota sector can be achieved for agriculture. If our joint efforts nationally and globally to achieve the emission targets are successful, the future is also much brighter for Norwegian farmers. In an industry fully based on land use and biological processes, any measure that reduces greenhouse gas emissions and contributes to less extreme climate events is self-help. In the coming period, the government will continue to focus on the climate adaptation of agriculture through budgetary work, the annual agricultural negotiations and through governance signals to underlying agencies and research institutions. The main objective of agricultural policy has been and will still be to increase food production on Norwegian resources by ensuring agriculture throughout the country. It requires a clear priority in the use of agricultural land for different productions through a consistent channelling policy. In the year’s agricultural settlement, it was, among other things, priority grants for areas with operational difficulties for those areas of the country where the development of land use is the worst. Through the so-called pyramid grant, a strengthening of the economy of small and medium-sized dairy farms was also introduced in line with the overall objectives of agriculture. Subsidies for the drainage of agricultural land have also been continued in the current agricultural agreement, and in recent years premiums for cattle on pasture have increased sharply. All these are mechanisms and measures that contribute to the achievement of what is the intention of the proposers. Although the purpose of the Workers’ Party’s proposal is the very best, it is nevertheless characterised by an approach that can be said to challenge the Norwegian agricultural model. The proposals that are being promoted go a long way in allowing the Stortinge to take over the role of governance in areas currently negotiated by agricultural organisations with the State in the annual agricultural operations. Quota and structural development, enhanced Norwegian feed development measures and increased investments in upgrading watercourses and irrigation facilities are all natural elements for negotiations between the State and the organisations on frameworks and priorities in the agricultural negotiations. Therefore, like the other government parties, the Christian People's Party believes that the intention of the proposers to improve the climate adaptation of agriculture is good, but that issues of action to achieve it are best resolved in the context of the annual agricultural operations, where the parties themselves have the opportunity to formulate accurate tools in their efforts to improve climate adaptation. We in the Christian People's Party stand as guarantors that the agricultural organisations will meet a political leadership in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food that is alive and active in these challenges and the good solutions to ensure that agriculture is able to meet the challenges of climate change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e955	Initially, I would like to say that this is an important matter for Norwegian agriculture and an important matter for Norwegian policy. There is no doubt that after seeing climate change on a full scale in 2017 and 2018 and the impact they had on agriculture, we have a way to adapt agriculture to the new climate change. I fully agree with the rapporteurs. We need to rust Norwegian agriculture at times of more rainfall, more floods and more drought, paradoxically enough, and we need to adapt agriculture to these climate change. I'm not in doubt about that. I fully agree that it is important and necessary that Norwegian agriculture is well equipped for precisely these changes. At the same time, I believe that we need to be involved and contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions from the sector, not to reinforce the challenge we are seeing here. I believe that there are key issues that have been systematically worked with over the year. As the Council of State, I have met many knowledge-based units that have come up with many well-founded measures that agriculture has taken, both plant processing and animal processing, precisely because it wants to meet the new climate challenges. Climate change adaptation of agriculture needs to be taken seriously, and the government is following this up, I believe, in a number of contexts. Through budgetary work, the annual agricultural negotiations and the governance signals given to underlying agencies and research institutions, the focus has been on precisely reducing agricultural emissions and adapting Norwegian agriculture to a changing climate in recent years. The development of both adapted technology and research-based and practical agronomic knowledge is a prerequisite for success under increasingly demanding production conditions. The main objective of agricultural policy has been to increase food production on Norwegian resources over several years. The use of agricultural land between grasslands and areas suitable for the production of cereals and vegetables, together with the objective of having an agricultural holding throughout the country, requires a clear priority. In the Granavolden platform, the government says that we want to strengthen this division of labour in Norwegian agriculture, precisely because one wants to grow cereals where one can grow grain, and to have grass production where one should have grass production. I believe that I also agree to do something about the degree of self-sufficiency. At the same time, I want to raise my eyes a little. With regard to the challenge of climate-adapted agriculture, Norway is on an incredibly high level of knowledge through our research institutions. We can also contribute to this knowledge beyond our borders in order to increase food production also elsewhere, not just in our own country, and in order to maintain different species and adapt species to a new climate. I'll end by saying, we've seen a terrible war in Syria. One of the first things they took was the seed store, which was adapted to be able to build the country afterwards. It is important to think ahead — how we think about processing, anchoring and storage — is an important part of the climate challenges facing agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e973	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e978	The grain area is returning throughout the country. What is the Minister of Agriculture's target for the quantity of cereals in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e983	I'm aware that the grain area has fallen, because one has given the opening for another production where there is an area that has been suitable for grain production. That is why I want to strengthen and be clear that we need to use the areas suitable for cereal production, for cereal production, and where one is to have the production of grass, one must manage the instruments. I believe that this is a good basis for agricultural negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e988	The referenced words are correct, but we also have to have actions that are in line with them. Innovation Norway has an important role to play in ensuring that we gain self-sufficiency through the investment funds provided. In South Odal in Hedmark, there are good production conditions, among others. to produce cereals. There, one of the industry's active people who want to invest in upgrading the cereal production plant was told that it was rejected, because Hedmark is a grass farm. What does the Council of State think of such feedback?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e993	Now the Council of State does not know exactly the matter to which the representative refers, but regardless of what the county is called, I believe that where it is suitable for grain production, a producer should produce grain, precisely on the basis of our desire and political agreement on an increased degree of self-sufficiency. It is then an important instrument, whether called Hedmark or Eastfold.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e998	There are still challenges to concrete implementation. Another example I have previously asked the Minister of Agriculture about is specifically from Gudbrandsdalen. There, Jørn Skoe wanted to renew the production of milk. He had a basic good plan for how it was to be implemented, which is designed to exploit the natural resources that lie at its disposal. Unfortunately, the message he received from Innovation Norway was that he was not offensive enough. In other words, he was to be forced to increase production even more in volume and beyond what makes sense in view of the natural resources lying there. But when I challenged the agriculture ministers, the answer was not to go in and rule politically how the instruments were to be given, but that is contrary to what we are now discussing. So I would like to ask: will the Minister of Agriculture then improve Innovation Norway's resources in line with our common objective?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1003	Yes, I am willing to look at the steering signals of the underlying agencies, because it should not be an objective to go beyond what is sustainable on each farm in order to be able to obtain innovation funds – if that was what the representative really gave the question. I think we're going to use the resources that are, and we're going to use them, but we're not going to consume them, because then we challenge the balance of the ecological system, for which I don't think it's the basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1008	That's right. And now there's a huge imbalance, precisely because there's a policy in place where there's a mismatch between investments that have been made with large debt withdrawals, and many that are actually in debt beyond what's on the farm, and we're going no further back than the year that went on, when a farmer in the Jären went bankrupt. That's why it's a shame to say that the proposals underlying today are being voted down, because here we could jointly, collectively, support a strengthening of Norwegian agriculture and ensure that quota development is adapted to the country we are, and the nature we have. That is why I will end with a question now open to the Minister of Agriculture: how will we now notice that we have an Minister of Agriculture from the Christian People's Party, unlike the Progress Party, in these important questions?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1015	Now, as a state councillor, I'm going to be a state councillor, and I'm not going to compare myself to other state councils. What I'm concerned about is actually having a dialogue with Norwegian agriculture, even on how the priorities are. Because I believe in all business – even when I have been the head of the hospital – that it is important to have a dialogue with those who wear the shoes. Then governance and negotiations become important, then cooperation becomes important, and then we must also be able to make changes to the instrument if it does not. I think that is best done in dialogue and not from Stortinget alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1020	The next replicator is Geir Pollestad. The Council of State must stand still!
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1025	I'm recording that the government council thought I didn't have any questions. That's what I thought was nice. I also believe that the Council of State must recognise that both agriculture and the opposition have significantly greater expectations for a Council of State from the Christian People's Party than we have for a Council of State from the Progress Party. But my specific question is: has the Minister of Agriculture completely abandoned the idea and the work of establishing a climate fund for agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1033	I'm not putting away the thought of any good work, I, but that's what I'm going to do in those negotiations where it's natural. But I don't put away any good measures until I've been in a dialogue and see what I think can be effective. I have heard from a number of industries that they have a desire to do so, and I have listened to it. And then I'm going to take this with me in the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1040	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1047	I'm elected to the Stortinget from the county of Hordaland. Hordaland is too much known, but they actually also have the most use. I didn't know that until we had a trip with Sponheim. They also have the largest share of small-scale use. The region is also known for its geographical exposure to rainfall, and it is expected that we will have even more extreme weather. The nutrition committee was recently in Bergen and Austevoll. Agriculture was not the theme, but we saw clearly when we were in Austevoll, how they have used the wild sea – cultivated it out – to take care of the landscape, and not least to develop a speciality, which our Bocuse d’Or chef in Bekkjarvik has on his menu. We were also in Bergen when we took the ferry back, and then we passed the Fana farmer, whose product was recently cut to the world's best cheese. He does not want to expand, but only have twelve cows and keep exclusivity. So the region is diverse. When I was a local representative and head of the Committee on Environmental and Urban Development, I was also told that there is 120 uses in Bergen. That's why it was happy about the farmer's breakfast this morning. We're used to the fact that Trondelag, Rogaland and Inland are much larger in agriculture, but they chose Bodil Fjelltveit, a sheep farmer from Bergen, who was allowed to lead us through the meeting this morning. We also have Hardanger, and in Hardanger, most of the area is concentrated on fruit and berry cultivation and especially fruit cultivation. All of them we meet are concerned that they are able to continue in their professions. It has enormous professional pride – working so closely on earth and producing food. But they are also very aware that they need more knowledge to adapt to the climate change that is, not least to generate new varieties. Then they need general knowledge. I am aware that we have strong peasant organizations. Much is agreed through them. But it is also clear in the meeting with the League of Bonds that it is crucial for them to have local, regional and national involvement in the overall challenges. I'm absolutely sure we can do it in a way that makes us respect the role clarification that they have. They also clarified that they want measures that they themselves have the ability to manage, and do not eliminate measures that they cannot influence. Because they're grounded, our farmers. At least there is a call on the ground — and not least to think of regional adaptation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1064	Some comments entirely on the tame of the debate. I fully agree with Mr Grung that differentiated agriculture is absolutely necessary. It has also been the guide for the Left and not least for the Christian People's Party since 2013, and we have concluded all the agreements with the then government, but also with the one that is today. But there are some moments that it's natural to link some comments to. Now the representative Pollestad has gone, but it becomes a little paradoxical when we had a case in the room today early, where the same representative explains how concerned he is with environmental and climate adaptations. He rams up quite a lot of grip. But one could also put in a few words about what we did in 2017, when we increased the county grant significantly in relation to what it was like under previous governments, and not least what we got at that time, which just makes us take this seriously, and not least what is also a little conditional around the proposal today. But everything is basically about – without one going too far – good agronomy in life and learning what we are doing here. So there's someone inside of this with channelling policy. That's what I've been talking about a lot of times. It is important that we have a major re-channelization, as we can now see, especially in Hedmark and Buskerud and partly in Uppland. But then I'll be in a bit of a hurry. When the representative Sandtrøen again – I thought I answered it earlier in the debate – brings in innovation Norway so clearly, we have to take it with us that we are on the roof of most industries. I have a great deal of respect for the agricultural institute, but the Sandtrøen representative here is a detailed management that I don't think the trade unions really appreciate. I would think that the best thing to do is that you can have respect for the fact that it is the trade unions that promote their claims towards the state, and that one in that way just gets the dynamics that several people are looking for here. The representatives of Sandtrøen put up here are a detailed management of the industry, and I would strongly warn against that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1075	I just wanted to give honey to Ruth Grung, who took this up with small and differentiated use. It will also be important in the adaptation we need to make it possible for them in Hardanger to have a processing of their fruit and berry trees that are adapted to the climate and that one looks at the challenges. Those who know best are the ones who wear the shoes. I also think it is important to have other types of production in small and medium-sized applications adapted locally to their climate and nature. I think that's wise for everyone. It will increase food production, but it's also administrative responsibility for the resources we have. Then I would like to thank you for the three debates we have had. I think as a new state council it's been a good experience.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1084	The grain production is at the bottom, and that is what is essential if we are to have security for people in Norway. In that case, the Storting must be involved in taking action and ensuring that the objectives that we have put together in the agricultural communication, with greater security for people in Norway and increased self-sufficiency, are actually met in practice. When it comes to cooking, there are often good cookbooks about how you can actually do the job. We in Stortingen have jointly adopted an agricultural report. The proposal from the Workers' Party is a concrete introduction to how we can now move on to make sure that we adapt to the challenging image we see with increasingly unpredictable weather, and get up production and value creation and facilitate agronomy in the whole country – whether it is fruit cultivation in Hardanger or grain production in the East. To Skelstad: It is important to find out that we have had a consultation on the whole package of proposals, and there was broad support, including from the trade unions, for this to be a perfectly correct way of thinking and necessary to strengthen the safety, preparedness and value creation of food production in the next few years. This has just been done in collaboration with all those who are going to do the job. There's one point that's important today. In the reply between the Labour Party representative, whom I will be here today, and Mr Bollestad as Minister of Agriculture, it became clear that unfortunately we will continue to see that the main lines of Sylvi Listhaug's policy are the firm ones. We miss that we could have gone into this proposal together and said that we're going to get up production of food in the next few years, we're going to achieve the goal that the Storting has set, so it's not just a paper decision, but actually implemented in real action. It would have been nice. I know – although the Minister of Agriculture shakes his head – that the Christian People's Party really shares the idea of our proposal, but that one is not allowed to vote in favour. That means that we have opportunities to create a better future if the Storting, by a future majority, can join people in the industry and create better prospects. It will be beneficial both for the next generations and for the safety of all of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1103	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1119	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that up to seven lines of reply are given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1128	The proposers, representatives of the Socialist Left Party, propose that a sample be set up to assess alternatives to the EEA Agreement. In particular, they wish to highlight how well the EEA contributes to solving social dumping problems in the workplace. The proposers would also have highlighted alternatives which, in the opinion of the proposers, would better safeguard democratic interests, and explore how the possible effects of such alternatives would impact on Norwegian business. Proposals foresee that this investigation will be completed by the end of 2020. I believe that the rapporteurs and other minorities who have formed during the committee procedure will explain their views in more detail. In the following I present the views expressed by the majority of the Committee, and it is also this majority that promotes the position of the matter. The Committee has noted that not all options are proposed for consideration, only alternatives that weaken cooperation with Europe and that do not oblige Norway to implement EEA legislation as strongly as they do today. The majority of the Committee notes that the proposal is supported by party groups that have already concluded that they wish to terminate the EEA Agreement. The majority believe that this would in this case give Norway third-country status to EU countries and close participation in the internal market. The EEA Agreement is the main agreement of Norway. A breach of the EEA would require both preparations and investigations, but what results Norway would achieve would remain uncertain in any case, since the procedure for renegotiation of international agreements is first to be terminated, so that the parties can renegotiate on the basis of their own negotiating power and interests. What Norway would have to give up in a renegotiated agreement or in the event of a bilateral trade agreement would be part of the uncertainty open to it. The EEA Agreement has been the basis for Norway’s association with the EU for 25 years. The agreement gives Norwegian industry access to the EU internal market with opportunities to trade goods and services on equal and predictable terms with its competitors. The EEA Agreement is essential for the economy of Norway, for jobs and thus for private and public welfare. It is of similar importance for Norway’s economic relations as our NATO membership is for Norway’s security. The EEA Agreement is qualitatively different from a traditional bilateral trade agreement by providing Nordics with the same opportunities as EU citizens in terms of trade in goods as well as the opportunity to make investments, conduct financial and insurance activities, sell and purchase services, and to take work, study, receive health services, or take refuge in other EU/EEA countries. In the view of the majority, there are no known forms of association with the EU, other than membership, which could offer the same opportunities. The Committee notes that international, rules-based cooperation is currently encountering opposition from countries that believe they are large enough to take advantage of the principle of being self-sufficient and asserting their right through the principle of the strongest law internationally. For other countries, such as Norway, this is alarming. The EEA Agreement provides a solid framework for Norway’s cooperation with the EU. It ensures Norwegian business access to a domestic market of 31 countries and 510 million people. The Agreement ensures a level playing field and predictability and has contributed to the sustained and balanced strengthening of trade and economic relations between the Contracting Parties. At the same time, the EEA Agreement provides for broad cooperation with the EU in a number of other areas, including environmental protection, research, education, health and consumer issues, civil protection and culture. The EEA Agreement contributes to the security of Norwegian welfare and employment. The absence of an agreement will have negative consequences for the Norwegian economy and for the Nordics most. It is the majority who strongly want to suspend the EEA Agreement and through targeted and systematic work will ensure that the Agreement continues to function properly. It serves both Norway and the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1149	Not a day after we got an EEA Agreement, we have had a solution in the vicinity of it over 8 pst. we had before EEA. The agreement gives us access to all types of cooperation within the EU – such as education, free movement, insurance, research, police and many more areas. The EU is protecting us from criminal tariffs, we have civilised ways of resolving disputes and letting go of the nightmare we had under the trade agreement, with constant threats of anti-dumping measures against industry. Nordic cooperation with three EU countries is also very important, the CO 2 compensation scheme is similar and not least the climate quota system for industry both at sea and at land. The veterinary agreement secures us against long cows in order to recognize the quality of food that crosses the border, and therefore the seafood industry is the strongest defender of the agreement. These are just some of the benefits that the agreement gives us. Europe today consists of two groups of countries. The one group is part of the internal market. The other group is outside. In the internal market, we are together with two other EEA countries, together with Switzerland and 28 EU countries. Here, people can move freely, capital can be moved and services provided, and goods can be sold freely across borders. Then it is the countries outside the internal market in Europe. It is Russia, Ukraine, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Serbia, Georgia, Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Moldova, Albania, Turkey, Northern Macedonia, Montenegro, Kosovo, Azerbaijan, Andorra, Monaco and San Marino. There are border controls here, and there is no free movement across borders either one way or another. There are corresponding relations that the EU has with these countries; No to the EU movement will offer us. They'll never give us much better deals than they give to their own neighboring countries in the south. For me, this becomes like moving down from elite division to third division. I don't want to. I feel much greater together with Sweden, Iceland, Finland, Denmark, Germany and England, to name a few, than with the names I've listed instead. The EEA debate should also address this issue: Where do we belong in Europe? Some think we should sort out alternatives. The center part and SV do. Today in the class struggle, I read that the representative Amundsen said that the Progress Party would probably also have supported such a proposal – ‘if we had not been in government’. Let's be clear: we don't need to get any options out of the way. The agreement is directly supported – not only in the Labour Party, but also in the Norwegian people. Only 20 pst. the people answer that they are against the agreement, and the largest group are party voters. Should we figure out alternatives to anything like 20 pst. of the Norwegian people are dissatisfied with, would it be very much work for Norwegian consultants. Let me give you four reasons why we shouldn't do that: If the Stortinge were to start out of alternatives, it would create considerable insecurity both in the EU and in Norwegian food operators. I'm not sure I can do that. If we denounce the agreement, we know that we can continue to trade with the EU under WTO conditions. When it's all about everything else, we're dependent on an agreement with the counterparty. If the old trade agreement will enter into force at the end of its EEA Agreement, a question the EU will decide – because they can choose to cancel the trade agreement with the same deadline as we cancel the EEA Agreement, if they think it strengthens their negotiating position. Then the negotiations on future negotiations will start without the EEA Agreement, without a trade agreement at the bottom, and as there is no provision in the EEA Agreement to negotiate an exit agreement first – as the British have – we will be right on what the British call hard brexit today. What the alternative solutions in theory can be, we know, but what we can achieve from concrete agreements is determined by the negotiations. But the results of the negotiations must be seen, they cannot be distributed – and I believe the British know everything about them now. Our negotiating power is weak. When we negotiated the EEA Agreement, we were seven EFTA countries negotiating with 12 EU countries. Today, we are one of the smallest countries in Europe, with 5.5 million inhabitants, negotiating alone against 28 EU countries with 510 million inhabitants. This is gonna be a bad deal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1180	Europe is of great importance to Norway. The EEA Agreement and the NATO alliance bind us to the rest of the continent. NATO is essential for Norway's defence. Norway’s market access to the continent through the EEA is of vital importance for Norwegian industry and the Norwegian economy. As it stands today, we have no clear alternatives to the EEA Agreement, which ensures full access to the EU's internal market for half a billion people. But when, hopefully, we see the impact of brexit, it may make sense to evaluate the United Kingdom’s form of EU connectivity against our own EEA agreement. It therefore appears rationally to await the situation. At this stage, however, we cannot support SV's proposals, mainly because the Progress Party is bound by the Granavolden platform in Stortinget. In any case, we must work to get as good a relationship as possible with the United Kingdom and seek to preserve our good relationship with the EU, and here the government is doing a good job. However, it is important not to salute the EEA Agreement uncritically or to glaucify the EU. We cannot underestimate either the internal challenges in Europe or those aspects of the EEA Agreement that are not working properly. Therefore, the Granavolden platform also states that the government should work for improvements within the EEA Agreement framework. In the Progress Party, we have highlighted in particular the availability of welfare benefits, where we have a clear majority of growth rates that are with us that benefits such as child benefit and cash support should be adjusted for purchasing power. Several EU countries share our views, including Denmark and Austria. In Austria, the government has taken the step of introducing purchasing power adjustments on its own. The EU Commission has initiated infringement proceedings against the country for the introduction of discriminatory practices. In response, Austria argues that its practice is in line with EU legislation in this area. This will lead to a longer dispute and may be brought to justice by the European Court of Justice. It is important that the government monitor developments in this matter and promote Norwegian interests in the best possible way. Norway should play a more offensive role towards the EU in promoting Norwegian interests, both through formal and informal channels. This may also include the use of the right of reservation if there are matters of critical importance. It's not our job to be the nicest boy in the class. Norwegian interests must first. Internally within the EU, there is no idyll either. The main symptom of dissatisfaction with the development of the Union is, of course, Brexit. Support for brexit is still high among the British, despite the uncertainties and uncertainties surrounding the process. The background to the dissatisfaction with the EU is the cost of membership, the EU was considered to be indifferent to public opinion, and the Union contributed to uncontrolled immigration. The people want to take power back from Brussels. It shouldn't be a shock. It should also be seen as a natural response to a democratic deficit, where the elite believe they know better than the people. It is, after all, all ordinary people who know the negative consequences of an EU taking on more and more power. Skepticism towards the EU is also growing in other countries. Parties that are EU opponents and EU critics have made good choices in a number of European countries, and the elections in the European Parliament later this spring may lead to a record number of EU sceptics taking place in this central EU body. This concern should be addressed by the EU. The drug is hardly what is prescribed by the President of France Macron, namely increased power for the EU through several pan-European institutions. The massive demonstrations against Macron's leadership and the unusually low popularity measurements show that he doesn't even understand his own people. The EU must restore power to the people and national democratic institutions, not bring together more power in Brussels.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1201	I want to commend SV for making an important suggestion. As previously described, there is a need to look at our relationship with the EU and alternatives to it. The centre party will therefore support the proposal. The EEA Agreement has been increasingly involved in Norwegian society, not least in the labour market. In recent times, criticism of the EEA agreement from the environment has increased in trade unions, and one is particularly critical that the EEA Agreement threatens a well-organised working life and can facilitate social dumping. The Central Party will replace the EEA Agreement with trade and cooperation agreements with the EU, and we want the Norwegian people to influence the decision whether Norway should be a member of the EEA. We have a future goal of a referendum on EEA membership in Norway. Norway pays the EU to participate in the EEA, and I want to refer to Prop. 1 S for 2018–2019, cap. 117, Norway permits 2.77 billion. to the EU for membership of the EEA. At the same time, about 95 pst. imports into the EU from countries not related to the EEA, countries not paying large amounts, etc. a trade agreement with the EU. The Central Party believes that Norwegian contributions to economic and social cohesion in Europe should be decoupled from the EEA Agreement and should be designed on the basis of national priorities. It was claimed, at the time of the conclusion of the EEA Agreement, that Norway would be able to use the right of reservation in the EEA Agreement if there were proposals that did not light the Norwegian community and the Norwegian people. It has not happened. Yes, the majority in this room have effectively blocked all attempts to say no to untimely proposals that have made major interventions in Norwegian society. Norway shall make active use of the right of reservation in the EEA Agreement so that we can reserve ourselves against directives and regulations that threaten basic Norwegian interests, or to ensure that people are safe when it comes to work, health, the environment and security. If Norway withdraws from the agreement, it will be the existing free trade agreement as a liability. Norway will still be able to trade with the EU, and parts not covered by the agreement will be covered by the WTO. At the same time, it is uncertain whether this would be sufficient to cover all interaction Norway has with the EU, since the EEA Agreement has been quite different from the applicants argued that the agreement was concluded. It's been a lot more intrusive, and that's exactly why it also needs to be done. The objective of distribution must be to look at how Norway can continue trade cooperation with the EU without an equally strong obligation to implement all of the EU’s legislation, as we do with today’s EEA Agreement. One has to look at the options for how well they contribute to solving the challenges of social dumping, which has been a major problem in parts of Norwegian working life. We need to look at how our democracy can be achieved in a far better way than what is happening under today's EEA agreement and, of course, assess the impact on society and business. From those for the EEA Agreement, it paints a very dark picture of what can happen if we find an alternative and choose to replace the EEA Agreement with other agreements. After brexit, of course, we haven't seen how difficult this can be. Well, Norway is not a member of the EU, we have what was called a more loose relationship in its time. Today's government is doing everything possible to put gas on customization. They have done so, and I myself have a meeting of the EEA Committee in the previous period and heard the delegation leader say that Norway is actually a member of the EU, it is just not formalised. We have an alternative report that outlines the basis for alternatives to the EEA. Now we need a new distribution, which can contribute to the wider perspective of the debate, and provide a new basis for assessing the EEA Agreement and our relationship with the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1222	Does the representative wish to address the proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1227	I would like to address the proposal on which the Centre Party is involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1232	The representative, Liv Signe Navarsette, then mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1237	The proposal under consideration by the Stortinget today comes out of the new and strengthened EEA debate that has reached new heights in Norway in the last year. It is a result of the despair and the sense that characterizes trust-chosen in many workplaces in many unions in the trade union movement, because one sees how social dumping undermines professional rights, undermines the work of creating social cohesion and the work against increasing wage differences in our working life. We see social dumping spreading in construction sites, in parts of industry, on the roads, in ports – even far into the welfare and public sector. We have a development in Norwegian working life that we can also read out of dramatic numbers. In the last decade, they have 10 pst. The lowest paid in Norwegian working life did not have real wage growth at all, while at the top they are pulling heavily away. It is impossible to claim that this development has nothing to do with the EEA, and that is why the EEA Agreement is now under so much debate in the Norwegian trade union movement. The LO has a clear decision that Norwegian collective bargaining agreements should be governed by EU rules, but the principle in the EEA is precisely the opposite: EU rules prevail over everything else. That is why we have had the situation with the over-testing of Norwegian rules on travel, diet and lodging. That is why we now also see that we can get into a situation where, even if we were to choose a future large-scale majority that wants our railway to be on the Community's hands, we cannot implement it because the EEA Agreement has forced us to privatize the railways through the Railway Directive. In this way, the conditions for pursuing a left-wing economic policy are undermined. The EEA Agreement is a system of subscriptions to legal policy. One may be in favour of or against such things as driving a railway under the direction of the community or increasing the power of the trade movement, but it should be a matter of course that it was up to the majority in this room and up to the strength of the Norwegian trade movement through collective bargaining to determine the development of e.g. the railway or out of the workplace. So I also think it is important to say that the EEA euphoria that characterises Norwegian debate right now, and that characterises the big parties in particular, is really something new. So the last time there was a major attempt to put the issue of Norwegian EU membership on the agenda again, early in the 2000s, it was the criticism of the EEA Agreement that was the main reason why the Right and Labour Party felt it was right to apply for EU membership. The EEA agreement was so bad that we had to enter the EU. Actually, the only thing everyone has agreed on in the Norwegian EU debate for 25 years now is that the EEA Agreement is not a very good option. Given the new situation we are now in, where everyone seems to agree that EU membership is not on the table, and where Europe is in strong change, it should not be particularly radical to propose a discussion and an examination of whether there can be better alternatives for Norway. For the SV, we want to find a form of association for our cooperation with the EU that gives increased power over their own working lives, ensuring the primacy of collective agreements and the ILO Conventions, which ensures Norwegian wage and working conditions for all workers in Norway, whether they are Norwegian or have migrated here, and which ensures that we do not receive compulsory privatisation of services and infrastructure. Then it is said – and it was repeated in this debate, from various speakers – that we know that the option is bad. No, that's exactly what we don't know, because the option has never been figured out. The parties to the EEA Agreement have never allowed a proper investigation of the possible alternatives. Therefore, what we decide on today is not, yes or no to the EEA, but yes or no to whether to acquire that knowledge or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1254	If the previous speakers are afraid that I will build up under the conditions of a left-wing Norwegian economic policy, I must disappoint him. I find it difficult to see that the proposers could choose a worse time to doubt our EEA agreement. Last year I attended a visit to the European Parliament in Brussels, where we met an older participant from Ireland who lived close to the Northern Ireland border. She told us that she had to cross the border with the United Kingdom five times to get to the hospital. These countries are so densely intertwined. She told about the peace that now prevails in this area – a peace her child has lived throughout her life. Even she remembers, and relives occasionally, the anxiety associated with the bloody conflict between Sinn Fein and the British army. She thankes the European Union for the peace processes in this former war zone, and she fears that a closed border will cause it to destroy the peace of the region to end in a new bloody conflict. For her, this brexit is about. The situation in the United Kingdom today is difficult to see the consequences. The situation in today’s Europe as a result of Brexit is difficult to see from the consequences. The truce that ended World War I came into force 100 years ago, a war that brought with it a mass slaughter of young Europeans who could otherwise have helped lift our continent into the new century. The European project is a peace project, the direct result of two world wars that hit Europe hard. The EU was formed to prevent a third world war. The recognition of those who signed the Treaty of Rome was that only cooperation, integration and cohesion could avert a new catastrophe. Over 60 years, the EU has linked the major acts in Europe together. A formerly divided Europe is united, and still new countries have developed stable and secure democracies. This is the historical picture that explains the basic positive attitude of the Left towards European cooperation. We want a stronger and more effective EU. We want Norway to contribute to finding common European solutions to the major common challenges, and we want Norway to contribute actively through the EEA Agreement. The EU has been and is a peace project. So doubting our accession to the European Community, and especially at this point in time, is not only regrettable. It's unmusical, historyless, and highly unruly for parties that focus on calling themselves peace parties. It is said that just as our NATO membership is a foundation for Norway's international security, our EEA relationship is a foundation for our economic security. In this way, the uncertainty and uncertainty are the heading of the present proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1268	We in the Christian People's Party have a very special relationship with the EEA Agreement. To understand this, a return to the early 1990s with the heated EU debate that was then. The situation was that the Labour Party, the Right and the Advance Party agreed to send an application for Norwegian EU membership, while the Centre Party and SV in particular were categorically opposed. Pending a clarification on EU membership, it also agreed to negotiate the EEA Agreement. There was one party that thought that this agreement would be good enough in itself, could stand and give Norway access to the internal market, while at the same time giving us the right to have critical industries such as agriculture and fisheries. It was the Christian People's Party. Then we all remember how the EU vote went. The EEA Agreement remained standing. We're a party that likes to see things from an eternity perspective, and we see that this agreement 25 years later is still very good for Norway. It gives us access to the internal market, and we still have the right to self-determination over our key primary industries. There has been a very interesting development in the Norwegian political landscape in recent months. The working party delves selectors like a sieve into lots on the left side separately and into the centre part. In January there was a TV 2 measurement that showed that the Red, SV and Center parties together were as large as the Workers' Party. A few weeks ago, a new measurement showed that if one in a theoretical situation had now received a red-green majority government, only six mandates would be distinguished between the Labour Party on the one hand and the Centre Party and the SV, both of which are actively working against the EEA Agreement, on the other hand. The representative Sande had an exemplary clear statement in which he made good progress on the Labour Party's approach to the issue and said that the EEA Agreement is firm. But I believe that the Workers' Party must now be able to give Norwegian voters and not least Norwegian business a clear and clear answer: how will the Workers' Party deal with a potential situation in a government with two parties that are jam-sized, and which, with an ice-cold perspective, is working to bring Norway into the hemisphere that the United Kingdom is today, thus making Norway a third country without an agreement with the EU? It is a question that the Labour Party should be able to answer clearly from this pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1279	Three weeks ago, Erna Solberg was in Brussels to celebrate 25 years with the EEA. Then there was a lot of pride in her being the first to attend such an EU summit from the Norwegian side. However, Red was not among those who rejoiced that a Norwegian Prime Minister was finally released into the VIP area at the EU party, because Solberg was celebrating in Brussels, also 25 years of undermining Norwegian independence and Norwegian employment. In fact, it is Norwegian people who pay the price for a lot of EEA membership. It costs us both democracy and autonomy when decision-making power is moved from Norway to politicians and bureaucrats in Brussels, which none of us have voted for. When social dumping is imported from Eastern Europe through the EEA, our working life is undermined, and when the EU railway package and the Acer depriv us of control over their own rail sector and electricity, Norwegian autonomy and Norwegian autonomy are also undermined. It is this – precisely this – that at the same time makes Erna Solberg a popular guest in Brussels and the EU. In the vote, the Labour Party and the majority on the civil side say that the EEA is as important to our economy as NATO is to our security. It's an involuntary comparison. Stoltenberg became the head of NATO after Norway entered a devastating Libyan war, and Solberg became popular in Brussels when she allowed every single EU directive to take precedence over Norwegian democratic processes. Here in Norway, the majority of people have little to do with the fact that the government and the majority of the population are so deep to the elites in both Washington and Brussels. Red stands for the opposite and places Norwegian peoples' interests above the interests of both the EU and NATO. We are in favour of an agreement with the European Union that takes account of the needs of the export industry for market access, while at the same time respecting Norway's sovereignty. We therefore welcome the proposal from SV on an examination of alternatives to the EEA Agreement. All parties in the Grand Duchy today recognise, at least in words, that social dumping made possible by the EEA is a major and serious social problem in Norway. At the same time, both the Labour Party and the Government defend the EEA Agreement. The fact that the position on the investigation proposal is full of legislation on the EEA from the Workers' Party and from the citizens is expected, but there are hardly any good arguments against considering the alternatives to the EEA. Why is that? This may be because the government is beginning to realise that the European Economic Area is about to crack deep, and that their best card is to pretend that there are no other conceivable alternatives at all, not least because we see in the trade movement an increasing resistance to the EEA due to the impact of the EEA Agreement on Norwegian working life. In the export-oriented industry in particular, resistance to the EEA is increasing. Here at Stortinget, all the parties that go towards the EEA Agreement are also in strong growth. We see that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has abandoned the earlier phrase on consensus on government foreign policy and relations with the EU. In the last presentation to the Grand Duchy, the Minister for Foreign Affairs spoke instead of how dangerous it is to use the right to reserve, the one democratic right Norway actually has in the EEA, even in the case of Norway’s autonomy, control over energy policy and not least to ensure decent working life. As long as the Brussels dictatorships affect the right of self-determination, democracy and professional rights, decisions in the Grand Duchy will not put an end to EEA opposition among the majority of people, and we will fight for it here too.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1296	The EEA Agreement is the most important agreement we have in Norway with our European partners. It has been in force for 25 years and is the basis for the policy of inter-governmental cooperation with the EU. It gives us access to the internal market, it gives Norwegian industry predictability and the ability to sell its goods and services on equal terms with, for example, the Norwegian industry. Germany and Sweden. It is essential to ensure economic growth, jobs and well-being. The EEA Agreement gives Nordics the same opportunities as EU citizens in terms of trade in goods, making investments, banking and insurance, selling and purchasing services and the right to take up work, study, receive health care and to live in other EEA countries. No other form of association, except full EU membership, could offer the same opportunities. Therefore, the EEA Agreement is the cornerstone of the government's European policy. The content of the proposal has been well explained here, so I will not repeat it, but just say that an investigation in line with the proposal could be interpreted as a very clear signal that the government will consider changes in our cooperation with the EU. Based on the importance of the EEA Agreement and increasing concerns in international cooperation, it is not appropriate for the government to initiate measures that may create uncertainty about our main agreement with the EU. We also believe that this is completely unnecessary – simply because the EEA Agreement serves Norwegian interests very well. That is why we see no reason to replace it with anything other than what might eventually become a debate on full EU membership. The government has clearly stated from the perspective of cooperation with the EU that we do not want less committed cooperation with the EU. And less committed cooperation would give us fewer rights and fewer opportunities. Brexit has shown that it is not possible to benefit from the benefits of the internal market and not to include the obligations. It is well possible that the United Kingdom’s future relationship with the EU will not be clarified for several years. We know what the options are. There are three alternative forms of association as the situation is today, for Norway: it is membership, it is EEA, or it is a traditional bilateral trade agreement. The first options involve full participation in the internal market with all rights and obligations. Option three, trade agreement, does not provide for participation in the internal market, and it will mean far more extensive customs procedures and border controls, certification requirements, veterinary checks – generally increasing documentation requirements. However, although a country copies EU legislation in a field and is a member of the same standardisation organisations as the EU, it does not mean that goods can cross the border to the internal market without hindrance. Testing and certification may need to be re-established. We have 170 car combinations that go with Norwegian seafood every day, which could be stopped at EU borders regardless of which of the other options we had chosen. Programme cooperation with the EU can also be harmful. Let me also give an example of trade agreements: today Switzerland has more trade agreements with the EU. There are more than 120 bilateral agreements. The Swiss have wanted many different forms of amendment and adjustment of these agreements. 24 years after they started it, they have come into port with half. I also recall that through the EEA Agreement, Norway and Iceland were exempted from EU steel protection measures. Switzerland, with its nearly 120 trade agreements, was not exempted. In the Brexit negotiations, there has been an inevitable demand on the part of the EU that the United Kingdom should leave the Union before negotiations on a new and future cooperation are launched. It was repeated at the EU meeting last night when the United Kingdom was given a new postponement. As Michael Tetzschner said, in this context for Norway too, if we were to choose alternatives, we would have to move out of the EEA before we can find the future relationship. I think it is important to note also that a large country such as Canada opened negotiations with the EU on trade ten years ago. The agreement took seven years to negotiate, and two and a half years after its completion, the ratification process continues. We have alternatives to the EEA, they exist, but in our opinion they are not good.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1321	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1326	A large point is made of the difficulties a meeting should the EEA Agreement be replaced by other agreements. That's like 95 pst. EU imports come from countries other than the EEA, and it would be very strange for the EU to impose such barriers to trade that those imports become very difficult. Does the Council have examples of trade agreements with other countries that have major problems? The EU has extensive trade with very many countries, and those who export to the EU – whether it is the United States, China or others – do so without major barriers to trade. So it's very nice if the Foreign Minister can give some concrete examples of all the hopeless trade agreements that exist.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1331	Nearly 80 pst. Of our exports to the EU, Norway is not the size of either China or the United States. This means that we are in a completely different situation from the countries in the example mentioned by the representative when negotiating free trade agreements. But even the example of Canada, as I mentioned, which is a relatively large country, has also taken a very long time to negotiate and is still not ratified. The whole core and essence of our EEA relationship is that we have equal access to the internal market, under the same conditions as EU countries. That's what gives seamless exports, that's what gives us – five million people – access to a home market of 500 million people. And that is what is the pillar of our relationship with the EU, which is very highly valued by people who run jobs around the districts, to mention something. Our assessment is, very clearly, that for Norway, these conditions would be worse if we were to find alternatives to the EEA Agreement that are not full EU membership.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1340	With respect to reporting, neither the Minister of Foreign Affairs nor anyone else knows what the outcome would be, and it is important to bear in mind. Norway is paying close to 3 billion. kr to get that access, so it's not free, compared to what other countries have. Others who export goods to the EU do not pay billions to the EU to gain that access to trade. It's totally unthinkable that Norway should sit on such a housekeeper's contract. Our working life is in the process of being ruined within important sectors because the EEA Agreement facilitates social dumping. The Minister of Foreign Affairs does not see these problems for Norwegian society, and what will she do in the future to remedy them? Is a sit-in with your hands in jail?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1347	Here it was a lot at once. Firstly, it is not the case that countries other than those having the EEA Agreement, or full EU membership, have access to the internal market. That means that for us it has been assessed to have significantly greater benefits than it has disadvantages. And then no one has said that it also has no disadvantages. We also need to be involved in sharing obligations when we get to take so much of the benefits of being part of the internal market. I think it is quite a dry claim from a Central Party representative that Norwegian working life is about to be destroyed, and of course I also ask the representative to substantiate that claim. No one's in jail with their hands. Under this government, Norway has a very active and effective European policy, in which we seek to influence and not least be part of the European Community, which we are both valuable, cultural, political and not least economic. The government has taken a stand on this strategy we delivered last year, where we want closer cooperation with the European Union. I know that there is something the representative Navarsete dislikes to hear, but that is what serves Norwegian interests best.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1354	I'm deeply disunited in the government's policy, and I'm also deeply disunited in the rhetoric that's led from parts of the yes-parties that are here, that we're actually members, even if it's wishful thinking. I do not say that the Foreign Minister claims it, but I myself have heard other representatives say it in meeting with the EU. I also did not say that Norwegian work life is being ruined. I said that parts of the Norwegian working life are about to be destroyed. You can look at the application, for example: for individual subjects in different sectors, e.g. construction, where many people see that both the pay levels and the conditions under which they work are being undermined. There is a reason why many trade unions now say that we no longer want the EEA Agreement. What would the State Council like to do with this?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1364	I also think it is very special to point to the search for some subjects and say that this is the EEA Agreement's fault, or that there should be a sign that parts of Norwegian working life are about to be destroyed. Prime Minister Solberg has taken an initiative vis-à-vis the EU to help overcome the crime of working life. It is a positive initiative that has been well received in the EU. We also see that work-life crime is an area where the government takes advantage of the space for action contained in the EEA Agreement. These include both authorisation arrangements in the clean-up industry, pay and working conditions requirements and restrictions on the number of stages of public procurement. But the EEA Agreement is also a very good example of the fact that we have obtained rights in Norway that we initially did not have. This applies, for example: the rights of employees in the case of business transfers, written contract of employment, rules on mass redundancies, information and consultation with employees and certain working environment standards and non-discrimination rules for hired workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1373	I also want to think about what are the government's alternatives. What is striking about the government parties and the pro-EEA parties in this debate is that a sovereign lets not go into the reasons why we are in this situation. In the last platform of government, social dumping is mentioned zero times. It just says something about how busy the government is of this problem. It is also typical that when the foreign minister is challenged about this, there is talk of working life crime. While the wage dumping, the undermining of employment and professional rights that we see in parts of the world of work, the government is not even talking about. What is the government's strategy for us not to repeatedly end up in the situation where important Norwegian regulations, such as those on travel, diet and lodging, are undermined by decisions in Brussels?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1379	It's not that ESA has tried out the Supreme Court. It was the subject of tariffs that came to its decision, and it is only a clarification of the representative Lightbakken said in his main post. As I had in my reply to Navarsete, the government obviously works actively against both work crime and social dumping. The representative knows that well. Not least, the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs presented this in his part of the EEA declaration, which took place in the autumn. So I think it's very interesting that we have a debate on an SV proposal to explore alternatives to the EEA Agreement, but none of the representatives are talking about what these options should be, and how they could serve Norwegian interests better. What you talk about all the time is what you think is wrong with the EEA agreement. We can have a debate on that, and we often do. But no one is willing to say anything about what they care about alternatives to the EEA Agreement, which would serve Norwegian interests better.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1388	A broad study from the no-side has been presented that points to a number of possible alternatives. The point of getting a public inquiry is just getting a discussion that can be more about carefully elaborated discussions about the alternatives. It's very noticeable that the parties that constantly demand us answers to what the alternatives are, at the same time, refuse to enter into a thorough process of what the alternatives should be. It's hard to draw any other conclusion than that one might be a little afraid of what the conclusion will be, because you don't want to do it. I want to challenge the foreign minister in the action room, because it is always being brought forward. It is difficult for Norwegian trade unions to be convinced that the space for action is very large, when it is such that every time a right-wing government is elected, what they have done to exploit the space for action will be overestimated, for example. the Norwegian refusal to review the Postal Directive. How can Norway say no to EEA Directives whose right will turn that decision on the first occasion?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1395	Before I answer that, I will answer the question related to providing a broad investigation. That part of the Norwegian enlargement – just a small one – that wants an analysis of alternatives to the EEA Agreement needs to have an idea of what those options should be before initiating an investigation process and potentially triggering an EEA reporting process. I think it's very strange that you don't have a clearer and clearer thought around it. We know what the options are. I listed them in my post, and we also know what the consequences of them are. We know how it hits countries that choose other solutions. In some areas, those countries may think that there is a better solution, but for Norway, our interests are best served by the EEA Agreement – if we do not have full membership of the EU. The right of reservation is a question we have raised in the past. The right of reservation is real, but it has never been meant to be without consequences, and it will apply in a concrete assessment of whether the right of reservation will be applied in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1402	The problem with the space for action and the right of reservation is this: when a civil majority in the Grand Duchy decides and accepts the compulsory privatisation of Norwegian rail through the Railway Directive, a new majority can never do it again. When a red-green majority decides to stop the liberalisation of the Post, a civil majority can do so again. That means that in the long run, the space for action and the right of reservation are very small, because the bourgeois parties will always roll back the progress that trade unions are winning, for example. in the case of directives, whereas it is never possible to do the opposite. It shows the inherent bias and injustice inherent in the EEA system. I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs if it is such that she will refuse to look at the options for the future, because no one knows today – even if it is easy to harp on the chaos around brexit – what the result will be. The only thing we know is that the relationship between the EU and foreign countries is changing. Is the government's no a no forever?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1409	I think it is uplifting to hear that the representative Lightbaking estimates that this government is going to sit forever, and I take it as a positive sign. I think it is very special that the starting point for the question and debate that Lysbakken is now conducting is that the EEA Agreement forces a forced privatisation of the railway. That's just not right. But that's the kind of argument we very often meet from the no-side. The fourth railway package provides for competition to be the general rule, but the legislation is not locked. This means, at the same time, that contracts can still be awarded in the same way as we do to the NSB today, and not least: the railway package does not require the State to surrender ownership to the railway. The State may continue to own the infrastructure and there is no requirement for rail to be privatised, even if access is granted to private companies to operate on rail. We need to have the right starting point for the debate. And then it gets better.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1416	There is a lot of undemocratic about the EU, but I believe that the Foreign Minister is making the EU appear worse than it actually is. There is a kind of picture of an authoritarian institution where even the least deviation from the Brussels decision is dangerous, almost punishable. It is dangerous to use the right of reservation within the EEA, we should believe South. It is also dangerous for Norway to think as much as about solutions other than the EEA. It seems almost like having an independent assessment of what is best for Norway is a kind of action that will trigger responses and penalties from the EU. In that case, who is to punish Norway if, on an independent basis, we decide to investigate alternatives to the EEA, and is the EEA so tight and so tight that it would pose a kind of danger if the Norwegian enlargement decided to investigate the alternatives to this agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1421	Now the representative Moxnes is doing what he loves most in the world when it comes to debates. It's first to draw up an image and an argument that I don't have, and then he argues against it afterwards as if I have it. I have not said that it is dangerous to use the right of reservation, but I have pointed out that it has consequences. Nor have I said that it is dangerous for Norway to investigate alternatives. I have just pointed out that it is unwise, and I believe that Norwegian interests are best safeguarded by the EEA Agreement, unless we go for full membership of the EU. I believe that the signal we would send today to investigate alternatives to the EEA agreement for Norway would be a signal that would be unfortunate for Norway to send in a situation where there is a lot of concern about international policy, where we have a strong and solid agreement that takes care of business interests, the interests of the districts, and that helps to ensure economic prosperity and growth, and that pays for very many of the welfare reforms that Moxnes wants to spend money on.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1428	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1435	There has been a lively debate, especially with regard to the somewhat more sobering position that the Committee has taken, but that is of course the case when the EU and the EEA are on the agenda. I would like to start by saying that SV and the Central Party are not really very interested in the reservation options; they are interested in another provision of the agreement, namely the one that says ‘cancellation’. It's their end. Everything they do – whether they call it investigation, lighting or whatever it is – has its end. I might not have to talk so much about the center party when it comes to international role models, but SV has a lot of equivalent sister parties. I'd like to say hello to Mr. Margrete Auchen, SF representative of the Folketing. She represents a party that is in favour of the EU and called for Norway to participate in a joint Nordic conference two days ago. After 45 years, even SF and SV politicians, who are close to each other, in Denmark, believe that their working life has not been damaged, their business life has not been damaged, their group, which they represent in their parliaments, has not been harmed. But they ask where it will be of Norway, and they probably also ask for their political likes — perhaps not so much after hearing the debate here, but we'll have to assume it anyway. At the same time, the proud defenders are outside when we hit the world outside of ourselves in the Nordic region. Then the proud defenders and contributors to what we call the Nordic model, which is the Norwegian model, are only in different variants. After 45 years in the EU, there has been no subscription to the right-wing policy that anyone makes as here. I think it's weird. I want to use the last part of the post to remind you of the excellent review that the representative Grimstad had. We have frozen conflicts in Europe. He mentioned Ireland, but we could also mention Cyprus – two opposing groups, now living in detachment because of EU rules. We could mention the Balkans, which has to settle their own territorial disagreements in order to get even on the candidate list. We could mention Vallonia and Flanders — more innocent examples — but also the Baltic. Now, in the context of brexit, all of Gibraltar came up again. So we see that kind of international cooperation is with – very concretely – and builds peace in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1448	First, to the representative of Navarsete, who says that we can continue with the trade agreement after the termination of the EEA Agreement. The EEA Agreement states: «Each Contracting Party may withdraw from this Agreement by giving at least 12 months' written notice to the other Contracting Parties.» The Trade Agreement states that the agreement may be terminated by each of the Contracting Parties by notifying it to the other Contracting Party and that the validity of the contract expires 12 months from the date of its publication. How can anyone guarantee that the EU will not exercise the right to terminate the agreement at the same time as we terminate the EEA Agreement? You can imagine that they would like to have a slightly better negotiating position when they are negotiating it with us in the future. No one can guarantee it. The only guarantee we have is that we will continue under WTO conditions. So to the representative Light Hill, who says we haven't seen the options, and uses as an argument that a person still doesn't know the result of brexit. No, that's exactly what I'm saying, because one doesn't know the result, and one can't at least put down a selection and figure out what the result is of brexit. That's 100 pst. If it had been so simple – to put down a selection, get out and get the answer – they would have done it too far. The representative Lighthouse's description of social dumping was very good, but what about the reason? Is the EU and EEA the reason for this? We have activity in Norway: oil investments have gone sky-high again, and we drive and build a whole new city here in Oslo. There are probably as many high blocks built here in the last few years as in the whole of Bergen, but I don't know. Our fishing industry is going like just Christmas, the trailer transport out of the country is big, and all this creates the need for labour. There are 332,000 EEA citizens in Norway who are stuck here. We have 8 000 commuting to and from, and we have 64,000 unemployed in Norway. So we have to bring in the labour force. Regardless of EEA or EEA – we need that labour force. It helps to create challenges in the labour market, but we have the opportunity to do something about it. There are measures that can do something about it, which must be implemented. They're the ones that might be defective, and we haven't. But debt on the EEA? If we cut the EEA Agreement and bring labour under WTO conditions, is it any better? That'll give you the exact same problem. The point is to get rid of social dumping, we have to put into practice Norwegian national measures, and we can do so at the bottom of the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1468	I'd like to warn the representative Sande against underestimating the residential building in Bergen. There's a lot going on there as well. But to get back to the topic: Much of this debate is discussions that we know well about. A good part of the counter-arguments I respect, but I must also say that there have been a few posts where I think the level is frighteningly low. The representative, Reiten, says that the negative parties work for Norway to stand without an agreement — ‘with an ice-cold overlay’. No, we're working for Norway to have a better deal. The representative Grimstad speaks very much about the Irish border and even about the first world war. I think it's important that the ground contact is restored here. What I notice about the representatives of the civil parties is that no one is talking about what is the starting point of this EEA debate, namely the situation in the labour market. It is symptomatic of lots who manage to write an entire government statement without mentioning social dumping in one place. So let's talk a little less about World War I and a little bit more about the reality in Norway today and the people that this debate is about, the people who experience employment and pay conditions put under pressure -- in industry, on the roads, on the construction sites. If the bourgeois parties had been a bit concerned about them, they would have had a little greater credibility in this debate. That's what's the starting point for us to have an EEA discussion, with the strength it has in Norway. So it's not to avoid that parts of the debate are about brexit. I think it is important to bear in mind that the Norwegian EEA criticism – just like the Norwegian resistance to EU membership – comes from a completely different location from the UK, with a completely different starting point. It has been the left-hand side and the trade movement, together with the centre, which has promoted EEA criticism in Norway. The chaos of British politics is now largely due to British problems — the Irish border, the political slump of action. There is nothing in the situation that in itself shows that it is impossible for a country outside the EU to negotiate. On the contrary, I believe that the European Union has been quite constructive in its dealings with the British. And it's a little strange that those in this room who love the EU the most, at the same time, are making the EU a negotiating partner so impossible that we can't even launch an investigation here at home, for fear of frightening them. There is some dissonance in that image of the EU. The truth is that we do not yet know what kind of agreement the United Kingdom and the EU come into being. I don't think we'll know for a while. In any case, it will form a new template, probably for the relationship between the EU and foreign countries. So I'm going to admit it's a little scary that the EU has set the date of graduation to Halloween. Nevertheless, I would like to stress that we do not know the result.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1482	The EEA Agreement has served Norwegian enterprises and jobs well, it is often called the EEA Agreement. Yes, it is easy to trade with the EU. That was before 1994, and that was after 1994. But then there are two important points around the EEA that have really been raised lately. One is, of course, the shadows of EEA membership. It is the shadows of the four freedoms, which everyone knows – the free labour market, the social dumping, which has been mentioned here a great deal, and the overarching of the national law. I think the fans, too, really think it's important, and they'd rather not talk about it. But these sides are so serious that the followers have to take them seriously. The second point is the myth that there are no alternatives to the EEA. Out of the EEA, well, ask a lot of people, those who don't have the story inside, or those who might not read anything other than some kind of inherited truth in the papers. The Foreign Minister, too, is asking for alternatives in this debate. That's exactly what we're going to do. There are many alternatives, and SV and many on the negative side point to a mutually balanced trade agreement with the EU as a single option. Norway had full market access for industrial products before 1994. It would be in the common interest of the EU and Norway to maintain such an agreement also for services, I am quite convinced of that. More than 150 countries are dealing with the EU today. None of them need to align with EU laws or weaken their collective agreements – they do not need to. If Norway cancels the EEA Agreement, one could go back to the 1973 Free Trade Agreement, negotiated by Jens Evensen. It's at the bottom. In those areas not covered by the Free Trade Agreement, WTO rules and other international agreements will regulate those previously covered by the EEA. Remember, about half of all international trade is free of customs duties. But there are negotiations that need to get all the details in place, that is the way negotiations are going on. Remember, too, that the EU market will have Norwegian goods. Also, do not forget that Europe is interested in Norwegian purchasing power. One shall be aware that Norway is the sixth largest export market in the Union. Not everyone is aware of it. We buy goods from the EU for 300-400 billion. kr per year. They need to trade with us, and they need to trade both ways. All logic suggests that. What's amazing is that the majority in this room doesn't even want to explore the alternatives to the EEA – in a world that's changing so much.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1497	Let me first say, to the representative of Reiten, that it is completely inappropriate for the Workers' Party to negotiate away the EEA Agreement in future government negotiations. So the Lighthouse says, "We want a better deal than the EEA." But we'll never hear better for what, and for who. We have requested this, but have not received an answer. The main options to an agreement with the EU are our EEA Agreement, where we are within the internal market, or a third country agreement, a trade agreement, where we are outside the internal market. These are the main options. The EEA is our trade agreement. Being in the market means that three-quarters of Norwegian exports have a domestic market of 500 million people. That's a very important difference. Saying that this is not about our working life is totally misunderstood. It's about securing jobs. There are social dumping challenges in Norwegian working life, but it is not one of the measures taken that have been halted by the EEA Agreement. On the worker side, the EEA rules are minimum rules, not maximum rules. So we have a government that should do more, we can't blame the EEA Agreement for that. Those who say that we can use the old trade agreement ignore the fact that trade today is something else than it has been. It's about value chains, integration. A car in the United Kingdom is made up of several thousand parts from many countries. That's why having boundless passage is very important. Then we have the integration of services and goods, and about. 40 pst. the export value is now in services, often linked to goods. There is no trade agreement that is good enough to capture. If you go around and believe that, you should get involved in trade policy. As the representative Amundsen said, this market access is vital for Norwegian companies. It's important. So if we're going to have an agreement, it's going to be outside the market; then it's going to be the end of free movement and the common labour market. But what about the 330,000 EU citizens who live and work in Norway? What rights should they have? We have to think about that. Or should we send them home? They can't just be here without rights. Who will ensure that they receive health care and rights if we are outside the common legislation? And so I would say that there is one party in this room that should be the biggest defender of the EEA Agreement, it is the Centre Party, because on the day that the EEA Agreement would be confused for some reason, then it is the political forces for membership that become the strongest.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1512	I have to say that I find it a little fascinating to listen to some strong words that are used to argue to stop what is an investigation, which in my head is about acquiring knowledge on the table. That's why there are actually several of us who are not only followers of investigations, but actually also of impact assessments – even though it is becoming fewer and fewer of us. I believe that in that description it is not difficult to argue for market access, to argue for Norwegian companies, the economy and the vitality of and the importance of the EEA in that way. But what I'm asking for is that the same ones, who see the benefits, can also point to the disadvantages that exist improperly, and that have just become more and more visible and obvious to most people. And then I think it is relevant to discuss the impact the EEA agreement has had on Norwegian working life after opening east in 2004. It cannot be argued that it has had no negative consequences, for example: for the construction industry. It seems to me quite obvious that we have had new challenges in Norwegian business as a result. It is very good to sit in Holmenkollen and wish cheap building workers when building on their home, when you are not even exposed to competition, such as. a lawyer, high in the food chain. Here, there's a difference between people. And there have been consequences, as the Frisian Centre has also pointed out: for some low income groups, or those with medium incomes, the competition that has come from the east has had an impact on wage fixing. So I think it's a relevant issue that needs to be addressed when discussing the benefits of the EU. This is not the best time to take a big EEA debate, and it is precisely because what we see now, with brexit, creates the impression that there is no alternative to the EU and in the Norwegian context of the EEA. But then we have to remember that it's a political chaos, what we see as a result of brexit. It is not an economic chaos as a result of going out – because you are still a member. I would warn against providing negative descriptions that there is no alternative to an EEA agreement in the form it exists today, or a membership of the EU. It is clear that there are alternatives, and that knowledge should be sought.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1521	The representative Lightbakken believes that I am maximum when I talk about peace in Europe. On the contrary, I believe that I am rather depressed, not least in view of the scenario that the representative Tetzschner drew up. Rather, the slide will talk about the labour market situation, and I think the Minister for Foreign Affairs has explained that in a sufficient way. I'll bring up another theme. Earlier today, we have had a debate in the Chamber on climate related to the protection of ants. And no, this isn't about someone kneeling in ants and not going on, it's about research collaboration. The figures that the representatives of SV and my colleagues in the Left have made regarding the volume of carbon stored in our ants are the result of research. Carbon capture cannot be carried out without a significant research effort. The green shift cannot be carried out without international research cooperation. World society – and I repeat: the world community – aims to limit total warming to 1.5 degrees in comparison with pre-industrial time. Human creativity must be extended to the utmost in order to achieve this while preserving our level of well-being. If we're going to make it, we're totally dependent on research environments working together across borders. One of the main tools for this cooperation is Horizon 2020, the EU Framework Programme for Research and Innovation Cooperation. Norwegian researchers are strongly identified here. The Bergen Mountain Centre, for example, plays in the Champions League in climate research. Before Christmas, the Centre received EU funding for three new projects that could close key knowledge gaps in climate research to support future reports from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. The projects involve professional environments from a two-digit number of countries, but are managed from Bergen. In the middle of the United Kingdom’s brexit chaos, it is alarming that parties such as the Centre Party, SV and Red will seriously withdraw Norway from the EEA Agreement. In fact, they will also make it more difficult for the Bjerknescentrum and other top Norwegian environments to carry out excellent research. These proposals are based on a reasoning that the United Kingdom’s exit from the EU will somehow open up better agreements in the future. Let me say: the United Kingdom is an important research nation with which we still want close professional cooperation. But brexit is going to make it harder for us. Recently, for example, The Research Council notifies that the danger of a hard brexit means that Norwegian applicants for Horizon 2020 need to carefully assess the risk by cooperating with UK partners. Norway needs the EEA, and the EU needs Norway, among others. for the sake of the climate.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1540	The President will point out that Section 55 of the Rules of Procedure is very clear that the speaker should stick strictly to the issue under discussion. The President believes that the last post might have been in border countries and asks the next speakers to stick strictly to the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1545	These themes are interrelated, because our biggest challenges in the world today are related to climate, migration and poverty, and these are challenges Norway cannot solve alone. We are dependent on cooperation with other countries through, for example: EEA. That is why I am very pleased that yesterday the government asked the Stortinget to join an agreement with the EU on the joint fulfilment of the 2030 climate change target. It is the most binding climate agreement Norway can conclude. The agreement ensures that we achieve our climate objectives, and it will provide a good, committed framework for Norwegian climate policy by 2030. We rely on close cooperation with the EU to achieve the climate goals. This is an area where the EU is at the forefront and where it is important that Norway connects. As others have pointed out, it is very special that we are discussing alternatives to our solid EEA agreement here when we see the chaos in the UK at the same time. The difficult situation of the British should be an important lesson for our home EEA debate. Brexit shows how bad alternatives to the EEA are, and what it means by uncertainty for British citizens and businesses. And when it is pointed out that we lack knowledge of alternatives, at least I am not reassured by the fact that the minority draws up the possibility of a bilateral agreement based on the model of the South Korea has with the EU, as an alternative to our EEA agreement. Many were afraid that brexit would give a domino effect, and that several countries would be able to use threats of leave as an entry point to acquire special concessions from the EU. It didn't work that way. On the contrary, Brexit has helped to bring EU countries closer together. Similarly, the brexit chaos should contribute to an even greater boost here at home on the EEA Agreement. For this reason, it is quite incomprehensible to me that the minority will launch actions that could create uncertainty about our main agreement with the EU. Basic liberal values are challenged in parts of Europe. I am concerned about developments in both Hungary and Poland, and I am pleased that the EU and the government have been very clear that we do not accept that Hungary, Poland or others are allowed to deal with important judicial institutions, media, courts and civil society. And when a growing generation asks us as politicians to join forces on global challenges, I think that's what we should do. There are alternatives to the EEA, but the options — the few times they are mentioned — are all looser links, where the outcome is more difficult, at least for some. Isolation is not progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1560	Since the EU vote in 1994, the centre party has been the major no-party and the no-to-EEA party. Nevertheless, today there has been a striking silence from the centre party in the debate, and that is why I will challenge the representative Liv Signe Navarsete directly. In a comment in the committee position, the Central Party says that one has a future objective of a referendum on the EEA membership of Norway. I'd like to ask Mr. Navarsete to be part of a thought experiment. One wakes up after the election night, and it turns out that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV together have a majority, but the SV and the Centre Party have one voice more than the Workers' Party, and a government platform is to be negotiated. How will the Center Party behave in such a situation? Will the Central Party force such a government to start work to notify Norway out of the EEA? And how does the representative, Mr Navarsete, see that the situation will then be for Norwegian agriculture? The EEA Agreement just ensured that we were granted a derogation in the agricultural sector that would allow us to have our customs protection without Norway meeting a criminal duty on our export products, which we are dependent on exporting to our largest trading partner, the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1567	I wasn't interested in brexit in any of my previous posts, but since it also came up later, and with reference to the posts of the representative Light Hill, who was then to blame part of the problems on a special part of the coalition that has worked to get Britain out of the EU: I hardly think we can call Jeremy Corbyn one who wants to subscribe to right-wing policy. Nevertheless, Labour, as an indispensable requirement for an agreement, demands the United Kingdom to continue in the customs union. As far as the Ireland border is concerned, it is not the limit that is now there, which is the problem; it is the one that is being established, precisely because it has had this inclusive cooperation that has bridged past deep divides both in Northern Ireland and between Ireland and the United Kingdom. It's precisely because you're facing the dilemma of which of the benefits you've had, you have to let go when you step out. It is amazing – and I also notice that in some of this debate – that you think you can get rid of all the disadvantages and obligations of an agreement and keep all the benefits. The discussion in the United Kingdom is just about not agreeing on which of the benefits you have had, which is the greatest. There has been a completely friction-free frontier, full access, one has been in a customs union, one has had access to all standards, which means that they are not used against one in unfair competition. Then you are faced with the demand to accept that Northern Ireland become part of the rest of the EU, and the border is to go in the Irish Sea. It's totally unacceptable, and that's why you want the United Kingdom to continue as a whole. It's precisely because they don't want to give up on the customs union, they don't want to let go of the friction-free trade, and they just don't agree with themselves on what victims they're going to give to get out of the deal. This has also led to the fact that most of the Lysbakken opinion groups, organised in Labour – a working party far to the left – simply want a different, new referendum because they have seen the problems. As far as other good EU measures are concerned, we also have what is now on the table of approval in Norway, how we are getting control of international money flows to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing, and how we live up to EU standards and targets for meeting emissions targets in 2030 – we are going down by 40 pst. It's pretty important that 500 million people join in and not just 5 million people.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1580	I am a sworn adherent to the EEA Agreement primarily because I come from the district. It shall be polite in the local election campaign to watch central party representatives go around and say that the export company they have in their country will lose its main domestic market. It's going to be interesting, and I'll make sure you're reminded of that. In an uncertain world, the EEA Agreement is just a secure agreement. It secures us with our 5 million inhabitants a market of 500 million inhabitants. It has served us well and will continue to do so in the future. It is the crime of working life that the representative Lysbakken believes is the basis for this proposal. When it was promoted last year, he said to the evening post that the background to the proposal was that he was tired of EEA members saying that there was no alternative, when they had never allowed an investigation on alternatives. There's two things to say to that. Firstly, there is a proven alternative, and that is EU membership. There is an alternative to many countries that have tried and gained good experience, and with which I would like to see Norway also gain experience. The second is that you don't want it anyway. You don't want EU membership, so it's a weakening of today's agreement you're after, and for the Right, it's not appropriate to go that way anyway. EEA support has never been higher in Norway and resistance to the EU has never been lower. That's good. There is now a majority in all EU countries to continue to be an EU member. Let's take the crime of working life. Prime Minister Erna Solberg has been one of the leading EU and EEA countries to combat labour-related crime. In her own letter to the EU in 2017, she sent a message that efforts had to be increased here. When the SV and the Central Party respond to this, foreign workers who do not operate under the law are showing that this is a European problem that needs to be solved in Europe. The alternative is to close the borders and not allow European workers to come here at all, but to cut them all over one chamber. I don't know if it's particularly solidarity. Therefore, SV should be the leading adherents of the EU labour market agency, whose task is to ensure that European workers are informed about their rights, about the conditions under which they can impose and about the working life of the various European countries. Privatisation and rail reform are frequently addressed. The railway reform and the postponement of the tender on the Sørlandsbanen were made by this government before the railway package arrived. This is not something that the EEA has forced us to do. This is our policy. Where the same driver can submit tenders as before of 6 billion. kr, but now it's 3 billion. kr, halve the price just because we introduce competition, and then we get 3 billion. to use for other important welfare purposes in that Kingdom, that is good. It's our policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1599	There's something fascinating about the Progress Party's Per-Willy Amundsen. He cultivates the favourite sport of the Advance Party, namely to appear with a Janus face. He says that the EEA Agreement is of vital importance to business – that is quite right – but then he will talk to all the critics about what is being criticised. He then said that knowledge of the alternatives to the EEA needs to be acquired. Yeah, but it's not hard. There are the following alternatives to the EEA: it is membership, and then it is the EEA Agreement, which is also the next layer of integration, where we are involved in almost the entire internal market except fish and agriculture, trade policy and euro. Then there are the Swiss agreements, which cover fewer parts of the internal market than the EEA Agreement does. Then we have the customs union that Turkey has with the European Union. It's an alternative. It's just going in and studying. Then we have the traditional free trade agreements that are of varying scale. Canada has the most modern deal. It also has some services, but is too bad for the United Kingdom, because it is a service economy. Then there are some partnership agreements. It's just to go in and study if you want to acquire knowledge, instead of standing here and complaining that you can't be allowed to investigate it under the authority of the Norwegian Government. I have to say it happens that in this debate, at least outside this Chamber, the Right Party is frightening with the SV and the Central Party in a government cooperation. In that way they have enough of their own plagues, after what we've heard here in the hall. So to Navarsete, who affected the EEA funds. The EEA funds are not a legal obligation. It is not a payment for market access, it is a misunderstanding. It is a contribution to social and economic cohesion in Europe, on which we are properly negotiating, but we are not legally obliged. That's the country we've been in before, which is now out. I am aware that the Central Party is deleting these in its alternative budgets, and that is quite alarming, because that means that there is no respect for agreements concluded between the Norwegian Government and other countries. There are some countries that operate like that, but I hope not that the Center Party really intends to be like that. We do not pay into the EU operating budget, except for the programmes in which we are involved, for example. Horizon 2020 and Erasmus. We really get quite a lot of good legislation free and free of charge from Brussels. Then we get some laws that are challenging, and we have to deal with Norwegian politics.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1613	The representative, Carl-Erik Grimstad, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1618	Of course, I take to heart the reminder I received about Section 55 of the Rules of Procedure, which I received from the President earlier. I probably haven't expressed myself clearly enough, but I'll try again. The European research cooperation in which Norway is currently a participant is largely the result of the EEA Agreement. The agreement opens the way for thousands of Norwegian academics to gain inspiration from European universities, and we benefit from European academics. In opening up doubts about the EEA Agreement, European cooperation is also at stake.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1625	Since the Center Party was challenged so clearly, we must, of course, take the word. Neither I nor the Central Party are negotiating government agreements from Stortinget's pulpit, so that's what we'll get back to. But at least there is no doubt – with the inauguration that the Central Party has received in recent times – that people out there were not afraid of our EEA position. It also shows the unlock to SV. I think that those who are so self-confident here on the speaker's chair may need to take an extra round in the mind box, and those who are trying to produce a new government like this – a coming government of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and possibly SV and others – actually have to listen a little to the Progress Party's posts here today, that's quite interesting. One tries to draw a very large picture of how difficult it becomes for a red-green government, but has representatives themselves in the pulpit who say very clearly that this is something a would have voted for, but one can't, unfortunately, for one in government. This applies to many proposals where the Progress Party could have intended to vote differently, of course, but then I would not be as capricious as the representative of the Christian People's Party was in the pulpit. Then I would have taken it a little calm. So it is said that we get legislation free of charge from the EU. But those laws could have been passed by Norway on our own — if we wanted to — and that was likely for people and countries. Today, however, we have a government that is on the verge of waiting for legislation to come from the European Union. In the case of network coverage requirements, for example, there is a rumor that it is being distributed in the EU. We can demand 100 pst. coverage for telephony, we have had a long time – and for the Internet, broadband and for fiber, if one wishes. We are free to demand the coverage we want, but here we are waiting for some directive to come at some point. There is only one example of how weak the government is when it comes to own initiatives for action that are important to people in this country. I demand, and hopefully we will soon, another government with other initiatives based on the Norwegian needs and governing both the policy, legislation and control of working life, business and other parts of society – from the Norwegian economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1636	The President will note that she thinks the representative spoke very unparliamentaryly, I do not want to repeat the expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1641	Excuse me, President. I'll change it to a'sit in peace'.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1646	It is then noted and noted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1651	When Norway had been in the EEA for six months, VG, among other things, wrote that we went against an export record, with an increase of 10.2 pst. from the same time of the year before. Aalesundfisk AS was among those who cheered on the agreement. They had a growth of 25 pst. in relation to the same period of the previous year because they received tariff reductions which had not been granted by the trade agreement. But they thought it was premature that the fish had to be processed elsewhere, since we lose opportunities when we are not a full member. We could create more jobs along the whole coast if that was the case, that would have been an alternative. It also stated that pregnant women had more rights in work, employers were required to give written agreements to employees, price cooperation between industries that damaged Norwegian consumers was prohibited, and Norwegian municipalities had to start digging up old rusty water pipes because Norwegian water quality did not reach EU standards. To take the last one: the State Institute for Public Health calculated that poor water quality in Norway resulted in 300,000 sick days. The food industry deleted, and the slaughterhouse Axel Dønnum AS installed their own sewage treatment plant because they did not pride themselves on the municipal water. The extra cost of Norwegian business was not just about the trade barriers between Norwegian companies to the EU, but about the fact that we did not have good enough standards at home, and we have. I do not know of a single agreement that gives Norway the benefits and opportunities that the EEA Agreement has given us. I do not know a single alternative that gives Norway as many advantages and integrates us as deeply into a market as the EEA Agreement. We're actually investigating the EEA Agreement every time we negotiate new trade agreements. We negotiate duty-free quotas for the export of Norwegian goods against duty-free quotas for imports of goods competing against our own at home. After the quota has been used up, customs barriers have been introduced. We have different standards on products and services, which in the worst case means that we are not compatible with the sale of our goods, or that we do not want to allow goods to enter our own consumers. Through the EEA Agreement, we have harmonised legislation to ensure that we have friction-free trade with our largest market, and that we know the quality of the goods that cross our borders. Through the EEA Agreement, we have guaranteed consumers the rights of everything from water quality to environmental standards on products and the prohibition of price cooperation. It's interesting that someone is going to think that we're getting an excellent deal with Argentina for all Norwegian products without being willing to open up a large duty-free quota on Argentine beef. It is well, when I think about it, a good argument against the EEA Agreement, but hardly in Norwegian agriculture interest. We entered into the EEA Agreement because it expands our scope of action – not because it limits it – because it gave Norwegian businesses greater opportunities than they had with the old trade agreement, because it ensured more Norwegian jobs throughout the country than the old trade agreement, and because it links us to our closest community of values in a stronger way than any alternative trade agreement would do. Alternatives exist – full membership.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1668	Audun Lightbakken has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1673	I would just like to say briefly that although the representative Michael Tetzschner knows a lot, the overview of the left-hand side of Europe is a little bit more limited. I am going to meet on Saturday with a number of our European cooperation parties preparing for the European Parliamentary elections, and there is no major difference between SV's analysis and most of the left parties on the left for social democracy down in the EU's analysis of the EU. The strategies, of course, are different, because some parties are within the EU and have to work to change the EU. Norway is outside the EU, and that is why we have this debate on what is the best form of association for Norway. But today's left-wing analysis in Europe is perhaps more common than ever before, with a strong bulwark against the economic policy pursued in Brussels.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1678	Per-Willy Amundsen has had the word twice before and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1683	Today, I have learned a new concept from the representative Svein Roald Hansen, something like: free and free legislation from the EU. It is evident that Norway is increasingly subject to EU legislation. I think that signals a lot of the problem I have raised in my previous posts, namely that you are not able to see the negative aspects of Norwegian membership in the EEA. That is the description that I think many people are familiar with, namely that the EU is increasing its power, that Norwegian sovereignty is being challenged. It's a challenge that I don't feel everyone takes equally consistently. [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1691	Steinar Reiten has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1696	I'm recording that the representative Navarsete thinks I'm very high, I can live with that. What I find unacceptable, however, is not to get answers to my questions, and there are questions that the business community in Norway is very concerned about because one sees a shift of power on the red-green side that creates unrest and uncertainty around the EEA Agreement. I just have to repeat my two questions: Will the Central Party enter into government negotiations with the aim of starting a process to terminate the EEA Agreement? And how does the representative see that agriculture is going to behave when we no longer have an agreement that ensures our high customs barriers, without imposing criminal duties on other products?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1703	There were a couple of posts here that made me draw again. The two posts just pointed to the need for a review of EEA membership, and one of them – I don't think it was intended that I should come up with these thoughts – was a contribution from the representative Sande where, for good reason, he could depict the thousands of vehicle trains leaving Norway, with precious cargo, preferably fish, down to Europe. Understood, this growth and this prosperity we can thank the EEA for. What's strange is that he doesn't then reflect on who's driving this fish. That's an interesting question. Then we are concerned with what many of us are concerned about, pay and employment, and the foreign workers in Norway. We've seen a look up about the payroll conditions of the drivers who run the fish that Sande is a little proud of, and it's scary. We're talking about the fact that we're in deficit all the time. We cannot control pay and work properly enough. I've been out on an education trip and been with some such trailers. I've seen how dominant foreign labour is. Each of these Baltic companies has 3000 to 4000 car combinations, they get 2-3 new ones every day, and they operate in Norway. They're the ones transporting Norwegian valuable cargo out of the country. We're talking about cabotage. There's become a familiar expression here in the hall, people know what it is, maybe not so many in the city, but we know what it means. It's hard to control. The second is third-country driving, which is even bigger and very difficult to catch. We're running late all the time. So that's the second post. I think it was a reply from the Minister for Foreign Affairs to the Lightbakken I stumbled over. This was the case with rail package IV from the EU. There we have been the best in the class to implement right-wing EU policies, including on transport. The Norwegian government has power and authority to do so, and they have so clearly done so, through the railway reform. There have been calls for tender on routes, but now it becomes mandatory – if we accept railway package IV. As far as I understood the Minister for Foreign Affairs, she said that we had the opportunity to set out distances at our own discretion to specific companies, and she referred to some exceptions. However, those exceptions are so cryptic and small that they do not apply in practice to Norway — we must be able to agree on that. I think everyone, at least in the Transport Committee, agrees on that interpretation. So then we have two sides that at least we in the Transport Committee see very, very often.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1712	The representative, Liv Signe Navarsete, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1717	Of course, the centre party is going to enter into any government negotiations based on our program. What will be the mandate of government negotiations and the selection to negotiate will not be decided today. It's decided at our national meeting in two years, but of course the Center Party is entering into negotiations based on our program. And so, how good is really the EEA agreement? Article 19 states that it shall be ‘reciprocal’ useful. Today we import six times as much agricultural products as we export. We're importing for 40 billion. EU kr. There's activity on a lot of gardening. This means that there could be far more than the 90 000 who work in the industry today. It could have been even more than that 150 billion. kr as a generator. The EEA Agreement has not been a closure for Norwegian agriculture. What is happening now is that Norwegian farmers lose their jobs because they import so much from the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1724	The representative Svein Roald Hansen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1729	Just a brief remark to the representative Amundsen, who says that there is an example of the EU taking on more and more power. In other words, there is no mysterious entity down in Brussels called the European Union, which is gaining power. But there are 28 countries that meet and agree that in that area we do things together, for example. that we are now to comply with the Paris Agreement terms and conditions for greenhouse gas emissions. That's what's happening. There are no bureaucrats taking power in Brussels. The same applies to Lysbakken, who talks about the economic policy pursued in Brussels. No, there is no economic policy in Brussels, but they agree on a framework for economic policy. Economic policy is the responsibility of the countries and is run in each country. And if the Navarsettes are dissatisfied with the Article 19 negotiations, I would just say, she should be looking forward to the demands of the EU on the agricultural side. If we are to negotiate a trade agreement, the Article 19 negotiations will be blueberries.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1738	The representative Leif Audun Sande has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1743	This is for Mr Nävra's representative. My point is that high activity creates a lot of problems. With the trailer traffic we have out and into the country, it requires more control and more money for control. It requires better rules. We could, for example, have the same cabotage rules as they have in Denmark — they are better than ours. We could have the right to generalized pay terms, if we wanted to. We could have run with more control, if we wanted. No one's gonna stop us from doing that. The EU Parliament is now coming with a new mobility package, for which the trade union movement in Europe is cheering, and they are going to negotiate with the Council. If they can let him through, it's a giant. My point is that activity creates problems. That's what it's for. It does not have an EEA connection, for it should not be such that only Norwegian drivers are to run fish from North Norway through Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1750	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1766	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1775	Today, we are discussing a proposal from the Labour Party on action against recriminalism. There is an important theme for your suggestions here. We experience that this type of crime creates insecurity in several local environments. As elected representatives, we must take this very seriously. We need to strengthen preventive measures and research and ensure appropriate and correct responses when criminal offences are committed. In the proposal, proposers highlight the importance of continuous action against criminal gangs and networks. Attention is also paid to the need to provide reprisals with better opportunities to get out of criminal environments. In addition, it is proposed to develop more youth units in criminal services, improve access control in prison, ban the sale of SIM cards to mobile phones without the identity of the buyer being checked and registered, as well as a number of amendments to, among others. the criminal law, the criminal procedural law and the code of arms, and the practice of child protection. In the letter of reply to the Committee of 18 December, the Council of State highlighted some of the work already done or in progress in this area. Among other things, reference was made to the state budget’s commitment to the prevention of recriminalism in some parts of the capital, as well as a commitment to Økokrim and Kripos. The Council of State also highlights the work being done on setting up a possible new criminal jurisdiction that limits participation in or recruitment to criminal organisations. He pointed out that Nordic research was to finalise an evaluation during 2019 on juvenile punishment and follow-up, and that the Riksadvokat has announced a national resumption rate through the work of the so-called Coordination Committee. One of the proposals supported by the Center Party is to build up a permanent effort against criminal gangs in the places it is in. Continuity in the fight against criminal gangs is important. It is not good enough if only action is taken immediately after the problem has been resolved, which will be resolved as soon as the problem is no longer in focus. Police need to be able to get a good overview of the environment and knowledge of the people involved. I think it's very positive that there's an extra bet against recrimination in the state budget, and I want to praise the government for it. I also understand at the Council of State that work is going on in the Ministry to develop several measures in the fight against recriminalism. However, we cannot be content with the situation today. The problem of recriminalism is ongoing, young people are recruited, children, into these gangs, and more people establish a criminal lifestyle from a young age. We need to get action done quickly, and we need long-term plans to fight the problem. The fact that this must be a priority for each police officer within the budget framework is a sentence that is constantly being repeated. I totally agree that the police locally need to have more room for action. It includes providing room for prioritisation within the framework and assessing how the efforts need to be made. What is not mentioned in this context is that the police district's economic space has been drastically reduced in recent years. A study commissioned by the government itself shows that the police districts’ economic space was reduced by nearly half a billion dollars between 2013 and 2016. A major reform of the police force has been launched which also swallows resources. The degree of ear-marked resources is also increased. I would like to thank the Committee for a good cooperation, and I hope for a good debate. I include the proposals to which the Central Party is a part of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1798	The representative Geir Inge Lien has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1803	We're going to be open to good ideas,' said Erna Solberg when the Day Revy asked her on January 22 how the new majority government would cooperate with the rest of the Storting. It was a promising statement, which I liked. The parties who are in government at all times do not have a monopoly on good ideas or important experiences and knowledge. It was not always as good as the red-green government to understand, even though some broad agreements were concluded. Those who criticized the red-green government that time – as I could understand – I had hoped not to start in the same way when you got a majority government yourself. If we want to do the best possible job for the population, as elected representatives, we should be good at listening and learning from each other. It is my hope that this can relate to the fight against criminal gangs and networks that build up in Oslo and in other urban areas around the country. Erna Solberg said in his speech to the Right National Meeting: ‘If the instruments we use do not stop the most hard-bombed, we must use tougher instruments and think again.’ If this innovation is serious, I hope it will mean that she and the government will also be open to good ideas and suggestions that come from others other than themselves. In the position we are discussing today, on 14 proposals from us in the Labour Party on new and stronger measures to stop criminal gangs and backers, it is such that the Centre Party and SV support a good deal of proposals, and the majority of the Committee recommends ten proposals. But the most interesting thing is that when you read the comments from the Right and the Advance Party in the setting, it is clear that there is really a basis for broad agreement on many of these proposals. Some important measures that are widely agreed according to the comments in the vote include: prohibit criminal gangs and their recruitment and participation in criminal gangs. It's changing the org.krim paragraph so that there will be more severe penalties when perpetrators are part of a criminal gang, so that more in the new type of organized crime in criminal gangs can be affected by that paragraph. A third point is that there is obviously a majority for a long-term national initiative or a project to stop the gangs in a better way. There is obviously a majority in favour of making it easier to take money and values away from them through civil custody. A fifth point is that there is obviously a majority for better law enforcement for bans, which can keep gang members away from their territories. There is also a clear majority in the position of several youth places in the criminal justice system for a few young people who commit so serious crime that this is required. A majority is in favour of child protection institutions capable of treating and caring for children who have committed serious criminal acts and not just giving them up and sending them back to their home. Several of these points have also been addressed positively in the media by representatives from the Right and the Advance Party. However, they will not vote in favour of any of the proposals, unfortunately. I hope you'll reflect on that in the debate, because you've had three years since I took up the idea of a long-term replay here in the Stortinget, to look at it. Four years have passed since I entered the Questionnaire on cooperation between the agencies in caring for children and young people at risk, that the obligation of professional secrecy should not prevent this. I took it up four years ago, got a positive response about developing a supervisor, look at the law, but nothing has happened. We have proposals for this today. There was a report in 2014 on cooperation between the agencies to withdraw the money more effectively from criminal environments, and there was an investigation on civil law withdrawal at the hearing, and that hearing was completed in February 2017. When I asked the Council of State at New Year's Eve about how it is, I got a very unclear answer as to whether anything has happened in the two years. It is unfortunately continuous that too little has happened. The councils were now out with a good and clear position – also in the Granavolden platform – about machete, but it is only to add it to the Arms Regulation §9a, it can be done at any time by the government and is not a great process. So my main concern here today is how we can get better progress in these matters. I had hoped that the government's parties would have been involved in asking the government for things, even things that might be drawfights about in the government, because then we could express a broad majority will here in the Storting about it. I had also hoped that you would say something about where you stand in the process, at least, giving us some information about when these things come. I hope you will contribute to this in the debate. I address the Labour Party's proposal, and I will also come back to proposal No in a later article. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1832	The representative Jan Boehler has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1837	Yesterday I was at the pub. There I saw football, and it went very well -- fire won! It's almost like a cliché that when you sit alone in a pub, you start talking to others. I spoke with a voter who sat for himself, and then the conversation turned into politics. He had strong views on various political issues; he had good input to us on the Stortinget; he thought we had potential for improvement both here and there, including. Travel billing writing. He also had some strong views that we should cooperate more across the party lines. He was a Workers' Party elector – he wanted to see there was more cooperation between the Workers' Party and the government parties. I could not promise him any government participation with the first, but I could promise him cooperation in matters like this. And I think that the representative Jan Bøhler should have a reward for the work he does with the thread problem, and for the dialogue we have had along the way in the work on the matter. It is right that the representative, Mr Bøhler, framed, that there is a basis for broad consensus on many points. He has mentioned it himself, I mention it again: Recruitment to gangs is about doing something about, higher penalties for some actions that are related to thread, by withdrawing values we have a great potential, control in prison I also think is exciting – a point that should definitely be further worked on, dealing with young repeaters – a major problem that we should find together in the solution of. So that's very good in the proposal from, among other things. Mr Bøhler. I think we can agree on some premises in this debate, namely that gang activity is married to a city. It destroys the safety, it destroys the well-being, and it destroys the growth of children and young people. We have to be very clear that we no longer accept that the gangs are ruining young people's lives, because that's what they do. I think we can agree in the Chamber today that the time of naivety is over. We're definitely going to help young people who end up on the slope. It's part of having big cities with big city challenges. But we cannot accept that we are fooled and ridiculed by people who speculate in our goodness. We have to set clear limits, to set clear limits is actually to show care to those who are involved in thread activity, but who can be rescued. I fully agree with the representative, Mr Bøhler, that it is, of course, easy to let ourselves be frustrated by the political tradition that we have that we do not always vote for proposals which, in isolation, are good. It's now the way it's been -- it'll take a long time to change that kind of tradition. I think the most important thing we're going to include in the debate is the consensus and the common view we have on very many points. I also think it makes sense that the department works thoroughly and widely with a number of proposals and comes back with them in a suitable way to the Stortinget. I look forward to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1852	My pubs are probably not as professionally rewarding as the representative Frølich's, but I will join in the praise he brings to the representative Bøhler for the commitment and level of knowledge both in this case and in several other interviews and matters of combating gang and youth crime. Combating criminal gangs and, not least, meeting the wave of juvenile delinquency we now see in Oslo, is perhaps one of the most important challenges in Police Norway at the moment. I'm also very proud to belong to both a party and to be part of a government team that takes this most seriously, and has done it several times, both through appropriations, in the government platform and in other contexts. I am also pleased that a majority, I believe, of the proposals proposed in this proposal for a representative has already been either proposed, notified or otherwise initiated, including by the government through government warnings or through clarifications in the government platform that will be followed up. There are also some things that we have not followed up on our own, because we believe it is not very accurate, among other things. the proposal for the registration of ID when buying SIM cards. But the intention behind the majority of the proposals we share. I can also mention some of the government that has already announced that it is being investigated or seen, and also what has already been done, including the involvement of police forces in Oslo through more prevention, but also through sharpening of competences. The government has said that more youth places are needed in the prison system and are working on it. It is mentioned in the government platform and also confirmed by the government that you are working on establishing a replication project. Appropriations for control of prison entries were strengthened in the budget during the autumn. The withdrawal of assets is announced in the Government Platform. There are a number of proposals I could mention, which the Labour Party is calling for through its proposals, but which the government is already working on. Some of them were also notified by the government before the Workers' Party promoted their proposals, but the Workers' Party should be commended for having spoken for some of them before we did so, among other things. machete ban. My point is that the intention of many of these proposals is supported, but we are already in the process of taking several of these measures. The important thing is that this is followed up well. The proposals that we are uncertain about, I hope the government will better explain and come back to us with a good decision-making basis, so that we can decide on them. I also want to mention some of the things that need to be done to improve the situation we see especially in Oslo, with both juvenile delinquency and repeat crime. These things are related — the increase in juvenile delinquency is dangerous for recruitment to the rest of the world. Among other things, I demand more effort and more involvement from the parents. Now, when we see young teenagers down to the age of 13-14 moving across the street to late night hours, and we see that younger and younger people also carry knives, it's a dangerous development. I believe that we also have to make the parents responsible and both encourage and request that parents engage more in what the children are doing in their spare time, and that they carry out a healthy assignment. Several of the stories we hear about are things that I think most of us feel also represent something wrong in the assignment. We're going to do our part from the political point of view, and the municipality has to do its part from the child protection side, but also the parents and the neighbourhoods it's about have to be more involved in and active about what the children are doing in leisure.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1865	I'm standing here at Stortinget's pulpit today as being for Oslo SV. For the day, I work in the first line of Child Protection, and I have previously worked in the Children's Guard in Oslo. My colleagues and I meet with the young people who are discussing today. We often meet them before they have become part of the police statistics, defined by young repeaters. It is children and young people who have grown up under very vulnerable conditions. Many of them have been in and out of the country and have severe traumas. Often, efforts have been made to help both the children and the family over many years. Then, of course, you can ask yourself if the help was right, and you can ask yourself if child protection has the right help. It is also an important debate. Then we stand here, then, talking about what is gross crime. But there are also children. These young people are from all over the country, but they find common ground. Together, they feel like they're part of something. They make friends, meaning, master, money. Youths experience a lot in the community, and we also need to understand that. But what does a social worker and preventive police do when a youth makes $12,000 a week and is satisfied with his life? Then it's not enough with a waffle, a safe adult and a new leisure activity. They need so much more, because it's gone so far. These are often boys who keep weapons and drugs. They're runaways for older criminals. Some have committed serious violence and assault. These children should be helped by the Child Welfare Service, it has been answered by political groups, but in common with many of these young people, as they have said, they have received help. The problem is it hasn't worked. Despite the fact that the public is inside, they've been recruited by criminals. This worries me. Not only am I concerned about the young people we're talking about here, but they also pose a significant risk in their community. We have to take over how much and how comprehensive help these need, not just to protect the community, but to give them an actual chance of a new start. Today, child protection services do not have the means to help young people. I see that the proposal refers to the forced residence of the Swedish Children's Protection Act, §4-24, but this is in practice neither treatment nor anything long-term. It's about a few days' placement. The experience of the Child Welfare Service also suggests that these locations have no effect either. The proposal also refers to the possibilities of consent by longer placement, but we who work out there know that this does not work. Consent can be drawn. These young people are often on the run, and it is very demanding then to actually get in the position to get a relationship and to provide treatment. The institutions available to childcare services are often not good enough either. Many of these, often private actors, do not have the skills, professionals or the framework to which young people are subjected. That's what reality is out there, and it's also a political responsibility. I refer you to the UN Children's Convention, which assumes that children are only going to prison as a last resort. These are those who have committed the most serious crime. But we see that the youth units, referred to as the juvenile prisons, have a completely different crew from that of the childcare services. They don't just have prison officers, they also have good professionals. What the most traumatised young people need is time and competence — time for a good relationship, and then they have to be one place over time. Then they cannot have the opportunity to leave. For this I know: Once you've experienced a lot of betrayals, which these kids have, it takes time to build trust and let someone in. Competence is needed to figure out what kind of help they actually need. Competence is needed to work with the cognitive, or whatever it might be they need help with. We need to address the fundamental problems in order to give them a real chance. These young people have experienced that many have given them up. They need to be seen and cared for, and they need to be taken seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1895	I would like to refer to the proposal by the representatives of the Grand Chamber, Mr Bøhler, Mr Vågslid, Mrs Aasen-Svensrud and Mr Gahr Støre, and the position of the Committee on Legal Affairs. I think it's good with the commitment to this matter, and I want to share that commitment. Work on juvenile crime and repeat crime is an important area of government commitment. The State budget for 2019 has therefore allocated 50 million. to a broad focus on the police, prosecution authority, conflict councils and child protection. In addition, it's worth 37 million. the police's crime prevention work related to the ongoing area operation in Oslo. I would also like to point out that the Riksadvokat and the Police Directorate, cf. the letter of 21 February of this year ordered police and prosecution authorities to draw up a plan to combat recriminalism in the central eastern region. Work on recrime has been launched in the Granavolden platform, and the government has also developed a new action plan on child and youth crime. In a short time, the final report comes from the follow-up to the evaluation of juvenile punishment and follow-up. It will, together with some input from other key actors, provide us with a better knowledge base to make changes in responses, so that they become more effective and adaptable to the target audience. The government will also look at other possible legislative changes that can strengthen efforts against more established criminal environments and organised crime. The criminality of being a member and participating in a criminal society as well as the recruitment of others to such an environment shall be assessed. The same applies to proposals for a residence ban in a larger area over a longer period of time. It is prohibited to carry a knife in public places unless the knife carrier has a legitimate purpose, such as: a carpenter who has a customs knife to cut into insulation. The Arms Code already prohibits, i.e. bans on trade and total bans, weapons such as spring knives, stylettes and batang knives, as well as other particularly dangerous weapons and objects without legitimate purpose and which appear to be a violent product. However, most knives, axes and other tools have a variety of uses and will therefore not be covered by the ban. It may also apply to machete, which has some similar characteristics with other knives which actually have a legitimate purpose. The police directorate has informed that there is an increasing trend in revolving environments in the capital to arm themselves with machete. In order to limit access, the government will present a proposal for a ban. But there are some dilemmas about such a ban, and we're working on solving them. Among other things, the difference, the physical difference between a joint knife and a machete, is a difficult thing to pull out, and we can't risk suddenly ending up with a bill that prohibits the joint knife. Articles prohibited under the Arms Regulation cannot, as a general rule, be introduced into the country either. Furthermore, it is prohibited to leave or transfer knives and similar articles with a blade length exceeding 25 cm to persons under 16 years of age. In order to facilitate the work of the customs administration on the seizure of dangerous knives, it may be appropriate to clarify in circulars issued by the Police Directorate, which operationalises and clarifies the provision of the Arms Regulation. I want to ask the Police Directorate to do just that. I am also very pleased that a few days ago, the Oslo police officer issued a new charge directive that increases the fines and strengthens the efforts to carry a knife in public places. As I said in the Storting yesterday, there should be zero tolerance for carrying a knife in Oslo. With regard to reporting to the Storting on the extent to which the new legal framework for data collection has been used, I refer to what has previously been said by the department of the case that such reporting could damage the police's work. It is important that the criminals cannot drive around in expensive cars and ‘flashes’ a wealth for younger ones, so that they become an unfortunate model. Retirement is an instrument that we need to use more. Proposals have been made by the Committee to include a supplement in the provisions of the Criminal Code on the withdrawal of financial dividends, with a rule on the care of those who leave the values of recriminals in their name. There is already a long way to go criminalised by the rules on money laundering, and a further expansion of it raises some demanding questions of principle.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1916	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1922	I perceive the situation, both locally here in Oslo and also from a number of other places in the country, as being quite serious, especially because there are more such youth-criminal groups, and then the backers get more power. But in the setting, the government parties write: ‘These members are very pleased with the overall effort now being made to combat recriminalism.’ That seems to me to be contrary to the reality of the situation. And the Police Directorate and the National Attorney wrote in a letter dated 21 February 2019 that they ordered Oslo Police Districts and East Police Districts to prepare by 15 March 2019 ‘a revised plan preparing the basis for a strong, committed and broad response to the so-called ‘links’ in the central eastern region.’ They require reinforced efforts. There is an impatience expressed by the Riksadvokat and the Police Directorate, which I do not think is in accordance with that description in the vote, that one is'very satisfied'. Does the council agree that you can't hit your chest and be very satisfied?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1939	I understand that this comment is supported by the government's commitment to recriminal crime in 2019, where it is among other things. – as I pointed out instead – has been allocated 50 million. kr. So, what the Riks lawyer has come up with is a follow-up to exactly what the government has decided to do, that now you're going to run harder against recrime, that you've given money to the fight against recrime. So you've granted $24 million. to strengthen police action. Eight million. kr of it goes to Økokrim and Kripos, and 16 mill. The strengthened initiative in the Oslo area is directed towards juvenile crime and recriminalism. This is in addition to the 50 million. In addition, the European Union has continued its efforts to strengthen its efforts to combat juvenile delinquency and the rest of the world. In addition to this, a comprehensive action plan is also needed, which allows us to really get caught up in these bands in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1946	I am pleased with the figures that the Council of State refers to, but there are some concrete measures that are more than budgetary, which we focus most on here today. I had an experience last day. I spoke to a mother who had a boy who had been sitting on the youth unit at Eidsvoll, where there are only four places for the whole of Oslo and the East. They were very satisfied with the offer – psychologists, child protection, education, etc. – but he had to get out of there because it was full, a younger one was to be given priority. The police are also saying in the class struggle today that for a dozen young people in Oslo, there are places in the youth unit that would be the best – get them out of the environment, get the good offer. Now, when the government parties have been talking for almost a year about the need for such measures – and it's just about increasing the number of places in the youth unit at Eidsvoll, they say they have the opportunity to expand there – is this a matter for the government now working on, budgetically, and in which the Council of State wants to move forward?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1953	As the representative Jan Bøhler is probably aware, I can't begin to comment on what we're working on in the budget, but I think it'll be very interesting to see this evaluation we're getting. It's also my impression that the youth unit is doing a very good job. and I'm now waiting anxiously for the evaluation of it, not least given the rate of relapse for those who have been there now. It's quite clear that we have to run a little bit different from what has often been done before, and it's also clear that we have to be more consistent with younger criminals. We also have a challenge with criminals under 15 years of age. What worries me very much is that there are 13-year-olds on the street in Oslo with a knife, and so we also have to improve the offer to be made through child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1958	I thank you for your answer. The constant wait for evaluations etc., I see it as the most important thing about juvenile punishment and youth follow-up. The youth units have such a small number of places that there is a rather small basis for evaluating. The feedback is very good, and the police are very much calling for it. But one more question about withdrawal: civil law withdrawal, which the Council of State did not go into, is something that the government parties, quite ok, talked about last summer, you're going to take the bling from the gangs. This is not done by using today's legal system, which is linked to a criminal case decision. If you can take civil law, it's a simpler trail, without the extensive criminal proceedings. We had an investigation -- that's right there -- two years ago. When I asked the then State Council a few months ago, there was no answer as to whether he had touched this investigation, where the hearing was completed in February 2017. Does the current Council of State intend to address it?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1965	We're going to look at this with civil custody. Then there's a question of whether it's going to be as effective as being able to withdraw under the criminal law. There is something about the fact that today you can do withdrawals in connection with the investigation and that kind of thing, and then the item will be withdrawn until the matter is settled in the legal system. It's probably a little bit more complicated when it comes to civil law withdrawal. In addition, there are completely different establishments to carry out such a type of withdrawal, and you need a different type of legal home. But that's absolutely interesting, and if this is what can help to get the expensive cars away from the criminals, I'm absolutely positive to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1972	One of the reasons we're promoting the proposal of care is to get the expensive cars away from criminals. Now they have learned that they are not going to leave the cars in their name, but leave them in the name of people who have nothing on the flyer. The proposal for care is a recommendation I received from, among others. People who work on this at the Riksadvokat, so I would recommend that the Council of State not to dismiss too easily. But I want to ask if what the government said about data reading. What we are asking about here from the Storting, is simply a follow-up to what the government said to us when promoting the law enforcement of data reading a few years ago, that it was important to be able to combat criminal gangs who have backers operating in the hidden, to get into their communications. And we haven't asked for anyone to report in detail on how the police use it, what happens in cases; we've simply asked, Is it used? Do you have resources to do that? Have people been trained to do that? For the answers have always been unclear, and there is a great need for this. That's the question, and I think you have to be able to answer the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1979	What has been assessed by the Department here is that if you provide information about the type of tool and the type of law enforcement that you have used, you can provide information that some people will perceive in such a way that they can adapt to the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1984	Does the Council of State see that a ban on machetes could be problematic for professionals? He was inside it in his post. There are many – trade union workers in both horticulture and horticulture and carpenters – who use the type of knives that are now planned to be banned. It will also create major problems for many, including: outdoor life. We have today, as the Council of State also said, a law prohibiting the use of knives in public places. I wonder: if there is another measure the Council of State would rather consider, e.g. strengthening customs duties by means of budgetary means or permitting the seizure of knives that are born in public places, before they arrive at them, with regard to age limits and miscellaneous such? Could the Council of State specify what he is thinking of coming into the circular?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1991	It is clearly established in the Granavolden platform that the government wants to ban machetes. Then I have to give an honest statement: I thought this was quite simple, that a machete was a machete, but it wasn't that simple. A machete has a lot of different designs, and when you're going to issue a prohibition on a knife, you have to come up with a precise description, so that that type of knife is banned. Then we come up with the problem of other types of knives, which are quite similar, and which have a legitimate purpose, for example. a joint knife, which is actively used by a profession. So here's some dilemmas, so we're now working on finding a precise legal formula that makes us hit machete, and not knives that can be used for legitimate purposes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e1998	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e2006	I wasn't at the pub yesterday, but I was in an interview with NRK Evening News about the report that has been presented today on the reform of the police. This debate is not about that, but I would like to start by saying that no matter what we discuss in the Justice Committee when it comes to the police, we are totally dependent on getting a better resource situation for the police districts. It also applies to Oslo police districts. Even if the Minister of Justice and all those who have our justice ministers before him have shown themselves to be bets, it has become a habit that one in this Chamber does not take with him the fact that the police districts actually have to cut. Therefore, I found the report that the Minister of Justice and I have also discussed before today, in the NRC, to be quite discouraging, when the resource situation today, as police officers also experience it, has deteriorated since 2013. So I'm a little tired. I'm sorry that the Right Party and the Advance Party and the government are praising Jan Bøhler for their commitment. It almost reminds me of a rule technique. Now, for several years, Jan Bøhler and the Labour Party have called for action against recriminalism, had concrete proposals, challenged Question Time, and received answers from the Minister of Justice for the Minister of Justice that this work is in progress. And then it's the show we're going to sing today as well. That's what I'm tired of. I mean a sheep's voice for what one is for. If not, one should at least be something more concrete about when one intends to do things, and when we can expect follow-up. I think that we are a few about some of the measures we are discussing today, but I could imagine that the Minister of Justice – and many others – could be more specific when one is thinking of coming to the Stortinget with action. Because I think there's a lot of people who live in Oslo, but also in other cities that get worried and worried, especially when it's about the number of episodes with knives that we've seen in the media lately, the last weekend, the day before that and the day before that. Therefore, it is in any case positive that one will look at a machete ban. I think one could have done it even if one had voted in favour of our proposals today, and I think the suggestions we have made together with the Central Party when it applies to the customs tariff, must also be seen more closely. So it's sadly so that here we get boast and tribute for the commitment, but after all, it's not relevant for this government to vote for proposals that come from the Labour Party. I hope, therefore, that the Minister of Justice and others can be more specific when they follow up the matters we have asked for for several years now.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e2017	I just want to say first to the Council of State on the issue of data reading, where he said that it could harm the police's work if you answer whether it's in use or not: when you put the Storting's bill on access to data reading and why you needed it to fight criminal gangs and organized crime, you didn't put it forward without thinking it should be used. Giving the Storting feedback that it has been used, and having resources for it, cannot harm the police's work. The guys must be aware that you'd want to use it when you promoted it for the Storting. It's very hard to understand that we can't know if it's been used or not, whether you have resources for it, and whether you're able to implement it. I don't want to know anything about what matters or how it's been used; I just want to know if you've been able to use that legal home, because it's quite demanding, technical and resourceful, and it's important for the control of the gangs. Then there is an obvious misunderstanding in the setting regarding thorough ID control when buying and selling SIM cards. The majority write that it will be too intrusive in terms of privacy. But that is the law in force – the second paragraph of Section 2-4 of the Ecom Act states that unique identification is required. I have addressed this with Minister of Digitalisation Astrup after the disclosures in today's Business. I am very pleased with the dialogue with him, both in the New Year's Eve eighteen and here in the Questionnaire in Stortinget. I can carefully read out what the Council of Astrups has said here in the main room of the Questionnaire. I had a question where I asked: ‘The media have recently focused on the so-called mobile hijacking and sale of SIM cards to fake subscribers.’ And on the other hand, ‘Does the Council of State consider that there is a need for clearer rules on how to carry out a unique ID check and on control procedures and penalties for breaches thereof?’ The short answer from Minister of Digitalisation Astrup to the question is yes. I have never received a clearer and more positive response in Stortinget from a government council that I can remember, almost not from our own either. The Council of State adds that it has commissioned Mr Nkom, i.e. the National Communications Authority, both to assess whether the law is good enough and to assess the use of electronic identity solutions such as: BankID, MinID or Buypass ID can contribute to increased security when purchasing or porting SIM cards. It shall also assess the need for supervision and how the sanctioning system can be used in the event of future non-compliance. So I have simply made a so-called resolved proposal on the matter, which is an improvement on the proposal I have made, which is a fortification – a concentrate – of the government council that has answered me in Stortinget. This proposal, proposal No. 8 replaces proposal No. 4 from the Working Party in the setting. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to draw up clear guidelines on penalties and supervision that require compliance by mobile companies with the eco-law § 2-4, second paragraph, on the unambiguous identification of end-users in the purchase or porting of SIM cards.’ I'm addressing this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e2041	The representative Jan Boehler has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e2046	I just have to say to the representative, Mr Vågslid, that Jan Bøhler and I have been involved in the Oslo policy since before the representative, Mr Wagslid, was born. I just Googled the Year when the representative was born – I shouldn't say this, but you can find it on Google. I was at least Russian a few years before that, and Jan Bøhler and I have been in the Groruddalen and traveled around and tried to see and analyze the recrime for a very long time. I also want to commend the representative Jan Bøhler for an honest and sincere commitment to this. I must say that when I heard the representative Frölich do it so idyllically when he stood up here, I wondered a little bit: it seemed almost like a sort of awakening meeting that was now over, and that now we agreed, now we've settled up in the Groruddalen, and everything's fine. But it's not okay, it's much worse than ever – it's status. No matter how much I, Jan Bøhler and the Justice Ministers in the ‘hidden and rifles’ have done with this, there is nothing better there – it is worse! Then you have to try to look at the symptoms. When not one person up here has said that those who actually engage in repeat crime have a foreign background, you have to realize that there is something wrong with the discussion in the hall – when you cannot analyse such things and see the common features here. It's probably bad growth and certainly one thing about the other, poverty, social bias, they don't have free SFO – yes, there's probably a lot of things, but at least there's one thing that's absolutely certain, and that's that they have immigrant backgrounds. They didn't have that in the crowd 30 years ago, but then there were other ways we had to solve it, and it's solved. That's why it's possible to solve it today too, but you have to take care of what's most important, and it's the assignment that parents give to their children. It starts with integration already in high school and before that, when the children are young. I had a reading article in 2008 with ten advices for immigrant parents. It was no harder than that: speak Norwegian to the children at home, watch Norwegian children's TV, read Norwegian adventures, do not travel on long holidays to the country of origin, do not send the children to Koran School after school, release the daughters and let them be active in social environments, engage you in FAU, engage you in sports. It is possible to do so – it is on the integration side, but integration and justice are interrelated. You don't get criminalized in gang environments without actually having a reason for it -- it starts somewhere. Parents must be held responsible; parents must keep their children indoors after 1 p.m. 23 if they are 15 years of age or younger. It's not hard to say, they should be able to do that. We have a city council here in Oslo, Thorkildsen, who says you should be afraid of the police, because they're wearing uniforms while we learned that Uncle Police was wearing uniforms, and that Uncle Police was the security itself. So now you have to learn that a uniformed policeman is something you have to be afraid of. Who is teaching the children that kind of attitude? It's no wonder they get scared when people tell them to be afraid of them. The kids think it's exciting with the police. There was Jan Bøhler and I agreed that Thorkildsen's play was meaningless. We have to tackle this together, and we can solve it. I understand that we cannot vote in favour of the opposition’s proposal – everyone understands, that the policy does not work – but let us take this into account. It is the responsibility of parents, and then we have to make integration work. Set requirements for parents, they should take responsibility for their children – neither the protection of children nor anyone else, in fact the parents should.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e2059	It was the representative, Mrs. Lene Vågslid, who made me take the floor. I also get a little tired. I get tired of hearing that there is always a lack of resources in the police. So I want to inform the Storting that in 2013 there were 1,855 police officers in the Oslo police district. In 2018, it had increased to 2155. It's an increase of 300 police only in the Oslo police district. That's 16 pst. increase. The prosecution authority has been strengthened by 45 lawyers. That's an increase of 32 pst. In Eastern police districts, there has also been a sharp increase, from 979 police officers in 2013 to 1 185 police officers in 2018. There's an increase of 206 police officers, an increase of 22 pst. The number of lawyers in that district has increased by 31 pst. This government has added resources to the police in Oslo and the East police districts, and in addition, the extraordinary effort against recrime, which amounts to 50 million. NOK plus 37 million. kr. The representative Tybring-Gjedde said this was almost like a revival meeting. It may not be that far away, but I'm recording at least one thing: there's a broad consensus in this room that we're now going to run a tougher line against juvenile criminals and against gangs, and I'm very pleased with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e2068	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e2080	Then Stortinget is ready to go to the vote on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e2089	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Nils Kristen Sandtrøen on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No 2, from Geir Pollestad on behalf of the Centre Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law 12 May 1995 No 23 on soil is amended as follows: the second paragraph of Section 11 is replaced by the following: In order to avoid damage to natural and cultural landscapes or to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, the Ministry may provide evidence of innovation. The prohibition of the breeding of ants cannot be established in the periphery».
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e2146	Alternatively, vote between the adjustment and proposal No 1 from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law 12 May 1995 No 23 on soil is amended as follows: the second paragraph of Section 11 is replaced by the following: In order to avoid damage to natural and cultural landscapes or to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, the Ministry may provide evidence of innovation. An application for new cultivation of ants may only be made through a plan approved by the individual municipality. A general prohibition on the breeding of ants cannot be established in the foreseeable future». The centre party has notified subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e2320	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The central party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e2334	There appears to have been several votes wrong. So let's do the voting again.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e2346	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e2355	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Geir Pollestad on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Torgeir Knag County on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests a comprehensive revision of the Law on reindeer management and submit it to the Stortinget for treatment’. The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e2381	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to propose a modification of the reindeer management law where a bottom-up deduction is established. The goal is to protect the smallest units and increase recruitment to the industry’. The Workers' Party and the Centre have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e2405	The Socialist Left and Red have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e2421	In the course of the debate, three proposals have been put forward from Nils Kristen Sandtrøen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The size calls on the government to submit to the Stortinget, as soon as possible, a plan for climate change adaptations of agriculture. The aim is to maintain and strengthen the self-sufficiency of agricultural products in the face of climate change. The plan shall be based on the following: 1. proposals on how to use and adapt food land throughout the country to climate change in order to increase productivity and improve agronomy; 2. concrete measures to implement an extension with sufficient stocks of cereal seed and grass seed; 3. evaluation of the impact of quota and structural developments on vulnerability and preparedness in response to climate change, including how this affects the dependence on the purchase of feed and the possibilities for grazing across the country; 4. measures for enhanced Norwegian feed development based on Norwegian resources, including the possibility of using Norwegian proteins from rotation for increased productivity and good agronomy; 5. measures which may contribute to increased investments in the upgrading of watercourses and appropriate new investments in irrigation facilities with special emphasis on common facilities.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a proposal for a climate fund for agriculture using a model from the forest fund.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a plan for agricultural climate change to include measures to support Norwegian livestock and measures to conserve and develop the genetic resources of commercial plants in the context of reproduction in line with changes in climate and local production conditions.’ Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e2466	Behind the setting are the Right, Advance Party, Left and Christian People's Party. The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e2484	In the course of the debate, a whole series of proposals have been put forward, from the Liv Signe Navarsete on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government requests the setting up of a public body to explore possible alternatives to today’s EEA Agreement. All alternatives that ensure the ability to act with the EU without an equally strong obligation to implement EU legislation as under the current EEA Agreement shall be assessed. The Committee shall assess the options according to their contribution to the challenges of social dumping in the labour market and the effectiveness of the alternatives to democracy compared to the current EEA Agreement, while assessing the impact on Norwegian business. The selection shall complete its work by the end of 2020.» Red has announced support for the proposal. Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e2516	A total of eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Geir Inge Lien, on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party the proposals No 4-8, from Jan Bøhler on behalf of the Workers' Party The President will state that proposal No. 4 were drawn during the debate. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5 and 6 from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the strengthening and expansion of the youth units in the criminal justice system by several places, so that the police and the conflict councils can impose sanctions on those who break agreements on juvenile punishment.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to change the practice of child protection in order to avoid children under the age of 15 who commit repeated crimes and whose child protection cannot be achieved with the treatment of which, in some cases, they are printed for good and sent back to their home.’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e2549	There is a vote on proposal No. 7 from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to add machetes to the Arms Regulation § 9 concerning the types of knives that are prohibited from acquiring, owning and holding in Norway and to ensure that the damage to the body by knife is re-registered in the STRASAK report.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e2566	There is a vote on proposal No. Eight, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to draw up clear guidelines on penalties and supervision that require compliance by mobile companies with the eco-law § 2-4, second paragraph, on the unambiguous identification of end-users in the purchase or porting of SIM cards.’ The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e2583	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-3, from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to draw up proposals for legislation prohibiting participation in criminal gangs and their recruitment, and to promote them for the Storing so that they can be dealt with by the summer of 2020.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘During 2019, the government is asked to submit proposals for amendments to Section 79 of the Criminal Code, which provides for a higher penalty for organised crime, so that it can better target criminal gangs.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose additions to the provisions of the Criminal Procedures Act on a visitation and residence ban, so that those who commit crime in specific areas can be refused to stay in a wider area and for a significant period of time, and to assess the use of electronic control to enforce this.’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e2665	Behind the setting are the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The Greens and Reds have announced support for the vote. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e2681	President! I voted wrong! I should have voted against, but voted in favour of the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e2686	Let's fix it. The votes shall then be 55 votes against and 49 votes against for the opinion of the Committee. The Committee's position is therefore not favourable.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e2888	The President proposes that referendum case 308 be sent to the Transport and Communications Committee. The Bears of Moxnes have asked for the word.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e2895	This applies to referendum case 308. It wishes to deal with the Red Party, the Workers' Party and the Centre in accordance with point (c) of the second paragraph of Section 39 of the Stortinge Rules of Procedure. The reasons for this have been briefly stated that Telenor will terminate the maintenance of the copper network from 1 May onwards. The size must decide on our proposal before the maintenance is stopped, which will be important for many who will lose their maintenance. That is why we want to discuss the matter before 1 May.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e2900	Is there anyone else asking for the word?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e2905	The representative Bears Moxnes said that the Workers' Party is also behind this proposal, and we do. We recommend that our members vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e2910	The centre party also supports that proposal and wishes to vote for it to be dealt with urgently.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e2915	A brief explanation of vote: SV also supports that we deal with this matter quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e2920	Several have not asked for the floor for an explanation of vote. The draft representative has been requested to be dealt with as a matter of urgency. As the President sees it, there is nothing wrong with the matter being dealt with in committee in the usual way, and the President maintains his proposal for committee procedure. We are then going to vote on the procedure for the draft representative. Alternatively, between the President’s proposal that the case be dealt with under point (b) of the second paragraph of Section 39, i.e. shall be sent to the Committee and the Redt's proposal for a procedure under point (c) of the second paragraph of Article 39 of the Rules of Procedure, which shall mean urgent procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e2938	The proposal for a representative will thus be dealt with in the transport and communication committee in the usual way. Further references were made: 44. Representatives of the Government of Bengt Fasteraune, Siv Mossleth, Heidi Greni and Willfred Nordlund on a State maintenance programme for the county road network (Document 8:131 S [[309]] [[2018–2019]] 45. Representative proposal by Mr Bastholm for child-friendly urban and rural transport (Document 8:134 S [[310]] [[2018–2019]] 46. Representative of the Depositary Representative of Une Bastholm on sustainable modern freedom of movement through reduced car traffic (Document 8:136 S [[311]] [[2018–2019]] Onest. : No. 44 to 46 shall be sent to the Committee on Transport and Communications. 47. Changes in education law, public higher education law, post-secondary education law, etc. [[312]] [[2018–2019]] 48. Changes in the Law on Higher Education and the Law on Vocational Education [[313]] [[2018–2019]] 49. Representative proposal by Marit Knutsdatter Strand, Kjersti Top, Liv Signe Navarsete and Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen that the goal promise should apply to student relations (Document 8:120 S [[314]] [[2018–2019]] 50. Representative of the Landfill Representatives Freddy André Øvstegård, Mona Fagerås and Karin Andersen on the cultural school for all (Document 8:123 S [[315]] [[2018–2019]] 51. Representative proposals by Mona Fagerås, Sheida Sangtarash, Freddy André Øvstegård and Kari Elisabeth Kaski on free school food for all (Document 8:124 S [[316]] [[2018–2019]] 52. Representative proposals by Martin Henriksen, Jorod Asphjell, Torstein Tvedt Solberg, Nina Sandberg, Hadia Tajik, Arild Grande, Eigil Knutsen, Siri Gårsemyr Staalesen and Jonas Gahr Støre on a broad reform of labour skills (Document 8:129 S [[317]] [[2018–2019]] Fifty-three. Representative proposals by Martin Henriksen, Jorod Asphjell, Torstein Tvedt Solberg and Nina Sandberg for better and more effective teacher training (Document 8:130 S [[318]] [[2018–2019]] Onest. : No. 47 to 53 shall be sent to the Education and Research Committee. 54. Nordic cooperation (Report. [[319]] [[2018–2019]] St. 23 Onest. : To be sent to the Foreign and Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-11.ana.ud472e2986	Then the matters on the current map have been processed. Then it only remains to wish everyone a really good Easter and well met again until the next big meeting on Wednesday 24 April. Does anyone ask for the word? I don't think so. - The meeting's been cancelled.
