ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-22.ana.ud238e53	Honourable co-representatives! Former magnificent representative of the Nord-Trøndelag counties Arne Lyngstad has passed away, 57 years old. As a magnificent representative, the then church, education and research committee became his arena. He knew it well from before; he had been adviser to Jon Lilletun in the period 1993-1997, when Lilletun was head of the Committee. Arne Lyngstad himself was the vice-chairman of the committee in his first period. In his second period he was a member of the delegation to the Nordic Council, and in 2003 he was also head of the Norwegian delegation. It was the teacher the young man who had intended to be when he began his studies, such as: led to an award-winning main task in history in 1992. The theme was ‘Europe-debate in the Socialist International 1955–63’. This was given to the parliamentary leader of the Christian People's Party Kåre Gjønne, and he hired the young historian – and the party member – who advises on European policy in the Christian People's Party. Arne Lyngstad was elected to the Stortinget in 1997 for the Christian People's Party. It was the home-grown Nord-Trøndelag that had put him up as his first candidate. At the age of 35 he could already refer to a long list when it applied to both KrF and KrFU, as local politicians both in Verdal and Trondheim and in the county council of Nord-Trøndelag. In his work he had also had several duties, including: as head of the Norwegian Total Association for Youth, now part of Juvente. In 2001, he was affected by bone marrow cancer. There was a tough message to get for a toddler, but he was brave. He also came back to work as a major representative, and after the 2005 election, where the mandate in the Nord-Trøndelag was lost, he was once again an adviser in the Christian People's Party's Grand-Group for a short period of time. In 2006 he was appointed Director of the Diakonale Lukash Foundation, headquartered in Malvik. In this regard, he and the family moved back to the Turkish homelands. He was pleased with the work of the Law Foundation, but when the disease struck again, he had to step down and eventually accept that professional life was over. However, the exposure was strong, including: as a user representative in the decision-making process for medicinal products. Lyngstad got engaged for the party right up to the last. As late as May 5th this year, three weeks before he died, he participated in a campaign in Trondheim KrF. Arne Lyngstad will be remembered as a faithful, diligent and thorough person, as much back in the scenes as on stage. It is with anger that we have received the message that he has gone away. We remember Arne Lyngstad for his work in Stortinget and shine peace over his memory.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-22.ana.ud238e76	The representative Knut Arild Hareide, who has been licensed, has once again taken the seat. The formerly called alternate for Finnmark, Vetle Langedahl, is now taking the seat. There is an application from the Workers' Group for the granted leave of the representative Else-May Norderhus 7-24. October is amended as sick leave from 22 October until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The sales representative, Tove-Lise Torve, is called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-22.ana.ud238e129	The current Civil Ombudsman, Aage Thor Falkanger, has announced that he will resign at the turn of the year. The size must therefore choose a new civil ombudsman. The position of civil officer shall be subject to professional qualifications equivalent to those required for office as a Supreme Court judge. The Civil Ombudsman is also the head of the Civil Ombudsman's office, which currently has approx. 70 employees. The Ombudsman must therefore combine very good professional qualifications with professional business management, including good management qualities and ability to communicate clearly. The Presidency has chosen to carry out a more open process for recruiting a civil ombudsman than ever before, with regular calls and application procedures. The work was published publicly in May 2019, with the deadline for application of 1 October 2019. The call has been widely advertised. The administration has been assisted by the recruitment agency to test the market, not least in order to create an interest in such a prominent position and to motivate persons who could be involved to apply. There were four applicants for the post when the deadline had expired, and the entire candidate list has been published. The Presidency has unanimously decided to convene a municipal lawyer in Oslo, Hanne Harlem, as a new civil ombudsman for the period from 1 February 2020 to 31 December 2021. At the same time, the Presidency will propose that the office manager of the Civil Ombudsman's office who has the longest seniority, Bjørn Dæhlin, be temporarily constituted as a civil ombudsman in January 2020, until Harlem can join. Hanne Harlem was born in 1964 and took a law degree in 1990. She has worked as a lawyer at the Attorney General's Office and has been a judge in the North Trom district. She has also worked as a Chief Legal Officer of the Swedish Credit Authority and a lawyer in Norsk Hydro. Harlem was Minister of Justice in 2000–2001, Deputy Director Norsk Hydro 2001–2004 and University Director at the University of Oslo 2004–2007. During the period 2007-2011, she was director of Health South-East RHF, and had several other heavy responsibilities. From 2011 until today, Harlem has been a municipal lawyer in Oslo. Hanne Harlem will become the sixth civil ombudsman in the series since the appointment of Supreme Court judge Andreas Schei as the first civil ombudsman in December 1962. She becomes the first female civil ombudsman, and it's a pleasure that now there's a woman who's going to complain about this practice. The Presidency has noted and carefully assessed the criticisms directed at Hanne Harlem, mainly related to matters she has handled in the role of lawyer for the Municipality of Oslo. It is important to note that in these matters she has acted as a lawyer for the Municipality of Oslo, and she has then promoted the municipality's interests in matters. These aspects have been assessed in the process. The Presidency believes that there is no basis for claiming that Hanne Harlem is opposed to openness or transparency. With the candidate currently proposed, the Ombudsman’s position will be filled with a legal capacity and a highly experienced manager with considerable practical experience from the public sector. I am sure that Harlem will carry out the important role of the Civil Ombudsman in protecting citizens from injustice and helping to further develop the Civil Ombudsman as an institution and a central social actor. I recommend the vote with the proposals that have been put forward there.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-22.ana.ud238e154	The size today most likely chooses Hanne Harlem as a new civil ombudsman, and that's what Stortinget will do with SV's voice. Of course, we have registered the counter-arguments that have emerged around Hanne Harlem, both in the public debate and in that case Red has delivered to Stortinget. In short, they believe that she is not suitable as a civil ombudsman because she has undermined the civil ombudsman's work in other positions and in other types of professional and role understanding. It is really good that we have a debate on the Civil Ombudsman, precisely because it is one of the most important trusts of the Norwegian administration. It's an agent to make sure that the state does its job of ensuring the rights of the population in a good way. The requirement that we have the best person is very good. So the debate Red has gone, I really appreciate it. It is probably also quite new in Norwegian history. SV has asked the presidency to ensure that the objections that have come from Red have been carefully assessed, and we have just heard from the President himself that those things have been taken up in a good way. I perceive that the criticism of Hanne Harlem as a civil ombudsman is linked to her practice as a lawyer, but in other positions and in other types of role-playing. When she is about to enter — most likely — into the role of civil ombudsman, it must be expected that in that position she understands the new role she should have, that she understands that the role of civil ombudsman is completely different, makes completely different demands than the role of, for example, the role of civil ombudsman. a Minister of Justice or a municipal lawyer — as we do, for example. has seen that the current Civil Ombudsman, Falkanger, has done, who came from a position as a Supreme Court judge but was able to exercise the role of Civil Ombudsman and understand and interpret that role in an excellent way. Another example is National Auditor Per-Kristian Foss, who after a long time has worked on the Storting and in government has entered the role of National Auditor, has changed its understanding and exercises it in an excellent way. I would like to say that we are living in a rather troubled time, both in Europe and in Norway. Human rights are challenged in many countries. We have e.g. In Poland, both Parliament and the government are challenging the independence of the courts. In France, we have had long periods of exceptional status. In a number of European countries, it is desirable to reduce the obligations of the Convention on Human Rights imposed on themselves by the nation states; to reduce these obligations so that the nation state can take better control of itself. This movement — we can call it a kind of nationalist movement — is driven by right-wing populism and nationalism in a number of countries in Europe and is a challenging trend. We also have similar features in Norway, and when I mention this, it is because it affects the understanding of the political context into which the new civil ombudsman is going to go. For example, the examples from Norway are: the desire of this government to extend the government's possibilities to derogate from existing laws, i.e. those of the type of power legislation, which are currently being dealt with in the government apparatus. We have also seen proposals from the government to amend the Civil Ombudsman Act, thus restricting the right of access to the Civil Ombudsman, which the current Civil Ombudsman has been very brave and clearly argued against. So we have to have this as a back ground when the Stortinge selects today a new civil ombudsman, for this political context, both in Norway and in Europe, presents significant challenges for the new civil ombudsman. It also gives some commitments and expectations to the new civil ombudsman who would not have been so obvious if, for example. had been ten or fifteen years ago. It is absolutely essential that the new civil ombudsman perceives his role as a watchdog and as an inspector of the state's ability to safeguard the fundamental rights of the people. It is absolutely crucial, and the Stortinget – and I personally – will be very careful that the Civil Ombudsman performs this function as a watchdog, and will be open and direct with him if this is not done in a good enough way. We must demand that the new civil ombudsman be independent and not be influenced by pressures or expectations, either from collapse or government or by other actors. The requirement for independence is essential for the Civil Ombudsman to be able to do his job in a good way. Then we must also demand that the Civil Ombudsman himself make demands on the Stortinget on how the Civil Ombudsman's own reports should be treated. I have to say that part of the Civil Ombudsman's report to Stortinget has been treated a bit as a kind of obligation. To a small extent, the Storting – this hall – has gone into the substance of the things that the Civil Ombudsman has reported to us. In general, Stortinget has had some kind of mailbox approach to this, a passive approach, and sent the observations and recommendations of the Civil Ombudsman quite directly back to the government apparatus, but without taking this into account in a proper way. In the summer, we received a report from the Civil Ombudsman on suspicion of illegal isolation in Norwegian prisons. That report is being discussed in Stortinget now. The new civil ombudsman will then take over the civil ombudsman's process around this, and it is to be expected that the new civil ombudsman will demand that the Storting actively and in a good way go into this work. With these words SV will vote for Hanne Harlem as a civil ombudsman, but at the same time challenge her that she must act on the basis of the sense of role that I have mentioned, the sense of role that is different from that of a Minister of Justice or a lawyer, but also ensure the requirements of integrity and independence. We in Stortinget will take care of that too. Finally, we will challenge her that she is active and ongoing towards Stortinget, so that the reports she delivers to Stortinget are actively treated in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-22.ana.ud238e184	Anyone who considers himself to be the victim of any injustice or error by the public administration may lodge a complaint with the Civil Ombudsman. ‘Ombudsman works to improve public authorities’, in his own words. The newspaper calls the Civil Ombudsman the People's Lawyer. When the Stortinget is now to appoint the Ombudsman – or ombudswoman – for the administration, we shall point out the person who is to uphold the individual’s rights in relation to the administration. He or she shall perform his or her duties independently and independently of the Stortinget, but the Stortinget has adopted the Civil Ombudsman’s Act and shall elect in line with that Ombudsman and lay down general instructions for the Ombudsman’s activities. Unfortunately, the current government has created uncertainty about the framework for the Civil Ombudsman's work. On 4 July 2018, the Ministry of Justice and Civil Protection sent out a proposal for amendments to the Public Health and Civil Protection Act. The Government proposed to legislate the possibility of keeping the calendars of the Prime Minister and the Government and all other public calendars secret, so that the public and the press are deprived of the right of access. This has repeatedly been criticised by the current Civil Ombudsman in strong order. At the same time, the Government proposed to prevent the Civil Ombudsman from accessing documents from government conferences, which are the meetings where government policy is determined. The hearing of the Civil Ombudsman indicates that this change may prevent the Civil Ombudsman from exercising his control function. These legislative proposals were originally to have been sent to the Stortinget in April of this year for treatment, but in August Minister of Justice Jøran Kallmyr answered the following questions from Red: ‘The hearing round, however, showed that there were strong and fundamental contradictions to parts of the proposal. No final decision has therefore been taken as to whether and in what form the bill is to be promoted for the Stortinget.’ Some of the hindrances to these legislative changes proposed by the government are that officials have taken care of themselves and refused to bow to the objections of the Civil Ombudsman – and that is a problem. To quote Tron Strand and Vegard Venli, from the Press Public Committee, in the Evening Post earlier this month: ‘When the role of the Civil Ombudsman in Norway is undermined, without causing significant reactions from the Stortinget, is it perhaps not so strange that someone who has himself been involved in undermining the Ombudsman’s role is the only qualified person who will apply for the job?’ The representatives of the Press Press Public Service wrote that the nominated applicant, Hanne Harlem, has contributed to undermining the position. They highlight, among other things: her participation in a hearing in the Judicial Committee as a municipal lawyer, criticising the Ombudsman’s understanding of the law that the public could require transparency of the Oslo City Council notes. When she was a Minister of Justice, she refused to send documents so that the Civil Ombudsman could investigate the legitimacy of secrecy. This led to criticism from the State Department and the deletion from the Ministry of Justice's own law department. This criticism and scepticism of the presidency's suspension is shared by the Norwegian Press Association. In the chair position, Dagbladet writes the following: ‘We need a civil ombudsman who is professionally strong, unreasoning and who is not too close to political institutions and government.’ Harlem said to the evening post that some of these examples were tasks she performed as a municipal lawyer: "It wasn't me personally, but a job from my employer," she says. This history writing supports the presidency in its setting. Then I would recommend listening to the recording of the open hearing in the Justice Committee of Storting on 12 May 2015, where Hanne Harlem says, "Now I am taking a moment off the City Attorney-Hate." She then argues – based on her personal experience from politics – against the transparency of the urban council notes for which the then civil ombudsman worked. So it's wrong and on the border of rewriting history to say that these statements came into effect by Harlem's professional practice as a lawyer. She has rejected that personally and most clearly herself in the Storting's open hearing. It is not a motion of censure for Mr Harlem from Red who is on the table. It is a proposal for trust in the position of civil ombudsman – a proposal to redefine the office and to constitute an Ombudsman from the Civil Ombudsman’s office until further notice. Anyone who cares about the confidence of the Civil Ombudsman as an official should be able to see that it is problematic to hire a controversial candidate in the absence of other assessed applicants. Therefore, I hope that Stortinget will be involved in expanding the process and thus also help to strengthen the legitimacy of the firm. At the same time, I would like to ask the government to clarify its position and officially draw the proposal on restrictions of the Public Service Act and the Civil Ombudsman Act, so that the office hopefully becomes relevant for more applicants, including those who have not tried to cut the wing earlier, but on the contrary jobs for even more transparency and publicity. With that, I'll take up Red's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-22.ana.ud238e225	The representative Bears Moxnes has taken up the proposal he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-22.ana.ud238e244	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-22.ana.ud238e263	In the history of Norway, access to renewable energy has long been its great advantage. Based on pure and cheap hydropower, small towns around the district of Norway have received large industry, produced on the world's purest energy. In the same way, we Northmen are proud of our beautiful, clean and pristine nature. Outdoor life and the proximity of nature are part of the Norwegian people's society, and the fastest growing industry in Norway is travel life, based on nature. What I'm looking at in this interpellation is wind power expansion, wind power expansion is about to create a mistrust and a loss of trust in central governance that is very serious. At the same time, we want more pure energy. The national framework plan for wind power was to be a conflict mitigation measure, but there was an eye-opener — the country around it. So almost all the states were also involved in the plan. The frame plan and area selection were analyses at an entirely superior level, and the selected areas had a total area of 29,000 km2. For several months now, there has been great insecurity, where local people fear that they will be overrun. Government handling of the framework plan and the process: What's the deal now when the framework plan is scraped? The opposition of the people is increasing. Has the government been listening and learning? Has the government taken inwards why thousands of Norwegian citizens feel abject, rage and deep despair at what they experience as state-approved violation of nature and man, and that fundamental laws to protect man, animals and nature are overlooked and ignored? The Council of State has said that the concession terms should be reviewed and that applications should be suspended until clarifications on the concession system have been provided. But little is said about the new criterion to enter, and what the weighting of the different criteria will be. Little has been said about this for all concessions that are granted but not started. A little has been said about the freezing decision also applies to the extension and renewal of concessions. But the Council of State has said that where there is great resistance, there shall be no concession given. If this is true, all applications where there is a great deal of resistance should now be rejected, instead of being put on hold, and possibly rescanned, for new criteria. At least the government would have made it clear that one has actually listened to the people's uprising, to everyone who has said no. Now most people are feeling that the government has bought a breathing room, and one more with a lack of confidence and anxiety about an actual listener in practice. If the Council of State has been quoted directly in the NRC, there is still cause for concern, for there he says that he ‘sees a need to do something about the concession system in order to make a good system even better to prevent conflicts that we have seen around some expansions of wind power’. A "good system even better". There is little evidence that the Council of State has taken on board the massive criticism of people who point out that they feel runaway and powerless. There has been a marked change in people's view of wind power, especially in the last six months. The strong resistance and criticism of various wind power projects show that a good local anchoring of potential projects is both correct and important. There has been a raging development within windmills, on size and land use. Large aberrations and changes have been accepted from original concession requests in many places. The people feel cheated when in their time it was said yes to lampposts and they get a 'Eiffelt tower' in their mountain home. This requires a review of the legislation relating to the establishment of wind power with a special focus on local anchoring and influence. This review should also be supplemented by a review of the local effects of the installations. It is important for the national energy debate that the energy needs of the future be served. This is where more knowledge is needed. As I said, I'm glad the framework plan was scrapped. But now we have to get a common plan where the wind, the water and the net are put in a context. Nature must also have a self-value. For what matters when the framework plan is scrapped is whether a refurbished bit-by-bit extension is achieved and still accepts that the wind power areas are selected by the builder, who agrees with the landowners long before the concession application is submitted. When one in addition knows that several extensions are being made in violation of municipal plans, with major deviations and changes of intentions, and that construction works are being put into operation before appeals are completed – yes, then this does not testify to good public control or to a good system. In rural and island communities around Norway, the development of wind power is in the process of creating a mistrust and loss of trust. And how are people to be trusted that they will be heard, if the freezing decision that is taken has many exceptions? In 2020 and 2021, a lot of concessions went out. These concessions are given on a completely different basis of knowledge and under other circumstances and should be terminated in my view when the concession period expires. At least these concessions must not be passed on automatically and expanded under old concession conditions. Is that what the Council of State agreed on? The UN Natural Panel has published clear warnings that land use change is the biggest threat to biodiversity on earth, a greater threat than climate change. And it's not just that the windmills are bigger, the planning around each turbine tower is now about half a football field, and then there's a way to get there and a place to set up. There's a lot of very visible natural interference we're talking about. For example, the area applied for for wind power along the Sognefjord is 43 km2. It's over 5,000 football courses. That's huge area. And what's one thing about local ringing? Increase the number of rents. The expansion of wind power at the Guleslette in Bremen provided an increase of 170 million net rentals to the inhabitants of the network company. kr. And most have come to realize that the tax on property has been put under pressure by this government, as is what is included in the tax base of production equipment. People feel that one gets little left to the community to set nature at risk, and then the resistance increases. It is unisonable that a non-inferiority should be built in pristine nature. I agree, but I also want to strike a blow for those who have put their nature at the disposal of the community before, for example. in the case of hydroelectric power expansion, where the natural decay of the network is in the process of coming back, the wound in nature has begun to grow. Here nature is even more vulnerable. Here, too, the requirements for 'enough' need to be met by the inhabitants. The consequences of wind power expansion must be visible to the population. There was probably an eye-opener in many ways to the national framework plan. Because there's been so much change in the population's view of wind power only in the last six months. It is obvious that the areas of intervention and proposed areas are enormous sizes. And there are many paradoxes. With wind power expansion, a useful excavator can be used in ants, while a farmer cannot grow a single new square metre of ants. It is now emitted by both. Should a required total of CO 2 be taken into account in all deployments? Why are the tax and depreciation rules so very different for water and wind? The working party has long called for a holistic, comprehensive plan in which wind, water and network are put in context. Will the Council of State take up this challenge?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-22.ana.ud238e320	Let me first make it clear that I am taking the exposure around wind power in the greatest seriousness. In the light of the consultation of the proposal on the national framework for wind power, the government has recently announced that we will not implement a national framework with the designated areas for new wind power. Then, as the representative Heggo refers to, it also announced changes in the concession treatment, to which I come back. The wind power that is now being developed is the result of a misguided policy. For two decades, different governments and magnifications have facilitated the development of wind power. I would like to remind you that as early as 2005 in the Soria Moria Declaration, the Red-Green Government proposed to introduce a mandatory green electricity licence market. The Government of Stoltenberg II proposed in 2011 a single electricity licence market with Sweden. The Electric Certificate System became the key instrument to support the deployment of renewable energy. Thus, the wish of the big business has been for more wind power to be developed in Norway than the power market provided. Technology development and falling costs have now improved the profitability of wind power. The concessions now realised are granted both by the government of the day and by the previous government. I have great respect for local democracy, and with a few very few exceptions in the form of extensions of the wind power plant at Kvåøy in Troms and a small part of a wind power concession in Kvinesdal, which affects the Lvgal municipality, this government has not granted concessions to wind turbines where the host municipality has opposed. Good local anchoring has, in practice, been essential for the concession of wind turbines. Nearly all wind power projects now being built are therefore based on concessions supported by the host municipalities. On the other hand, we have said no to several projects for which the municipalities have been in favour. The question whether wind power should be allowed in an area is determined in the concession process itself. These are open and democratic processes in which municipalities and other views on a project are heard. If a builder has been granted a concession, this cannot be withdrawn because the municipality has subsequently changed its mind. Wind power involves significant investments where the significant costs are tied up to contracts before construction starts. Investors, contractors and concessionaires must therefore be able to rely on the decisions taken. Wind power is subject to a comprehensive concession treatment that includes impact assessments under the Planning and Building Act, and assessment of natural diversity, as required by the Nature Diversity Act. In addition, projects are assessed in line with national guidelines on noise and shadow maps, international indigenous rights and regional and municipal plans. In many cases, we have said no to wind power, including: in the case of hubro, predatory bird, wild reindeer, landscapes, Sami reindeer, etc. Of all the plans for wind power NVE have been included, there is a clear overweight of projects that have not been granted a concession for various reasons. I recognise that it is a challenge when it goes very long from a project to a concession until it is actually built. Furthermore, once wind power has become profitable without aid and there are no longer deadlines in the electricity certification system to take into account, there is no reason for concessions to be unrealised for a long time. Therefore, the government has notified tightening up the practice of extending construction deadlines. The time from a project to its construction also means that technology development is taking place as the project matures. In particular, there has been a marked increase in turbine size in recent years. This means that some people think it is being built a different project than the one that was granted a concession. Predictability is important here. Both the NVE and the Ministry of Oil and Energy have taken action to ensure that post-concession investigations are adequately investigated, published and evaluated. Further adjustment and tightening will also be considered here. At the same time, I would like to stress that the possibility of using the latest technology on the wind power being built has brought great socio-economic gains in terms of higher production and higher value creation. The height of the turbines is typically drawn out as a negative. I think we should have respect for this. Modern turbines are really high, but at the same time it is important to be aware that higher turbines also provide fewer turbines with correspondingly fewer roads and land operations. Of course, I'm also affected by that commitment and the people's uprising that's out there. So my answer to the interpellant is that through this process of national framework, we have gained more knowledge about the process of developing wind power. We have also conducted a broad consultation and we listen to the recordings. And now we're going to look at an already good concession system in order to make it even better. So I would also like to remind the interpellant that we have put an end to the electrical certification system. This debate is about the balance between using Norwegian nature and at the same time developing profitable renewable energy that we need. There are real and sometimes difficult balances around wind power. That is why a public debate on wind power is important, but we must all contribute to keeping the debate at a factual and enlightened level.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-22.ana.ud238e352	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but we have to be careful so it's not just beautiful words when we're standing here and talking about listening to people and what they mean. In fact, that has to be done. I asked the state councils what was their response to thousands of Norwegian citizens who are still troubled and feel that the state decisions are going heavily on health, quality of life, bouncy and trust. Of course, that question also applies to given concessions. There, I don't see a concrete response from the Council of State. I will be more precise: Based on the increasing resistance to wind power today, to which the Council of State says he will listen, I ask for an in-depth analysis of what is actually happening in practice with the applications currently being made. Is it only the host municipalities that you should listen to, and only those that apply to? And is there now a ‘go’ on the applications where the local people have said yes? And with regard to granted concessions, how is the frames of amended intentions and deviations being framed? Or, in another way, what changes in deviations can one accept without triggering a new concessional treatment and becoming new hearings? Would you like to view this as a whole, or are you going to have given concessions given concessions, which are now going to have a good one? Is the renewal of concessions and extension now subject to the same consistency and new concession terms with updated knowledge? I believe that the freezing decision is still only valid for applications under the framework plan, but I hope that the Council of State can elaborate a little more. I also wonder how the Storting is involved in the preparation, possibly confirmation, of these changed concession conditions, and when it happens. I have to re-examine my question about what happens to outgoing concessions, because they're given under completely different circumstances and on a completely different basis of knowledge. They're 25 years old. It helps little if one on the one hand stops the treatment because of popular resistance, while one on the other side simultaneously renews and expands other applications.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-22.ana.ud238e365	The representative refers to beautiful words. I refer to concrete action in relation to the fact that we have just had a broad consultation on the national framework, which also provides a knowledge base on the impact of wind power. It was published, sent out at a wide consultation where we asked for recordings. In fact, I believe that the government should have honor, because we're doing what we've told us to do. We listened to the recordings that came. This means that we don't go further with the 13 designated areas. It also makes us work on changing the concession system. I'm pointing out that we haven't dealt with concessions, neither old nor new, since April 1. We have also announced that before we have concluded what changes will come to the concession system, we are not going to accept new projects. I think that's wise, because the story – where we stand today – around wind power, shows that we need to take some action, among other things. with the concession system. Concessions that have been granted have been granted. There is a liability when someone has obtained a right. It's about predictability. It's about cleanliness. But it's not like that, if you've got a right, that you can do whatever you want. If you have received a concession for a few years back and are to start building now, you must have a valid detailed plan. If there is a deviation in the knowledge from the concession and until the detailed plan was dealt with, that is the tool we have just to base on the exact knowledge we have and are going to have at the time of construction. Therefore, changes have also been made, both from the NVE and from the Ministry of Oil and Energy, in a number of concessions through regular treatment and complaint treatment, just because new knowledge has been acquired. In conclusion, I just note that Heggø, who represents the Workers' Party, is also in favour of developing wind power, and after that article, questions can be asked about whether there has been a change in political opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-22.ana.ud238e376	People are concerned about their natural areas. They're worried about the major interventions we've seen from some wind power development lately. I can see that. Nature is our common basis of life. Our lives depend on a healthy and functioning nature with intact ecosystems. This was also one of the reasons why the Stortinget asked a plan for wind power development a few years ago. You wanted to get away from the planless expansion, where each project was viewed separately, and then into an overall approach. NVE's proposal, which came earlier this year, met with great resistance, and that's not so nice. Many of the areas in which they thought it was possible to imagine wind power are vulnerable natural areas or important areas for the Norwegian indigenous population, together. The government's response to this was last week to scrape the national framework for wind power. I think that's a bad answer. What we get then is a still planless degradation, a bit-by-bit degradation of important natural areas. About half of Norwegian energy consumption is fossil. We need more renewable energy and investment in energy saving if we are to resolve the climate crisis. If we're to do this without destroying valuable nature, we need a complete plan, not a bit-by-bit reduction, to which the government is now adding up. At the same time as the government announced that they were scrapping the national wind power framework, they announced that they would look at the concession rules and concession procedures. It's high time. We have seen several times that there have been very poor mappings of the natural values in advance of both wind and hydropower expansions. In several issues relating to the development of hydropower, environmental and outdoor organisations have provided additional investigations that have revealed a far greater natural diversity in the areas where it was planned to be developed than the developers were aware of from the reports they had ordered. The NVE has discovered similar situations earlier in a number of small-scale cases. I therefore wonder whether, in the context of the review of the concession procedures and the legislation, the Council of State will ensure that stricter requirements are imposed on the nature mapping to be carried out before a decision is taken and whether the Council of State and the Government will come to Stortinget with their proposal for new concession legislation. In addition, I would ask the Council of State to ensure that no civil engineering start-up is allowed until all the required natural sciences have been carried out, assessed and taken into account, and that all possible complaints have been processed. In conclusion, I would also ask the Council of State to consider, in the context of its review of the concession procedures, a regulation on the extent to which wind power development is being dealt with in the Stortinget and not just by the government. We have this kind of legislation on the hydropower side. Major hydropower expansions are being treated by Stortinget, not only by the government, and it is a weakness that we have not been able to do so on the wind power side – for the time being.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-22.ana.ud238e395	I would first like to congratulate the peoples around the country who have stood up to destructive wind power, with an important stage win. The government had not drawn the national framework for wind power last week without the broad resistance to nature being built down bit by bit, as we now see around the country. But scrapping the framework plan is not enough. In many of the areas where there is great local resistance, concessions have already been granted. The old concessions have several common features that make it necessary to re-treat them. In many cases insufficient environmental considerations were taken into account. Many have changed what is to be built, compared to what was outlined in the original application, and nature conservation has been inadequate. The Hitra and Südmark mountains have found Hubro, a endangered species, along the way in the construction process. We also know more about the environmental impact of wind turbines in use. Only on Smøla are 100 oats killed by windmills. In Germany, 1 200 tons of insects die each year in the meeting with windmills. In Egersund, we find an example that what was built is not what they applied for – the area of intervention has become three times larger than what was stated in the application. In many of the projects, we know that the windmills being built are larger than what was laid out during the assessments in advance. And bigger wind turbines change the soundscape, roads need to get bigger to carry larger parts, and the risk of ice throws in winter is increasing. And now we have to look at the whole thing. Until now, wind turbines have been granted a concession without seeing the total intervention in the context. As a result, vulnerable nature is built down bit by bit, and it is a major threat to biodiversity. The UN Panel on Nature presented in May a report showing how habitat losses are one of the main causes of up to one million plant and animal species being threatened. Wind power plants in Norway are largely built in the unspoiled nature. An average of 800 metres of road is required for each wind turbine. Roads require explosions and other interventions to be large enough to carry parts to wind turbines well over 100 metres. Many of the concessions must in any case be re-examined, because their development is delayed in relation to what was contained in the application. A permit does not last forever, but in the case of wind farms, the State behaves like this. As the environmental impacts of wind turbines have become more well-known, local resistance has naturally increased, and it is perceived as a clear democratic violation when new knowledge does not matter. Red believes that the local government is important and that facilities that have the majority of the population against them locally should therefore not be built. It is also legally doubtful that postponement shall not require any reassessment. It says, among other things: research professor Ole Kristian Fauchald, who is among Norway's leading environmental lawyers. He says the following: «The term of the concession is a condition of the concession and a deferral thereof is a conversion of the concession. This means that an application for an extension of the time limit should initially follow the same rules of procedure as an ordinary application. On this basis, it becomes unsustainable to claim that such a decision can be based on ‘the basis of knowledge at the time of the decision’. In the case of a decision to extend the time limit, the knowledge base must be updated’. In climate and environmental issues, the Red and the Wind Resistance have two thoughts in their heads at once. We cannot save the climate in a way that at the same time destroys the nature and ecosystems that we depend on for clean air, clean water and for the food we eat. That is why practice needs to be tightened up, and we need to change the way Storting is dealt with what has been so far granted by concessions to wind turbines.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-22.ana.ud238e423	I want to start by saying that the Workers' Party has a holistic plan where wind, water and networks are inserted into this whole plan and seen in context, but the government has voted it down. Nor has the Labour Party been afraid of new knowledge acquisitions and their use, and we have always said that the development must be locally anchored. How is the concession system modified? We didn't get a single answer to that. What do you want to focus on? Still no answer. What we've been told is that new projects are not subject to concession treatment, so it must mean that even where there has been a local yes in this round, there will be no new projects. What are the differences between the concession given and the detailed plan acceptable? Nor has the state council said anything about it. What about the power tax selection? The government was not able to put a whole plan here either. What is needed to upgrade renewable hydropower? As I said, the property tax has been put under pressure by this government. The machine tax has been deducted from the hydropower, where some municipalities have been compensated by only 18 pst. What happens to the machine tax on wind power? What is it going to be local again? Why is there really such a difference between depreciation rules and tax rules on water and wind? It's not answered either. The choice of taxes that the government would reduce would precisely look at the tax rules that could prevent the potential of upgrading and water power recovery. Instead, they were freed from the concession laws in this selection, from the social contract, which a whole industry agrees is that nothing prevents either upgrading or repair. On the contrary, there is a need to ensure local involvement of those who provide their nature to consult the community. Nor does wind pay rent taxes or natural resource taxes, and unlike any other industry, which has 20 years of depreciation, there are 5 years of depreciation for wind. Only the depreciation policy is 2 to 3 øre per kilowatt-hour. It has been a short but good debate. I look forward to continuing the debate later.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-22.ana.ud238e440	The representative Heggø said that it has been ‘a short but good debate’. It has at least been short, and then the debate has also been a bit jumpy. I'm going to try to answer some of the questions that came. The scrapping of the national framework: what the government has said is that we do not go ahead with what was one of the proposals contained in the national framework, namely to identify areas, which were a proposal from the NVE – the 13 areas. We're not going to go on with that. But the job that's done gives us a knowledge base, which we definitely take with us: we know more about wind power, we know more about the impact of wind power according to national frameworks than we did before. There is, of course, knowledge that is taken into account when it comes to making a system more robust, in relation to the concession system that has been part of the debate here. And what are you going to do with the concession system? I believe I showed it in my main post: we need to tighten deadlines, we need to clarify things – and yes, we also need to look at the impact assessment requirements, which are set in relation to the different concessions that are being treated. Finally, I would like to remind you of what I said in my main post. It has been a wild policy to expand wind power in Norway, from different governments. It was the Stoltenberg government that introduced the electricity certificates, just to get wind power building started. And look up to the criticism that comes, I want to remind you that both Frøya and Haram, which are two concessions there is a lot of attention around, are concessions that are not given by this government, but by the previous government. What we're doing is we're stopping up, we're taking seriously the feedback we're giving, among other things. has been given after having invited to debate, just to do something about the system that was also underpinned when Fröya and Haram received their concessions from the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-22.ana.ud238e451	The debate on substance is closed. 3 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-22.ana.ud238e469	In 2015, the government presented a pharmaceutical notification, one of the main objectives of which was to facilitate research and innovation. The government has as its objective the strengthening of health research and improved access for patients to tried and tested treatment in Norway. Clinical studies can provide us with up-to-date knowledge of the effects of new diagnostics and new treatments. Knowledge from clinical treatment research is in support of the prioritisation of medicinal products and in deciding on the treatment methods to be offered to patients. However, clinical studies are also important in order to gain knowledge of treatment modalities that should be phased out because they are less effective or more expensive than what is acceptable in relation to efficacy. The drug notification pointed to a decrease in the number of clinical studies in Norway after the 2000s. The number of medicinal products studies has been significantly reduced and the number of patients involved in clinical trials has also been reduced. In 2003, there were about 16 000 patients involved in industrially funded pharmaceutical studies, while in 2013 there were 6 700. In the years up to 2018, there is also no increase in requested clinical studies at the State Medicines Agency. A total of 121 studies were applied for, 72 of which were from industry. In comparison, the total number was 179 in 2007, 126 of which were industrial studies. While the number of clinical studies is greatly reduced in Norway, other European countries and the United States have increased the number of industrially funded studies by 30 pst. There is a high potential for increased clinical research in all Nordic countries if the similarity between countries is better exploited and the Nordic region is seen as a single patient base. However, cooperation in clinical research across Nordic countries requires ethical recognition in all participating countries individually. It will be unnecessarily time-consuming and difficult for researchers to find proper guidance, information and application points when several countries participate. We made proposals in the Nordic Council on a common Nordic ethical committee for the approval of clinical studies. A joint Nordic Council supported our proposal this spring. The aim is to facilitate the initiation of clinical studies between Nordic countries. I am pleased to hear that the Council of Ministers has already set up a working group to examine the possibilities and implement measures for resource reduction and simplification in the ethical approval of Nordic research projects, especially since the examination of our proposal was so delayed in the Nordic Council. The Nordic countries have a large enough patient base to be attractive for clinical studies. They have good infrastructures for research and access to a high number of health records and biobanks. Nordic research cooperation with increasing the number of clinical studies and improved accessibility of health records can contribute to a significant increase in the quality of treatment provision. The Minister for Health has stated that he wants clinical studies to be a natural part of the provision of treatment to the individual patient and has arranged for the participation of patients in clinical studies to be part of the results-based funding system for research in regional health establishments. That's good, because you need good incentives to get the clinical research up. In order to be able to see the Nordic region as a single patient population, the participation of patients in clinical studies across the Nordic countries must also be facilitated. This is particularly important in the case of rare diseases. However, even as treatment becomes more targeted at specific disease variants, larger patient populations are required to ensure adequate recruitment to a study at a study site. Reference to patients across national borders to studies in other Nordic countries is also being made to some extent today, but it requires the creation of study-specific agreements, which are time-consuming and unpredictable. This is mainly done in very special cases, such as testing the gene therapy Kymriah, where children were referred to Norway from eight European countries to participate in a clinical study of advanced cell and gene therapy for the treatment of a particular form of leukaemia. A framework or a guarantee scheme that ensures that the study site does not incur exceptional costs related to intensive or stretching transport by reference to study patients between Nordic countries will enable patients to have better access to trial treatment and would also be more attractive as a country for the award of clinical studies, as there can be arguments for better delivery compared to participation in the study. My questions to the Council of State are therefore: How will the Council of State follow up the decision of the Nordic Council on a common Nordic ethical committee? How will the Council of State stimulate more international clinical studies in Norway and the Nordic countries? And will the Council of State facilitate referral of study patients between Nordic countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-22.ana.ud238e497	It is an important question for the representative Synnes Emblemsvåg to address, and I am also pleased with the initiative taken by the representative in the Nordic Council. I'll come back to how we follow up the proposal, but I'll first put the question into a slightly larger frame. The Nordic countries have very good health and quality records. We have biobanks, and we have a good and consistent infrastructure for epidemiological research and clinical treatment. And – not least – there is a great willingness among the population to participate in clinical studies. At the same time, rapid medical development makes it necessary for us now to cooperate more closely across trade unions and national borders. Often, there is a need to recruit patients for research from several Nordic countries, and infrastructure and professional environments are built that are so specialised that we have to share both competence and tasks. The Ministry of Health and Welfare is doing a lot of work to strengthen, streamline and simplify the opportunities for researchers in the Nordic region to cooperate — both on research and analysis of health data and clinical studies. When Norway chaired the Nordic Council of Ministers in 2017, we started a three-year project to follow up Bo Könberg's report on the future of Nordic health cooperation. This project has three main tasks: the first is to look at the possibilities and take action to reduce resource use and simplify ethical approval of Nordic research projects. The second task is to explore a Nordic solution to make health data more available for research. And the third task is to further develop Nordic cooperation on clinical studies and personalised medicine through the Nordic Trial Alliance. To begin with, the Ministry of Health and Welfare has commissioned NordForsk to further develop the Nordic Trial Alliance and set up this network against personalised medicine. When Stortinget granted 5 million. SEK for children's cancer research in 2018, we used these funds as the starting point for creating a fissure layer. With funding from this project, the Kreftforeningen, NordForsk and the Research Council, the Nordic Trial Alliance was able to allocate 30 million. kr for paediatric cancer studies in personalised medicine. Three projects are now being launched – thanks to this fissure layer. In addition to research, projects shall also provide knowledge of the challenges and opportunities of carrying out such studies. Funds have also been allocated to nine strategic workshops and networking activities. The aim is to strengthen clinical research cooperation in the Nordic region, with a focus on precisely personalised medicine. So to work on health data: in order to be able to research independently of borders, all researchers who need it must have access to data, and they must be able to make the data available to each other, not by exporting data across borders, but by giving researchers access to analysis of data across the Nordic countries. The Ministry of Health and Welfare has commissioned NordForsk to investigate systems to achieve this. Expert groups have been appointed to look at metadata, technical solutions and legislation. There is a great deal of interest in this work in the research communities and in the pharmaceutical industry organisations. This work also has positive ring-fenced the fact that those working on the Health Analysis Platform are now in contact with colleagues working on similar solutions in the other Nordic countries. In the field of research into artificial intelligence and other areas of digitisation too, good cooperation systems can be of good help. In the follow-up we must therefore involve other parts of Nordic cooperation. So to what is the concrete question of the representative Synnes Emblemsvåg – ethical approval: Nordic research cooperation requires ethical approval of the research projects. This concerns both research on health data and multicentre clinical studies. Projects involving several Nordic countries require ethical assessment and approval in each country. Today, these processes may take up to several years, and it is difficult for researchers in need of ethical approval from several countries to find proper guidance, information and application points. There is therefore a need to streamline, coordinate and simplify the authorisation processes. The report on this in connection with Norway’s Presidency project is a good starting point for moving forward. The report contains six proposals for simplifying application procedures and processing. The proposals do not challenge EU legislation. So far we've only got the other countries to establish a Nordic information portal, but we've managed to secure funding to develop and operate the portal. NordForsk has been associated with experts from the Nordic countries' Medical Research Ethics Committees. These experts shall assist in the work. The Nordic Council has given us good help by proposing to establish a joint Nordic Committee on Ethical Recognition of Clinical Studies. This proposal has been submitted to the Nordic Member States, and they have taken note of the final response from the Nordic Council. I am aware that EU legislation on clinical drug testing can put obstacles in the way of the proposal. However, the proposals in the Nordic Presidency project on Nordic cooperation in ethics recognition do not challenge EU legislation. I therefore ask the Nordic Council of Ministers to step up efforts to implement the proposals of the Ethical Approval Procedures Report. If all Nordic countries show a willingness to intensify their work, we will be well on the way to achieving the goal of the Nordic Council's proposal. There is a lot of good work going on through this project. In parallel, national strategies for personalised medicine have been developed in several Nordic countries. From the Norwegian side, we believe that further Nordic cooperation on clinical studies and health data is important in order to contribute to the faster deployment of personalised medicine in the Nordic region. We want to establish more permanent structures for Nordic cooperation on clinical studies. This autumn, the Ministry of Health and Welfare has started work on an action plan for clinical studies. It shall follow the health industry notification to be addressed in this room at the end of November. The action plan shall include, inter alia: identify obstacles for patients to participate in clinical studies in other Nordic countries, not only regulatory barriers but also administrative and economic barriers. We will also examine what is needed to increase cross-border research cooperation through networks and infrastructure. The Nordic Prime Ministers have initiated a new vision for Nordic cooperation. The Nordic region will become the most sustainable and integrated region in the world. And the three strategic priorities of a green Nordic, a competitive Nordic and a socially sustainable Nordic region involve closer cooperation on research and knowledge sharing. By facilitating better Nordic cooperation on health research and clinical studies, we believe that we also contribute to achieving these overall objectives, which the Nordic Prime Ministers have agreed on.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-22.ana.ud238e541	Thank you to the Council of State for a good answer. I know that the Council of State has been concerned about getting more clinical research across the Nordic countries, and I hope that all Nordic Health Ministers will be equally concerned about it. I am pleased that the Council of State is following up on the work of the Health Analysis Platform and is working to give researchers access to analysing health data across the Nordic countries. The Health Analysis Platform will provide faster and better access to the different health registers, and increased research could provide better healthcare in the long term. On behalf of the Ministry of Health and Welfare, the six university hospitals established NorCRIN, Norwegian Clinical Research Infrastructures Network, which is a national research infrastructure with the main aim of strengthening and simplifying cooperation within all categories of clinical studies in Norway and is part of the European network ECRIN. The aim is to increase the number of clinical studies, in particular national multicentre studies, as well as to increase the quality and implementation rate of clinical studies. Cooperation will further facilitate more international studies, preferably in the Nordic countries and Europe. The network includes both the node for early phase clinical studies, which could increase the likelihood that we will receive several Phase II and Phase III studies funded by industry, as well as a node for clinical studies of children. NorCRIN has been funded through the Research Council as a national research infrastructure from 2015 to 2020. In recent years, considerable efforts have been made to build good research environments and to facilitate clinical research. Nevertheless, there does not appear to be any visible increase in the number of drug studies requested for the State Medicines Agency. At the same time, the feedback from the pharmaceutical industry is that it is difficult to get involved with part of regional health businesses, and there are also different practices between health businesses in Norway regarding the ethical authorisation of the individual studies. What obstacles do the Council of State see in bringing up the number of clinical studies in Norway? Is it the case that other countries have become more attractive, or have we set aside too badly? In 2019, regional health businesses were commissioned to cooperate with industry and to explore how NorCRIN can be more closely linked to industry through a partnership model. Does the Council of State think that it could promote the number of clinical studies in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-22.ana.ud238e552	The representative addresses important issues in his intervention, including the general need to increase the number of clinical studies in Norway and the Nordic countries. The development that the representative describes, about a reduction in clinical studies, is not a strange phenomenon, but is something that we unfortunately encounter in all the Nordic countries. That, I believe, reinforces the importance of the initiative taken by the representative in the Nordic Council and the work now being done through the Nordic countries. This is probably part of the development towards a combination of more personalized medicine, which requires a larger population base to obtain good clinical studies. Some other countries have made much simpler arrangements for industry in order to have clinical studies carried out quickly, for the clinical studies need to be conducted more quickly today than was the case in the past. We are now working on a separate action plan to increase the number of clinical studies in Norway, but the representative is also concerned that we have already given a commission to further develop NorCRIN for a ‘one-stop shop’ for clinical studies. This shall be established as a partnership model between NorCRIN and industry, similar to the development of Danish NEXT cooperation. We have to take advantage of the advantage that hospitals in Norway have one owner and that it is subject to one system. If we can ensure that the international pharmaceutical industry can also get one way in to establish clinical studies with Norwegian patients, it will be a great advantage for patients, of course, but it could also contribute to nutrient development in Norway and provide hospitals with an economic relief in the treatment of patients. So here's the big advantage for all actors. Ethical recognition and the time it takes will be one of the barriers for good studies across the Nordic countries. We have now been working on and funded the establishment of a common portal, so that at least one should have good information about where to apply and what conditions under which to apply. It'll be able to reduce time somewhat. We need more pressure to move on. We have experienced different interests between the Nordic countries. Norway is and will be a driver in this area. But of course it will also be of great value if the representative gets his colleagues from the other Nordic countries to promote similar interpellations and debates in their parliaments, so that the Nordic governments feel a pressure from their parliaments to achieve the same objective.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-22.ana.ud238e567	The government wants patients to be offered more precise and targeted diagnostics and treatment, among other things. by facilitating the development of personalised medicine, as mentioned by the Council of State in its introduction. Health and care services shall facilitate the transfer of results from both clinical research and basic medical research to diagnostic and patient treatment. It requires effort, investment and political will. However, the transition to personalised medicine challenges health and care services as well as business. Linking the patient’s medical history, clinical findings, lifestyle factors and environmental impact with data from biological marker analysis provides new opportunities, but also new challenges, for data processing. In particular, it requires new working methods and processes for the development, testing, authorisation and marketing of new medicinal products. The Council of State stated in its statement that EU legislation could be challenging. Medical product testing is covered by new EU legislation, which harmonises the authorisation process, but this legislation does not cover the approval of the register data used with such studies. Would it be possible to prevent linking of registry data in the Nordic region to the drug testing if the privacy protection – of course – was correctly managed? Today’s clinical studies are largely based on randomised studies in large patient groups. However, personalised medicine requires more individual adaptation. This also challenges business models in industry, where the coverage of costly development pathways for new treatments is based on large patient groups. The challenges are many, and it will initially be demanding for healthcare companies to introduce personalised medicine. Does the Council of State believe that the lack of commitment to clinical studies could threaten the optimal implementation of personalised medicine in health businesses?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-22.ana.ud238e580	As I understood in my reply, in the case of decisions taken by the Nordic Council, there may be some challenges with EU legislation. But I think it is good that the Nordic Council is more ambitious than the legislation provides for today. The points raised in Bo Könberg’s report, which have been Norway’s wish to get through in Nordic cooperation in this area, will significantly improve the ability to conduct clinical studies across the Nordic countries. These points are not challenged by EU legislation but will be feasible within EU legislation. I hope that the initiative taken by the representative will also help the other Nordic countries to go beyond what has been possible. In reality, the creation of this portal is one of the most concrete things we get. Through the various working groups we now have in these areas, we feel that there is an even stronger political will to get better solutions. On the issue of the introduction of personalised medicine in Norwegian hospitals, it is clear that there are also a number of issues that will affect privacy and the way in which we have organised our registers in Norway. It's one of the questions we're now working on, following up on the assignments I've given both the Health Directorate and the Health Regions, to facilitate more personalised medicine in Norway. I do not exclude that we also need to have a discussion if it is necessary to make changes to legislation and registry systems in Norway in order to benefit more fully from the benefit of Norwegian registers, but also in reality to be able to offer Norwegian citizens the same medical treatment as they will experience in other countries, through more personalised medicine. In particular, it is important both to achieve better outcomes of treatment and to avoid over-treatment and mistreatment of patients, by the fact that one today in many cases knows too little about the treatment to be given to the individual patient. In this way, the decision in the decision-making forum yesterday was a joyous news, including one. has put in place a new personalised medicine tool to ensure that women with breast cancer are not exposed to a treatment that only harms without helping.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-22.ana.ud238e591	The debate on substance is closed. 4 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-22.ana.ud238e607	No one has asked for the floor. That being the case, the number of cases is the number of cases. 1–5 on today’s map fully debated. The store is now taking a break, and according to the announced agenda it will be voting at 0 p.m. 15th
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-22.ana.ud238e634	Then Stortinget is ready to go to the vote on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-22.ana.ud238e646	In the course of the debate, Mr Moxnes has put forward a proposal on behalf of Mr Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘1. The position of the Stortinget Ombudsman for the administration is re-published. 2nd@item: inlistbox Head of Office Bjørn Dæhlin shall be constituted as the Ombudsman of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg for the administration from 1 January 2020 until the new Ombudsman for the administration accedes.’;» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-22.ana.ud238e665	Many suggest that several have voted incorrectly. Then we take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-22.ana.ud238e677	The Presidency had set the Storting to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-22.ana.ud238e690	It is voted on at paragraph 1 of the recommendation. The Greens and Reds have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-22.ana.ud238e704	It is voted on in paragraph 2 of the recommendation. Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-22.ana.ud238e737	In Case No: 3 and 4 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-22.ana.ud238e746	Case No. 5 is the second time the law has been dealt with and applies to Act 1. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-22.ana.ud238e791	Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? – Nobody does, and the meeting is thus cancelled.
