ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e67	Honourable co-representatives! On 17 February 2019, former depositor Ragnar Christiansen from Lower Eiker, 96 years old, died. After two periods as the first alternate, he was elected for the Workers' Party and Buskerud for five periods, from 1958 to 1977. In the course of time at Stortinget, he was, among other things, Member of the Military Committee and the Industry Committee, but he spent most of his time in the Financial Committee — the most recent time as Chairman of the Committee. Twice Christiansen was called to be the Council of State, first as Minister of Finance of Trygve Bratteli's Government from 1971 to 1972, then as Minister of Transport from 1976 to 1978 in Odvar Nordli's Government. After finishing the big thing, the road went back to Buskerud, where he was the councillor for two years and followed the next eight. Ragnar Christiansen was the railwayman from Lower Eiker who dedicated his life to the service of the party and the public. The list of public duties he took on is impressively long. And from his first meeting in Lower Eiker Municipal Government in 1945, until he left as chairman of the State's Korn Business in 1992, it went closer to half a century. As a 17-year-old, Christiansen started a job as a bid at the NSB Drammen district, and he went to railway school two years later. With a small exception for a shorter study stay in the United States in 1957, this remained his highest formal education. At the same time, he never took lightly on the demand for knowledge, if one were to achieve important trust in a good way. Ragnar Christiansen is then also described as one of Buskerud's leading political heavyweights in modern times. A striking social actor outside the party remembers from younger years his impression of Christiansen, and described him as follows: «He was one of the trusted in Ap. No electrical charisma, but weight, dignity, integrity. A glance at him, and we realized that the land was not in danger." There was a man of solid imitation who walked away this winter. We bring peace to Ragnar Christiansen's memory.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e93	The President of the Swedish Parliament, Andreas Norlén, is on an official visit to Norway. He is here today at the gallery, and it is a great pleasure to welcome the President and his delegation to the Parliament. [[Applause from the centre]] Sweden marks its 100th anniversary as democracy this year, while the Stortinget marks the anniversary of the voting rights. On behalf of Stortinget I would like to congratulate you on the anniversary. I hope that the guests have had a good start on their stay here in Oslo, and that the visit will contribute to an even closer cooperation between Norway and Sweden, and between our two parliaments. The representative Anette Trettebergstien, who has been on leave, has once again taken the seat. They called the alternates, for Hordaland County Sigurd Hille, and for Oppland County Hilde Kristin Holtesmo, now takes the seat. An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Central Party Group for the representative of Liv Signe Navarsete as from 5 June and until further notice. This application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The representative of the commodity, Steinar Ness, is proposed to meet during the period of leave. – It is also considered to be adopted. Steinar Ness is present and will take the seat. The Group of the Progressive Alliance has been informed that the licence granted to the representative Sivert Bjørnstad will be amended to run from 6 June to 10 June. The Vara representative, Lill Harriet Sandaune, will meet on the 6th and 7th of June. – This message is taken into account. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting, if necessary, will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e152	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e161	Today, when the Storting deals with a strengthening of the provisions of the Working Environment Act on alerts, many people have been waiting for a long time. It is a cross-political desire to strengthen the protection of alerts, to clarify what alerts are and are not, and to clarify what obligations an employer has towards alerts. Unfortunately, we have too many examples of workers who have taken the pressure of warning about critical circumstances being exposed to various forms of retaliation and who have had a major impact on the individual. Unfortunately, some of the most ugly examples that have come to the attention of the public have come from the public sector. The so-called Monika case is a well-known example. Experiences include: from that case has led to the police Joint Union having warned its members against notifying, but unfortunately it is not unique. The hope is that the Stortinget can today adopt a new and better regulation that can alert the security they need. A single committee clearly states that alerts to critical circumstances are important and desirable, both for the businesses concerned and for society as a whole. The size has dealt with the provisions on alerts on several occasions over the last 15 years. It will lead too far to go through all of them here and now, but without taking the mouth to the full, it can well be said that the alert determinations have gradually become clearer and the protection of alerts is progressively stronger – at least on paper – although there has always been some disagreement as to how far you should and should go. Every time alerts have been on the agenda, we have received many, in part heartbreaking, requests from alerts who have either not been listened to or have been subjected to various forms of retaliation. However, after a unanimous decision in Stortinget, there is now a thorough investigation by the so-called Alert Committee, with proposals for stronger provisions, based on a need that has been duly documented through Norwegian and international research. On the one hand, the Alert Committee may indicate that about half of the alerts have actually received positive feedback from management and colleagues, but at the same time the sample shows that the proportion of people who have experienced a penalty increase in recent years. Penalties referred to are penalties, removal of duties, exclusion from the working community, bullying, service charges or dismissal. Too many have lost their career opportunities, many have become directly ill or have experienced such strong reactions that they have seen no other option than to quit the job. The Committee is behind many of the government's proposals, based on the Committee's investigation. The consideration of a good opinion climate is now included in the purpose of the Work Environment Act. The warning provisions are extended to more than what we normally think of as workers — pupils, patients, persons undergoing training and participants in labour market measures when carrying out work in establishments covered by the law. The content of ‘critical conditions’ and ‘responsible procedure’ are laid down by law. These have been terms that have been difficult to interpret. Warnings are limited to statements that relate only to the employee’s own employment — also a clarification that can make it easier for the individual to know if one is actually a warning. New rules are proposed on the employer’s obligation to examine the warning adequately and within a reasonable period of time, to ensure that the alert has a sound working environment and, if necessary, to prevent retaliation. What reproduction is is described in the legal text with a broad understanding. The person who suffers financial loss in return is entitled to compensation, based on objective liability, and a description of the employer's proceedings when there is an alert is included in the provision for alert procedures. But then separates the position and opposition layers. The opposition wants to go beyond the government at some important points. We see increased level of organisation as a strength, even when it comes to alerting. The right to an anonymous alert should be clarified and the media source protection strengthened. Rents are subject to the alerting provisions, but it should be stated in clear terms that they apply to all stages of a contract chain. We want our own alert agent, who has this as his main task. We want freedom of expression to be made clear, we want a separate alert law in addition to the work environment law, and last but not least: we also need to guarantee the rights of those to whom it is notified and those to whom it may be notified and who are not even alerts. I am addressing the minority proposals that the Labour Party and other parties are behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e180	The representative Lise Christoffersen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e185	Let me first thank the case rapporteur for the usual good and thorough work. The possibility of warning about critical issues at work is a central right that is important for both the enterprises involved, the workers and society at large. Therefore, conditions must be optimised to enable critical conditions to be identified and closed. But alerting can be a significant personal burden. That is why we need to ensure both a constructive opinion climate and adequate protection for those who say it. Employees present in the establishment may be more likely to gain a critical knowledge of matters than can audit and supervision. Compared to other countries, more workers in Norway are alerting, and the risk of retaliation is lower. Nevertheless, research shows that one in four do not tell about critical conditions they know, either because they fear represals, or because they do not know how to alert them. This does not just affect those directly affected. As a society, we lose sight of the fact that critical conditions are not revealed, whether in private businesses or in the public sector, as in hospitals or in the police. Because even though Oslo Economics has calculated that alerting saves society half to twelve billion dollars a year, alerts are about more than economic losses. It can be about life and health, and it concerns us all. That's why we also have strict rules to prevent represals and retaliation. At the same time, we should also be aware that alerts that do not prove to be factually critical may be a burden both to the alert and to the employer. On the right, the proposals we are now in favour of, in a good way, balance the consideration of both alerts and the one on which they are notified. Several have proposed their own alerts, and in the hearing and later we have been presented for examples back in time when an ombudsman could have had a function. In the meantime, however, the Labour Inspectorate has built up considerable skills in warning and is already carrying out a number of guidance activities in this area. Therefore, the right considers this to be carried out by the Labour Inspectorate and would rather strengthen the work there than create a new representative which would lead to difficult border crossings between the bodies and overlapping tasks. The government is following up the proposal to set up a low-threshold offer for issues related to a breach of the retaliation ban on alerts, not in the form of a new alert item, but by building on an existing note. This will serve the purpose of establishing a low-threshold offer for this type of issue and will also be a better use of professional and financial resources. The Government proposes to legislate on the content of the three key concepts of the Alert Code: «critical conditions», «responsible procedure» and «responsibility». The concepts have been criticised for being difficult to understand and therefore create uncertainty for both alerts and businesses. By legislating the content of these concepts, it is easier to understand the conditions under which the alert rules apply, how to proceed with alerts and what is contained in the return ban. In clarifying the concept of ‘critical conditions’, it is also proposed to limit the rules on alerts against opinions relating only to the employee’s own employment. This means that the alert rules will not normally apply to staff conflicts and the implementation of the work contract. These clarifications provide a clearer and more predictable regulatory framework, which strengthens the situation of alerts and makes it easier for businesses to handle alerts in a good way. The prohibition of meeting the respondent is one of the basic elements of the alert legislation. In order to identify the importance of the opinion climate in the establishment in order to be able to notify without a risk of reproducibility, it is proposed to include alerts in the purpose determination of the Work Environment Act. In addition, it is proposed that the warning provisions be extended to certain groups which are not workers in the sense of the law. Today's warning regulation does not have rules that say anything about the obligations of the employer when the enterprise receives a critical warning. It is therefore proposed that the employer should be obliged, first of all, to ensure that the alert is properly examined within a reasonable period of time. In addition, the employer shall have a special duty to ensure that the person who has notified has a fully sound working environment and, if necessary, to provide measures to prevent retaliation against alerts. If, however, the alert is returned, the alert is now entitled to claim compensation for his financial loss, irrespective of the employer's fault. Thus, in such cases, the basis of liability is similar to that of claims for replacement. The Norwegian model is based on the confidence and security of the worker. The right to alert on critical issues at work contributes to both trust and security. That is why it is so important that we now develop today's rules and improve them, and we are pleased that an overall committee is behind the desire to strengthen the alert regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e213	We often talk about how to get more people to work, how to stimulate more people to work longer, but also how to better facilitate the establishment of new jobs. Of course, it is important, but it is also important that the workplaces we already have work well and that they take care of both employees, employers and society's interests. Unfortunately, it's not always like that. It has shown us this presentation and the debate prior to the discussion of this matter. For some, conditions in the workplace are so demanding that things go well, and this can result in long-term or, in the worst case, outbursts from the labour market. Bad psychosocial conditions, understatement and theft, tax evasion and corruption, violations of ethical guidelines, etc. may have major consequences if they are allowed to be hidden. Therefore, we are very pleased that it is a co-ordinated expansion that says today that it is important to ensure that such conditions can be more easily detected, and that both the notifying and the alert are taken care of in time to follow up on such matters. In the basic material of this case we are dealing with today, we can read that there are annual warnings of between 50,000 and 160 000 critical facts. In addition, we know that about half of those who experience such critical conditions never announce. Based on the highest estimate, some 300,000 critical conditions are experienced in the workplace. It's a high number. Not all alerts are really critical, either, but many are and may have major consequences for the parties to which they are subject. The proposition we have for treatment today is a follow-up to a broad and good review of the status and improvement potential of NOU 2018: 6. In the proposal, the government proposes many important measures. I want to focus on some of them: the inclusion of a good opinion climate in the purpose paragraph of the Working Environment Act; extension of the alert rules to include elephants, protected and service providers, patients, persons undergoing training and participants in labour market measures; the content of critical matters and the defence procedure is legally established; new rules on employer obligations will be introduced, including: preventing retaliation against alerts description of the reproducibility in the legal text the introduction of an objective restitution liability; the creation of a low-threshold offer in such cases at the Dispute Settlement Topic; strengthening the guidance tasks of the Labour Inspectorate; The Progress Party is also pleased that the intentions behind the NOU’s proposal are reflected. The value of the alert is large. We are now even better prepared for more people to notify and for the alert to be followed up in a good manner for the benefit of all parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e257	I would first like to thank case rapporteur Lise Christoffersen for a very thorough job and a good presentation of the case, and I would like to join in what she said on matters where the Workers' Party and the Centre are united. It is important to further develop the Alert Institute in the Health and Safety at Work Act. Notifications are an important part of a trust-based society. It helps to address illegalities and to correct the unculture of the organisation that creates a poor working environment and thus poor results. There has been a lot of attention and warnings, not least in the public sector. This brings me to the point that the most important thing that needs to be put in place before it comes to warning is an organisational culture, an emphasis on organisation, culture and management, i.e. to establish a collection of common issues in the working class. That's what's most important, that's what's everyday; ensuring open, honest processes, making sure that the people who do the job have responsibility and authority – just to establish a good organisational culture. Then there will be little need for warning. Warnings occur when the organisational culture is too poor, and when I see warnings that go on organisation, culture and management – questions about it – I think there is a symptom that there is something more that is fundamentally wrong. What's interesting about this case is that when we had a hearing, there was a very different understanding of the reality of the situation we're facing. There was very different understanding of reality in the question of the need for better warning rules. The trade unions, with Unio at the head, were very clear that, among other things. had to have an alert, and there is no trade union that has been in tougher weather in many alert cases than those associated with the Union. On the other hand, it was interesting to experience what was said by the Norwegian Council Forum in the municipalities, and what was said by the employers' association Specter. There wasn't a similar understanding that this was a problem, and that there was a need for a different culture, a different attitude, to what was the basic problem. As I said, Unio was clearly in favour of an alert, and it has, among other things, His basis in that the Police Joint Union advises against, as Lise Christoffersen said, his members to warn now. In the case of state hospital employees, we also have many examples of warning cases that I sadly look up in personnel matters. It's a turn from a public problem, a public challenge, to a personal challenge. There are many fates that there is such a behaviour in our hospital management, and there is the employers' association Spekter central. It might explain a little bit why they don't take it so thoroughly that at least the Center Party wants to do it further. Why an alert agent, for whom the Senter Party is in favour? Well, because it's such a big problem that one here has to put in a new organization to solve the question. The Labour Inspectorate could be an alternative, but they have too much responsibility for resources already today, and they will have to build up their own establishment to implement it, so that there is at least a reorganization. Furthermore, the Labour Inspectorate has a supervisory role and, as several of the employee organisations have said, it may mean that one comes into a double role, for what is essential in the case of an alert agent, is that it is initially neutral in the case and assists the parties in furthering the case and also in practice out what matters are not, objectively, alerting matters, and in what cases there is a reason for it to be an alert case. Therefore, the Centre Party is a strong supporter of an alert agent. In this case, of course, the warning provisions must also include posted workers, i.e. that more are to be covered by the Working Environment Act, the Centre Party and SV have made a proposal to amend the first paragraph of Section 1-7 of the Working Environment Act, the definition of posted workers, where we say that workers ‘who work for a period of up to 30 days in a country other than that to which the employment is normally linked’ are to be covered by the alert provisions. I'm addressing the proposal from the Center Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e278	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e283	I also want to use the opportunity to thank the case manager for a good work on the matter. SV has come to a greater agreement with the Workers' Party when we are dealing with this matter now than when we are dealing with the theme the previous time. It's a pleasure. In recent years, we have had several incidents of alerting — and with the difficult media issue for those who have been involved. It is in their place that this matter is now coming to Stortinget, so that we can further improve the legislation on the theme. There is reason to believe that there are many issues that are characterised as alerts and that are perceived as very difficult, but that do not reach in the media. The government, after a unanimous decision in Stortinget, has dropped an alert selection, and their setting has mainly led to the issue we are dealing with today. The government has chosen to take on board to a certain extent what the alert selection recommends, but does not act on those points that cost money, which would really have been of great importance, namely a separate alert and a separate alert item. In SV we wholeheartedly support the need to strengthen the protection of alerts, and to a large extent we follow the alert selection in its entirety. I must say I'm somewhat surprised that the government does so little the same, all the time it was asked for by a consolation magnification. In the earring that we had on this matter, I bit my mark in several things. What I noticed most was the representative of the Editors' Association, Arne Jensen, who was very critical of this proposition. He mentioned the clarity of the fact that a co-pilot alert selection recommends that a work be started with a separate alert law, without the government at all mentioning it in the proposition. In addition to this, he pointed out that the matter at all has boiled down to some rather small changes that have been proposed. It goes in the right direction, as he says, but it's so small that it almost doesn't go in any direction. We in SV can tell us a few with Arne Jensen. We have bigger ambitions than what seems to be agreed today. We have several suggestions that we would like to see adopted. Together with the Labour Party and the Center Party, we have many suggestions, including: a proposal for an own alert ban and a separate alert law. In addition to this, we have made a loose proposal today. The reason for this is that sometimes it might be a little bit out of line with work for a smaller game, and so we can get a little bit behind. The loose proposal we have put forward today is about the creation of a separate warning panel, which is also in line with the warning committee's recommendations. With that I take up SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e300	The representative of Solfrid Lerbreck has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e305	Thanks to the case spokesperson for coming from work. In 2015, police officer Robin Schaefer published a book in which he told his warning story. A child had died a few years ago. The matter was disposed of as a probable suicide. Schaefer encountered errors in the investigation and reported an error. He only met silence, the lead wouldn't take the matter up. On the contrary, Schaefer was exposed to illegal reprisals, even though he was loyal and warned defensive, which in turn led to Schaefer being ill. When, in June of the same year, the lawyer firm Wiersholm presented a report on the handling of the alert by Hordaland Police District, it was found that no one in the police district could rule on alerts. This in itself suggests that the rules, the knowledge of them and the warnings were generally too poor. The left, by the representative who at the time sat on the Labour and Social Committee of the Left, Sveinung Rotevatern, called for the creation of a separate unit in the Labour Inspectorate responsible for the alerts, which Left had also proposed in the Storting both in 2008 and 2010. It was necessary to strengthen the legal security of the alerts and ensure that people dared to alert. Of course, society has everything to say that people say from – and dare to say from – when mistakes happen. Sometimes it can even be about life and death. In 2016, the breakthrough came. The Left, Right and the Advance Party propose setting up a wide-ranging group of experts to review the whole of today's legislation and make proposals on how to strengthen alert protection. Today - finally - the follow-up will come. Now we agree that there should be a separate unit in the Labour Inspectorate to guide people involved in alerting matters. I note that some people are disappointed that this task is not being added to an own order. The argument is quite possible to understand and have an humble hold of, but how to organize, and what one calls the institute, is not the most important thing, but to ensure that the alert threshold is lower and safer. The Labour Inspectorate has used up a lot of competence in the field in recent years. Putting the responsibility here will be an effective and unbureaucratic way of ensuring a strengthened alert protection, in combination with the fact that matters can be dealt with in the future under the heading, and that we clarify the legislation. As Schaefer-saka showed, it is entirely in its place that the prohibition of retaliation is clarified and exemplified. There is a lack of knowledge about the alert rules for both alerts and employers. For this reason, it is also very positive that important changes such as ‘critical circumstances’, ‘responsible procedure’ and ‘reimbursement’ are legalised, and not least clarified and exemplified. The changes we now make in the law related to alerts will make the law more accessible and understandable to most people, in itself important to arrest and strengthen the alert institute. Employers often have the power to define alerts. Therefore, I am also very satisfied that the care obligations are now being strengthened, including. by providing the employer with the responsibility for the prevention of retaliation, if necessary. The emergence of more requirements for warning procedures will, in the next round, also raise awareness of a good warning culture at the workplace. The government has done a good job of proposing modernisation and simplification of a law that is fundamental to ensuring transparency, security and good practices at work in the country. It has taken a while to come here we are today, but the legislation we will adopt later today, is unquestionably good and will last over time. And if a completely unexpected error occurs in it, the left will always be on the alert institution's barricades.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e331	The government wants more people who observe unethical and critical conditions at work to dare to say so. It is important both for the businesses involved and for society. In order to make alerts safer and simpler, the government has presented proposals for a number of changes to the alert rules in the Working Environment Act, based on the attitude of the alert committee. It is of great importance to have legislation to ensure the protection of workers who are alerting. And we have. Reports show that there are many alerts and that it is largely safe to alert in Norway. Although there's a lot that's good, there's still room for improvement. We know that many people refuse to notify about critical circumstances, because they're afraid of retaliation, or maybe they don't know how to proceed. The regulatory framework should be clear and easy to understand, both for potential alerts and for businesses. We propose to follow up the committee's proposal to clarify the most central concepts of the law: «critical conditions», «responsible procedure» and «responsibility». Responding to alerts quickly and at the lowest possible level will contribute to better, simpler and less costly alert processes. A new rule is proposed on the ‘employment obligation’ of the employer, which obliges the employer to examine the warning within a reasonable time and obligation to ensure that the person who has notified has a fully sound working environment. It is also proposed that the warning procedures should describe the employer's handling of an alert. And it is proposed to strengthen the situation of alerts by introducing a rule on objective liability for financial loss in the event of a breach of the prohibition of retaliation. I am pleased that an overall committee is essentially finishing up on the government's legislative amendments. The government agrees with the sample that both alerts and employers will often need guidance in an alerting process. However, we believe that the most appropriate thing is not to set up a new alert to meet this need. The Labour Inspectorate has built up considerable expertise in alerting and already carries out extensive guidance activities. The government believes it would be best to continue the work of the Labour Inspectorate rather than create a new public body. It is also important to remember that what was in the sample’s proposal was not an agent with decision-making powers, but an agent with whom advice and guidance could be sought, not an agent who carried the case further. The majority of alerts samples consider it appropriate to establish a low threshold for reproducibility issues due to alerts. I agree, but I think it would be a better solution to build on an existing denominator rather than to establish a new one. We will investigate such a solution with a view to a separate consultation of this already until the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e350	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e355	Thanks for the answer. I have a question about the degree of organisation of work. Do the Council of State agree that a high level of organisation is a strength in ensuring a serious working life, and in this respect also important in order to ensure a good and safe warning environment at the workplace?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e360	The short answer to that question is yes. It is important to have a high level of organisation in Norway, for many different reasons. Strong, representative organisations are also important for the legitimacy of the decisions we take in a model that is based on cooperation between employers, workers and the authorities. There is also a background for government setting up a working group with the social partners, because we want to see if there are actions, other initiatives or other that can help increase the level of organisation. Then it is important to remember that the level of organisation in Norway is still relatively high. We're going to be happy for that, but of course we're concerned that it's going to increase further.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e367	Thanks for the answer. But now it's also the way that the government recognises the unorganized working life so strongly that it's reflected in the government statement, both the one that's going on now and the one that's before. The Council of State itself referred here to a working group set up between the parties. That working group was well set up precisely because in January 2018 the Stortinget decided – against the Right, the Progress Party and the Left’s votes – that the government should promote a matter for the Stortinget with proposals that contribute to increasing the level of organisation. So it's probably with a little hold-up pen the sample works, probably. But my question is when the council will come to Stortinget with such a case. After all, it has been almost 16 months since that decision was taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e372	We live in a country with freedom of organization. I think it's important to also respect those who don't want to organize, but that doesn't mean you're not interested in organizing as much as possible. We believe it is important with a high level of organisation, and it is not in any way with the pen that this council invited the parties to a working group to look at the level of organisation. On the contrary, I believe that this is important. The working group has just been set up. Now it's going to be allowed to work at ease for a few months, and then we'll see if there's any new initiatives or suggestions on how to increase the level of organisation. But I would like to say again that it is also the responsibility of the organisations to make themselves relevant to potential members, and I must remind you that one of the main reasons why you have not signed up is that you have never been asked, and that is the responsibility of the organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e379	I have another question about a subject on which the Council of State was involved in its statement, namely the question of alerts. Now, the Council of State has chosen to add those tasks to the Labour Inspectorate, but we know that the Labour Inspectorate already has little resources, perhaps too little to carry out all the tasks they have in terms of social dumping and the crime of working life. For example, on a question from the Labour Party representative, the Council of State has answered that the Labour Inspectorate is now looking to follow up on the clean-up sector, a sector where we know that there are many unprofessional actors. So I wonder if the Council of State will at some later review a separate alert agent, if it turns out that the Labour Inspectorate still has problems in filling all its important tasks?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e384	Several representatives in this room are often concerned with the views of the Labour Inspectorate on matters that are out for consultation. In this case, the Labour Inspectorate and the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman have warned against setting up their own alerts, including: because you fear that responsibility will be powdered. I believe that is also important objections to take with me. We have been committed to facilitating the provision of a good warning code, to receive good advice and guidance when you want to alert, and we believe that the Labour Inspectorate, with the strengthening of supervision over the last few years, has, among other things, been given. warning, will be a good place to build on. Then it is not right that the Labour Inspectorate has weakened his resources. On the contrary, the Labour Inspectorate has significantly increased its resources, including: in the case of labour-related crime, and that is because this government is committed to combating just unprofessional social actors.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e391	It's very demanding to alert, it's very serious and it has great consequences, and it's therefore important to have a good process. It is important to have security for both parties, both for the alert and for the alert. As the Council of State had in mind, it is an important question who should follow this up, the Council of State used the words ‘in an alerting process’. The government's options are the Labour Inspectorate, which has far too little resources. They can't, as it is already today, do their job in their core areas. And there are conflicts of interest here, so it's of the important employee organisations considered a bad alternative. In its proposal, the Notification Committee, which investigated this, was clear that they wanted an alert, and it was to assist with advice and guidance. That's why my question is, isn't that exactly what's needed, to have advice and guidance, and wouldn't an alert officer be able to fill that role adequately?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e398	Yes, it is possible to argue both for and against having an agent, there are good arguments for an agent and there are arguments that speak against an agent. I see that quite clearly. There have also been objections to the establishment of an agent, including: by the Labour Inspectorate and by the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman, but also by other consultative bodies. We think it's important to build on what we already have. It would be more effective, and it would also be faster than now building a completely new representative, who really does not want any particular function other than what the Labour Inspectorate is already doing today. It is not true that the Labour Inspectorate has too little resources today. The Labour Inspectorate has been given considerable resources, and it is also seen that the Labour Inspectorate is able to do a good job and a better job than before when it comes to, among other things. unlocking unprofessional actors from the labour market, and I think that is important. This has been an important priority for this government, and we see that this effort also produces good results.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e405	What we see in many warning cases is that the alert is being seized, that it is the alert being examined, not the alert. The Council of State says that you should immediately examine the alert, and that is correct, but instead it is the alert being examined. Of course, for guidance on the review – in this case – it is part of the different professional supervision. So if it's the working environment, it's the Labour Inspectorate, and if it's financial crime, it's the Financial Supervisory Authority, etc. But the alert should really be forgotten at the moment when the alert is given, because then it is the warning matter to be examined. And when that does not happen, there is a need for the alert to have an agent for the alert situation, which explicitly protects the alert. Does the Council not see that there is a difference between the requirements of the alert and the examination to be carried out in the case?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e413	There are different stages in an alerting process, and as I have also said before, it is quite possible to argue for an agent. We believe that an agent as proposed by the sample might not give us anything other than what we would already have through the Labour Inspectorate's warning unit. I also notice that hearing bodies such as, among other things, The Labour Inspectorate himself, but also the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman, is concerned that an agent can pulverise that responsibility, and I believe that this is also a major argument against it. In recent years, this government has made several proposals – and adopted them here in Stortinget – that reinforce the needs of alerts, which clarify the legislation and which incorporate more into the alert provisions. All in all, we believe that the legislative proposals we have made will significantly strengthen the alerts, but it is also important, because we just want it to be safe and good to notify.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e420	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e427	Now that we're in June, we're also in the middle of the season for the youth's first meeting with the world of work. Summer jobs are a concept many young people associate with more money in the savings account and to get up early in the morning entirely by themselves. But summer work is also an arena to take advantage of inexperienced youth. The fact that we have strict and detailed rules in the Norwegian model to ensure workers' rights is a good thing, but the complexity of the scope of rules, rights and obligations makes it easy to go wild. For more young people I know, including myself, it was at all important to be able to get a summer job so important that securing the job was what came first. And precisely because the competition for youth jobs can be hard and the will for work so great, young people become an easy-to-use group of workers. And we know that it happens. Through the fantastic initiative LO's summer patrol, LO discovers a wide range of serious and less serious examples of this. In addition to its outreach activities, in the summer months of 2018, the LO’s summer patrol received 670 telephones from young people who had unresponsive experiences in their meeting with the labour market. The number of telephones from young people in Snapchat says something about the scope. On the other hand, research by Oslo Economics estimates that the total number of workers experiencing critical conditions is between 100 000 and 320 000. The same research estimates that about half of these alerts about it, and every fourth that alerts, experience negative consequences of their warning. Of course, this also affects young people. When one in four alerts experience negative consequences, the experience is that as ordinary workers we have to make a choice about the benefits versus the danger of alerting, if necessary. In my view, it is crystal clear that we have a great job ahead of us in countering the exploitation of youth in the workplace. One of the measures I am glad that we in the Workers' Party are promoting on this occasion is a national, independent alert agent. Such an agent will not be bound by other tasks, and can thus work to receive and guide questions of warning in the workplace. At the same time, its role in prevention will be crucial. By providing advice, support and assistance to alerts in specific individual cases, such a representative may prevent others from falling outside the labour force and may contribute to making it safer for workers of all ages and occupations to alert when necessary. There is every reason to be positive about the creation of such an agent. Therefore, it is also regrettable that the government parties do not see the benefit of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e436	For SV, it is important that the warning provisions actually work. Everyone agrees that alerts are important. Where no warning is possible, organisations rot. The alert must be safe, but unfortunately it is not the alert today. When we discussed this earlier in Stortinget, I said that we have to evaluate these provisions, and that is something that can be improved, that has to be done. I am pleased with the changes the government has proposed. They're good, they're good, but the main problem remains. The main problem is that when it is announced, it is the alert that is largely subject to scrutiny, and the same supervision that needs to be based on in the professional questions about the alert case – i.e. whether there have been any errors, whether what is announced is correct – in many of these cases the alert must now also be taken care of. It is the division of responsibility in alert cases that is important. In principle, the warning should have been completely out of the picture at the moment the warning was given. But it's not like that, and it's probably not going to be like that either. Therefore, the alert needs a separate alert agent. I hear that there are arguments for efficiency and this kind of argument, but that means that it has not been understood that guiding in an alert case is something quite different than guiding in the actual relationship in the alert case, and that the alert needs that support. In the municipal sector, which I know best, law firms are often hired to train employees. They are used for audits and the investigations are used in legal proceedings against the alert. This work is not subject to secrecy, as it is not subject to the same provisions as other legal work. So these are very expensive reviews that are done instead of the municipalities investigating the alert and using the professional services that are suitable for it. There is a need for an alert agent, there is a need for a separate alert permit, and there is a need for an alert note. I believe that everyone agrees that warning is important, and that it should work, and that warnings should be protected, it is necessary that we get this in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e449	In the first post, I went only to the extent of getting into the minority proposals that the Workers' Party is promoting in the matter together with others. The proposals have in common that we believe that the government and the majority do not go far enough in important areas of strengthening the protection of alerts, as we also received clear feedback when we arranged the hearing in the case. As we say in the setting, in the view of the Workers' Party, there are at least three main signs of protection of alerts, and the first is that workers' rights need to be strengthened, not weakened. Under today's government, we have unfortunately experienced too much of the last. It is now that most workers experience a meaningful working day, but at the same time we see that the Norwegian model of working life, where tripartite cooperation is absolutely fundamental, is under pressure. Too many workers encounter unprofessionalism, social dumping and crime, and when the proportion of trade unionists has fallen below 50 pst, it should be a danger signal for everyone. Nevertheless, on both the Jeløya platform and the Granavolden platform, we saw that the Solberg government could stress that the unorganised labour market should be recognised. There is a false track – also in terms of achieving the goal of being safe to alert. Fafo has shown that it is easier to alert in workplaces with active trustees. A high level of organisation is necessary to ensure a decent working life. This is also the reason why the majority of the population – against the voices of the Right, the Advance Party and the Left – decided to ask the government to promote a case for the Storting with proposals that contribute to increasing the degree of organisation. But there has not yet been such a case, and the Council of State had no answer when it came. This relationship was also pointed out by the Control and Constitutional Committee here in the Chamber as late as two days ago. We assume that the government is actually following a decision on the roll-out, and ask that the government when the case comes, also look at how action on the increased level of organisation can contribute to a reinforced protection for alerts. We also call for clarification of the right to an anonymous alert, that we get a stronger source protection for those who choose to notify via the media, and that it must be clearly stated that the right of rental to notify covers all stages of a contract chain. So it has to be felt like it's safe to warn. The Labour Party has chosen to listen to clear feedback in the hearing and to recommendations from the Alert Committee that it is best to establish its own alert agent, as has been the case in the Netherlands. Thirdly, the rules of law must be observed. The public sector should therefore set a good example, but it unfortunately appears that in many cases public employers are among the worst. It has to end. We also have a couple of suggestions that are troubling that question, among other things. to highlight the Basic Act § 100 on freedom of expression in the alert provisions, as recommended by the Alert Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e466	Freedom of expression is a fundamental right, enshrined in the Constitution and in human rights. The freedom of expression for those added is part of the universal freedom of expression. A type of opinion is the participation of employees in political or professional debate within the fields of ownership or enterprise, and another type of opinion is alert to the fact that it is advocating from, internally or externally, whether or not the facts of the enterprise are critical. These two types of statements are consistent. For this reason, in my article, I would first of all like to refer to the proposal to include the opinion climate in the scope of the work environment law. I think it's a mile pole, and it's an extremely important proposal. The Ministry itself writes that a good climate of opinion in the enterprise will be ‘first and foremost characterised by a culture of ceiling for exchange of views and where criticism and other opinions are welcomed as a basis for improvement and development of the business’. A letter further states that warning is'seems to be a good thing, both for businesses and for society'. My point is that if you do not have a good opinion climate, you will not be given a safe warning. Hence, it is worrying when we learn that our working life is perceived as more and more authoritarian. In health care there is a lack of local rent, and in particular in the country there is a lot of vicariate and no fixed additions. In my post I would also like to mention something that I miss in the debate, and which I have asked many times before – that intervention in freedom of expression should have a foundation. One shall state the reasons for this separately. It may be based on the loyalty of employees. I have asked for it before and say it again now: we should look more closely at a legal clarification of the subject matter of unfairness, as the Commission on Freedom of Speech recommended in 1999, but one has never followed it up politically. The centre party supports the selection's proposal for a national alert box. This was supported by the majority — including both LO and NHO, Norway’s National Human Rights Institute, Lawyers’ Association, Norwegian Editors’ Association, etc. The fact that there may be a difficult limit to other prohibitions can be an argument, but that is a bad argument, because it is also in other fields when it is required. We have children's housing, but we also have a bullying out in the county. I think it's in place, and it's a very long-term measure to strengthen the alerts and get a better warning culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e479	The matter is part of a larger whole, and I would like to stress what is the Central Party's main slogan, that a well-organized working life is the prerequisite for a safe family life. Promoting the organisation of both employers and workers helps to improve working conditions. I would also like to underline the interaction, as the representative Kjersti Toppe now mentioned, between freedom of expression and warning. We have too many examples — in the health sector, in the municipal sector — of restricting freedom of expression in practice and contributing to a lower organisational culture. I also want to clarify something from my first post regarding posted workers. The point is that by amending the Working Environment Act to define fewer as posted workers, many who are not currently covered by the Alert Code will be covered by it because they are no longer defined as posted workers. The first paragraph of Section 1-7 of the Working Environment Act states: «Shipped worker» means a worker working for a limited period of time in a country other than that to which the employment normally relates.» What the Central Party and SV propose as a change to the law is that it is called: «Shipped worker» means a worker working for a period of up to 30 days in a country other than that to which the employment normally relates.» That's how we get a clarification and therefore an operational number of days that makes it possible to verify the relationship in practice. Otherwise, I would also like to comment on something of the representative Karin Andersen. I fully adhere to her assessments. What emerged in the hearing in view of the position taken by the Norsk Rådmannsforum fully confirms Karin Andersen's description. I was reasonably surprised at the position taken by the Norsk Rådmannsforum on this matter. It didn't seem like one had taken over the change that far more than SV, the centre party and the working party stand for, which also stands for the government parties. Here it's really a task to go in for the Norwegian Council Forum. As Andersen's representative said, the alert is the weak party here, and it's important that this is done in a good way. It is a matter of course our whole point that when one does not go in and use the Labour Inspectorate, it is because the further course of alerting matters implies that different supervision should play a role in it. I would like to ask the Council of State to go one more round to the government at this point, and I would also appeal to the Left to follow up that matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e511	We could probably spend a whole day discussing the warning provisions, because it's an important matter, but I just need to underline a few more points that have been important to the Workers' Party in the case. We share the government's view that there is a need for a low-threshold dispute resolution system that can help clear conflicts before they grow so large that they become unmanageable. Some hearing bodies considered that this should continue to be a task for the courts only, but there is a long and resource-intensive process that is obvious for too long and resource-intensive for many, especially for a worker who may experience a potential conflict alone. So we support that this can initially be added to the existing dispute resolution topic, but there are many notions that this task should also be mentioned without any other tasks in addition. Therefore, we ask the government to evaluate the scheme once it has been given a while, and come back to Stortinget with an assessment of whether it would still be better with its own name only for alert cases. In addition, we support the warning committee’s proposal that, in addition to the provisions on alerts in the Working Environment Act, a separate alert law is also drawn up. Not all alerts are workers, and although the government proposes to extend the scope of the provisions of the Environmental Protection Act, there will still be alerts not covered by protection under the Environmental Protection Act. Examples include patients, consumers or the general public. Finally, but nevertheless important, we have consideration for those who are being warned against it. It was part of the mandate of the Alert Committee, but it is not followed up by the government. Too many people may find it at least as demanding to stand in a situation where a warning has been given to them, such as being the one who warns – perhaps especially where the person it is warned against, is the employee himself. There are two parties to a notification. Both sides may need to be safeguarded and protected by legislation. Reconciliation may also be important if the parties continue to work at the same place of work and that thematic approach is not discussed in the proposition. We believe that to be a weakness. In addition, there may be cases where critical circumstances are notified that have affected a person who is not the person who has notified himself. LO, among other things, has been busy. But these people too may need protection. We therefore propose that rules be drawn up that better safeguard their rights as well. Finally, the Labour Party will vote against the proposal for point (a) of the third paragraph of Section 2 A-2. There is a demand on the part of the person who warns externally, that he must be in good faith in the content of the alert, and then we introduce some of the same uncertainty that was in the demand for critical conditions and soundness, which we have now had as an ambition to remove. Then that paragraph and that letter seem illogical.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e526	The last thing I agree very much with, it was one of the debates when we discussed the law for the first time, and it was one of the doubts, whether it was clear enough, and whether the concept of 'considerate good faith' will work well enough. Therefore, it should be removed. This proposal for better alert protection is very important at a time when management principles have changed also in the workplace, perhaps especially in the public sector – and where what has been called modernisation is increasingly used, but which in many ways is a tightening of professional freedom for professionals, and where there is too much target and performance management, which prevents professionals from doing a good job and in many cases punishes them when they are alerting about faults and deficiencies in the system. It is also seen in the light of the fact that this management philosophy has widened far into the public sector and in the management systems there, making it more difficult and difficult to alert and make it more difficult and difficult for the alerter not to be re-introduced, because it is said that it is part of the management, that is, that this is management and not retaliation. Therefore, there is a need to strengthen the protection of alerts, and also what Lise Christoffersen said: the protection of the one it is warned about. That may also be necessary. A small step towards the use of surveys carried out in many municipalities: therefore, examination is not legal work, it is not subject to secrecy. Millions of dollars are spent on these reports, which are often very one-sided, instead of using the supervision that is responsible for the various areas in which it is to be notified. In addition, there are other instances that can be notified if something is wrong. You can alert to municipal or county control committees, you can alert the State, etc. There you can discuss and clarify the professional, actual aspects of the alert, but none of these are equipped to protect the alert. As far as the Labour Inspectorate is concerned, they already have too heavy tasks today. They need more resources and have neither the competence nor the capacity to perform the job of alert protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e541	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e557	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that there be no loopholes, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e566	While the legislative proposals in this position consist to a large extent of corrections, clarifications, legislative amendments and the repeal of provisions which are no longer in use, some of the amendments should nevertheless be mentioned. The proposal to amend the Children’s Act is necessary to facilitate the implementation of the Decision of the Storting for the financial year 2019. The proposal to amend the Act on the pension scheme for the contractor in state emergency or family homes implies that the minimum limit on the right to membership of the scheme is harmonised by the minimum limit of 20 pst. by law of the State pension fund. The amendment to the Tax Administration Act provides for a derogation from the tax authorities’ obligation of professional secrecy, so that public service pension providers are given access to information on pensionable income for persons receiving the AFP from the scheme. The aim of this proposal is to facilitate the automation of post-settlement of the AFP. So the majority of the committee, the Right Party of Advancement, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party, have agreed to a minor change in the monthly amount paid to the surviving spouse when the member dies before retirement comes to payment. The time taken to calculate the lump sum shall remain until the age limit, but a limit of 67 years is set. The amendment is a consequence of a corresponding change in the calculation of widow's and widow's pensions from 1 January 2015, where the inclusion of the period of service in the calculation of widow's and widow's pensions is valid until the age limit, but not beyond 67 years. The latter amendment was related to the replacement of a disability pension from 1 January 2015 by an old-age pension at the latest at 67 years of age and to the provision of a period of service in the calculation of disability pension up to the age limit, but not beyond 67 years. The majority consider the proposal to be a natural follow-up to the changes relating to survivors' pensions and disability pensions, where both benefits are calculated for a period of time up to 67 years. The same should apply to the monthly amount paid to a surviving spouse when the member dies before the retirement pension is paid.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e583	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur. It's always nice for us others in the committee when one sacrifices and takes care of all the technique. There's a lot of work, but there's a lot of technology. That is why there is no need for a long debate, so I shall confine myself to what is not technical, but which the Labour Party considers to be petty. It is becoming a characteristic of this government that it is being cut into welfare benefits. We could get in a hurry: to disabled people, to disabled people, to retired people, to non-regulated people's rights, for example. basic, auxiliary, supplementary and cut-off benefits for those who do not even have a minimum pension to live on. The list is long and receives a new grant today. So this applies to the one-off amount of the remaining spouse when a member of the occupational pension scheme dies before his or her old age pension begins to run. We think that, in addition to being petty, it makes little sense. The government says in the Granavolden platform that a rate of increasing the general age limit in the country to 72 years, as it is in the Working Environment Act. Then, as I said, we miss the logic of a proposal to reduce the vesting time in the event of death from 70 to 67 years for members who have not opted for early retirement, but on the contrary, the government's call for long-term employment. So if one of them is so long in work and a door before you start taking a pension, it should be cut off in the one-time amount with which they are left behind. The Labour Party will vote against it. Thus, the first sentence of Section 26 and Section 9 of Section II of the third paragraph of the adjustment applies.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e592	This also applies to the pharmacies pension scheme law. The centre party has a note that refers to a proposal for a change in the calculation of the lump sum in case of death before the withdrawal of an old-age pension in the State Pension Fund Act and in the pharmacies pension scheme. We support the joint opinion reached by LO State, LO Municipality, UNIO and the Academics. We point out that organisations argue that the age limit is proposed to be raised further, and that it is therefore more natural that this limit be maintained in 70 years. We therefore oppose the government's proposal and have our own proposals on that point, the proposals No. 1 and 2, from the Center Party and SV, which I pick up. Furthermore, the Central Party points to the fact that we have opposed the government's proposal for underregulation of various subsidies. In the draft budget of the Centre Party for 2019, we ensured a price adjustment for a number of subsidy rates, including: contribution advances that the government once again proposed to cut. Against this background, the Central Party opposes the legislative proposal to provide a basis for alternative regulation of the Children’s Act § 73, second paragraph, and the Centre Party will vote against the proposal for Decision VII.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e599	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e604	I have no great need to say so much in this matter beyond what has been clarified in the comments, but there is a mistake in the recommendation in the setting where it says that the Senterparteen and SV make their own proposals to set the age limit to 70 years, while it should be said that we make our own proposals to set the age limit for ignition to 70 years. But there is no error in the legislative proposal in the setting, and we still vote for it. I would also like to inform you that SV votes against VII in the setting, which relates to contributions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e611	The Government has submitted proposals for changes to the Law on Social Security, the Coordination Act and some other laws. The amendments to the 14 laws are, to a large extent, amendments, clarifications, legislative amendments and the repeal of provisions which are no longer in use. I am pleased that the Committee supports the Government's proposals and that there is little disagreement about the proposals. I would like to link some comments to the change in the law on the State pension fund § 26 and the law on the pension scheme for pharmacies etc. Section 9. The changes relate to a monthly amount paid to the surviving spouse by members who die before retirement. In the calculation basis for this one-month pension, the period up to 70 years today may be included in the calculation basis. The legislative proposal sets the limit at 67 years. This amendment should have been made at the same time as the rules for calculating the survivor’s pension were amended in 2014. The corresponding change was then introduced for the actual calculation of the life-long survivor’s pension by including the time up to a maximum of 67 years in the calculation basis. The change was made as a result of limiting the payment period and the calculation basis for disability pension to 67 years. It is therefore surprising that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left now disagree with the change for the monthly amount. The change is of a purely creative nature. It has as its starting point to harmonise it with a proposal made by themselves. It is a strange claim from the Centre Party and the SV that the change could in part mean significantly lower payments for the individual. It's like one month's pension it's about, and not a full month's amount, but a slightly reduced earnings as a result of three fewer years to calculate it. I also point out that the provision has existed for a long time, and that since then, rules have been in place on the payment of group life, which surviving spouses also receive. As regards the amendment to the Children’s Act, this is necessary to facilitate the implementation of the Decision of the Storting for the financial year 2019. We also make changes as a result of the follow-up to the new IA agreement, which I am pleased that the government was able to do. One of the instruments is linked to the self-communication rules, where we are now imposing an obligation to discuss the extended right to self-communication with the trustees. These are legislative proposals for 14 laws. There are extensive proposals, but they are essentially clarifications and technical changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e630	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e646	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e655	Let me begin by thanking the Committee for the cooperation in the treatment of new occupational pensions for public sector employees, where the proposition follows mainly the agreement concluded on 3 March 2018 between the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, LO, UNIO, YS, the Academics, KS and Specter. No reform has meant more for the Norwegian economy, the sustainability of the welfare society and individual employees than the pension reform. Today, when we adopt amendments to the State Pension Fund Act, a new occupational pension for public sector employees, a new, important piece of the pension reform will be put in place. This comes after several years of good negotiations with the social partners and has gained broad support from public employees. It shows that the solution is strongly sought both by government employees and by their organisations — or as VG wrote after the initial vote of the trade union movement: ‘There was a growing commitment to a new pension of 800000 in the public sector.’ LO’s first Vice-Chairman, Peggy Hessen Følsvik, said to the same newspaper that the result indicates ‘that we have an agreement with which the members are satisfied and which ensures us a good and solidarity occupational pension in the public sector’. The agreement agreed on a good lifelong pension and an early retirement supplement for those who need it. There was an agreement on a strike model in which all the years in work are to provide earnings from the first penny. The new plan is introduced from 2020 for employees born in 1963 or later. The solution implies that there remains a uniform government pension scheme, with life-long pensions and equal rules for women and men. The new pension scheme makes it easier for government employees to compensate for the effect of living adjustments by standing longer in employment. The new old age pension can be taken out flexibly from the age of 62 and freely combined with work. The proposition also contains transitional rules from today’s to new arrangements. The new arrangements shall apply to those born in 1963 or later. Older coal retains today's AFP scheme and continues to earn pensions in today's scheme. The new arrangements will improve the number of public employees to be longer employed, and government employees will have the same opportunity as private sector employees to maintain pension levels as life increases. A new conditional occupational pension is also introduced which will increase the security of the future pension for those who do not qualify for the AFP. Conditional occupational retirement provision shall be eligible for flexible retirement from 62 to 70 years. The new arrangements ensure that you do not lose your acquired rights when changing jobs. The transfer agreement continues and facilitates continued good mobility. The majority of the Committee, which is also behind the Committee’s recommendation – Right, Advance Party, Left and Christian People’s Party, points out that the broad agreement on the pension agreement was reached when employee organisations anchored the agreement among their members, suggesting that the new pension scheme is strongly sought by public employees. The new pension solution is a balanced solution, which takes account of the need for labour and the needs of employees for predictability and the possibility of a good pension, given the changes in social security. At the hearing, the employee organisations considered that the government was essentially following up the agreement, but that proposals were also made which were not mentioned in the agreement. This applies to children’s allowances to the old age pension and payment period when a member dies and has a surviving spouse. These are modest restrictions, which are justified by a desire to harmonise private sector legislation. The legislative proposal also contains proposals which are extensions compared to today's rules but are not mentioned in the agreement. This applies, inter alia, to: the entry rules for older workers, where the proposal proposes some favourable rules than those resulting from the legislation in force. This was also not mentioned in the agreement. We have noticed that the parties are impatient after legislating public AFPF. That's good, but it would be not very appropriate, given the process of private AFP. By 2025, there will be either legislative proposals for new public AFP, as described in the agreement of 3 March, or the parties will be involved to change the agreement. I'll finish where I started. No reform has meant more for the Norwegian economy, the sustainability of the welfare society and individual employees than the pension reform. Now, when we adopt a new occupational pension for public sector employees, a new, important piece of the pension reform is in place. This comes after several years of negotiations with the social partners and has gained broad support from public employees. There's very good reason to welcome this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e684	Again, thank you to the President-in-Office. As she has explained, this case concerns the follow-up to the new public service pension agreement, in which occupational retirement provision and the AFP for public servants are converted into life-long recruitment schemes in addition to social security. As the rapporteur said, it is an important part of the implementation of the pension reform. However, there are still important issues that remain – such as earning a pension from the first crown of private occupational pension, job breaks for admission to the public sector occupational pension scheme, possible changes in the private sector AFP, and not least the discussion of the regulatory principles for ongoing pensions in the population’s security. So I don't think the Storting is going to be unemployed when it comes to retirement, for quite a while yet. Of course, the Labour Party supports the proposals in the proposition that follow from the agreement that have been voted on by the Members, so I am not going to go into this in detail right now. I'd rather use time to refer to the parts of the proposition that we have critical notes on. In the Enlarged Bureau's hearing on the matter, employee organisations promoted a joint, fully-consistent opinion, indicating that the government is following up the agreement in most areas, but that the proposition violates the agreed agreement on some important points, including: a reduction in the time of withdrawal and termination of the application pension, the removal of child allowances, the conversion of short gross earnings into the application pension, and the retirement pension for persons with a special age limit, which is intended to enter into negotiations at a later stage. They also consider that a breach of the intent of the agreement regarding the calculation of broken earnings in the gross scheme. And the employee organisations stress that as long as the AFP is not currently regulated, they want a guarantee from the Stortinget that the provisions of the pension agreement on AFP must be respected for those to be covered by the new AFP from 1 January 2020, i.e. even if the legal provisions should not be in place in time. After all, there is a guarantee that does not cost anything, so it seems to the Workers' Party that we can 'cost ourselves'. Then we support the organisations and their assessments that there is something called good contract, which one should try to deal with. It implies that one party to a concluded agreement does not unilaterally address new points after the conclusion of the agreement or modify the content of parts of the contract. As long as there is disagreement about the interpretation of the agreement between the parties, the Workers' Party considers that the parties should sit down and figure it out together. We therefore believe that the Storting cannot take a decision on those questions now, and we are going to vote against the proposals for amendments to the suspension on the points of disagreement on the content of the agreement, so Stortinget will get that case back. I mentioned the AFP guarantee. We propose it. I also want to refer to the Stortingen's unanimous decision when we dealt with Prop. 61 L last year, on amendments to the State Pension Fund Act and new coordination rules between gross occupational pension and public pension earned under new rules. Then the Stortinget agreed that it was a big and heavy matter, we had a very short time to deal with it, and we didn't even have time to consult about it in Stortinget. Therefore, the Storting unanimously asked for a comprehensive presentation and review of future life expectancy adjustment and coordination of public sector service pensioners in the context of the presentation of today’s proposition. There are quite a number of figures showing how new rules are coming out, but we cannot see that the effect of new and more stringent coordination rules on low-earning people that we dealt with a year ago is reflected in the tables and figures in the chapter in question. That is why we are simply promoting that part of the proposal again, because it is difficult to have an overview of the consequences for those with low earnings. Finally, we have asked for an overview of all the changes made in the pension scheme under the government of Solberg, precisely because the government of Solberg has ended with the practice of the red-green government in the case of the pension agreement, namely to consult the parliamentary leaders before submitting proposals for amendments. So I wonder, President, shall I refer to the paragraphs we want to vote against, or shall I take it later?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e703	We can do that later. Will the representative address the proposals of the Workers' Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e708	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e713	The representative Lise Christoffersen has taken up the proposals of the Workers' Party and SV and the proposals that the Workers' Party is behind alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e718	Pension is a complex area. I believe that anyone who listens to the debate and participates in it can be a few. There are many different concerns to weigh up against each other. The fact that the parties reached agreement on several important questions about public service pensions last year is therefore gratifying. The proposition, presented by the government, is essentially a follow-up to this unity. For the government's part, the agreement on a new public service pension, born after 1963, is important in several areas, but perhaps because it reduces the barriers to employee change without losing a pension. That's good. However, the new pension solution is good in several other areas, including: because there is a high degree of flexibility and that it is now easier to compensate for the changes in life expectancy by providing ignition for all years of work and from the first crown. At the same time, there is a new conditional service pension to secure future pensions for those who do not qualify for the AFP, which can take between 62 and 70 years. Although the Progress Party did not vote in favour of the pension reform in its time, we are concerned that the various mechanisms should be harmonised in order to move in the same direction. As a result, it is good that the new pension solution builds up under the intentions of the pension reform to encourage more people to stand longer in work. The proposal also proposes a temporary solution for those who are subject to special age limits. The agreement between the parties is that the process of reaching agreement on pension rules for these should be in port in the fall. So this is going to come back to us later. Then there are some employee organisations who, during the hearings of this case, stated that some of the things in the agreement that were concluded are not followed up in the proposition. Among other things, there is a payment period for death and child allowances, where today's proposal is a little narrower than today's legislation. To say that these themes are not mentioned in the agreement, and one cannot present it as missing follow-up to the agreement. The changes proposed here are due to a desire to harmonise with private schemes and popular concerns. There should be equal treatment between private and public schemes. There is also no reason, in our view, for the public to add children's allowances to the old age pension when there is no corresponding supplement to the ordinary old-age pension in the Intro or Service Pensions Act. In our view, it is also not right that a child supplement to an old age pension should be paid inconclusively because a child is born late in life. For natural reasons, men tend to have children so late in life that payments are made through the pension system. We see no reason for that system to continue. For those who still have the gross scheme, that is, the old scheme, the children's supplement will now be phased out gradually. All in all, we think that the proposals in this proposition follow up the agreement between the parties in a good way, and we come back to the special age limits later.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e743	For the Central Party, the most important thing in this case is coordination, which arises from the coordination of old-age pensions from popular and public-service pensions for the age group born from 1944 to 1962. The coordination arrangement results in lower and lower occupational retirement provision and the total pension, the longer they work beyond the age of 67 plus the adjustment of their standard of living. So these are penalised economically by standing longer in work. This will work against the taskbar. The centre party believes that the Stortinget did wrong when the coordination law, the coordination law, was amended from 1 January 2011. The size was not sufficiently informed about the consequences of the coordination cases. It was a widespread belief that increased popular fear compensated this loss. It's wrong, because the people's money was converted into a stock for all employees, so they get the same total pension, the same total payment, whether they take the people's money early or late. If they take it out early, they get a lower amount per year, but the social security is paid over several years. If they take it out late, they get a higher amount per year, but it's paid over less years. Government parties write in a note on page 11 of the new pension scheme legislation for people born after 1963: ‘The majority point to the fact that the agreement is based on the same principles as the public interest and supports the intention behind the pension reform. Although pension expenditure in isolation will increase with the new schemes, compared with the continuation of current schemes, the incentives of the new schemes are likely to increase the number of people in employment. This is important both for the provision of work and for society.’ So one goes in to get more work done. Party writes in configuration, page 14: ‘In this context, reference is made to the letters of reply of the Council of State to the Committee dated 10 December 2018, where it appears that no loss in the total annual pension is made to work beyond the age of 67. These members refer to calculations from the KLP which may indicate that some may actually lose weight in working longer.» So the Labour Party has got into some doubt, but it relies on the Council of State's letter. The new comprehensive public service pension legislation discriminates heavily against long-term public employees. The age groups born before 1944 retain earned occupational pension. The group from 1944 to 1953 comes out badly and loses the entire occupational pension if they work until they are 72–73 years old. The group born from 1954 to 1962 also comes out badly and is financially punished by working longer, but they come out a little better than the old age schools born from 1944 to 1953. Those born after 1963 will be very good if they work beyond the age of 67 plus lifestyle adjustment. This is clearly visible in the SSB Report 2018/33, Public Service Pension Reform. Governments and representatives of the Right have made a number of written and oral statements that misinform the coordination cases. The Council of State states that the coordination group is the result of negotiations with the employee organisations. However, all employee organisations deny that there have been negotiations on the coordination partnerships and all protested against the impact of letters to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs as early as 2010, before the reform was introduced. Governments state that public pensioners who work beyond the age of 67 receive a pension guarantee of 66 pst. of final pay in any case, and that only the distribution between social security and occupational pension changes. That's wrong. The Council of State says that repealing the coordination framework will undermine the pension reform. That's wrong. The coordination arrangement counteracts the purpose of the pension reform to stay longer in work and to reduce future expenditure on pensions. It leads to fewer employees entitled to a public service pension being employed. Its former civil servants leave, the several years of which they receive an occupational pension. Therefore, the scheme contributes to increasing the cost of public service pensions and to reducing tax revenue and value added. The council says it's 15 billion. to correct the error. That's wrong. Pension funds finance future pensions through payments made by the employer and the employee’s own payments. When the person has full pension, all the money is in place. It is difficult to measure how much society has lost or will lose in the future because employees choose not to work anymore. They have at least strong financial incentives to quit the job when they reach the age at which the coordination centres occur. This is in conflict with the taskbar, which is normally occupied by the right. I just want to say in the end: the coordination case has not been taken up by the Right speaking person here, not by the Workers' Party's spokesperson, not by the Advance Party's spokesperson. I have to say that it is very arrogant – when we from the Central Party have such clear comments, such clear reasons as are documented – that one does not go into the debate on the matter. [[The President clubs.]] But the debate will probably continue in other forums.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e773	Would the representative like to comment on the proposals of the Central Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e778	The proposals are addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e784	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has then addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e789	In its hearing on 7 May 2019, LO, UNIO, YS and the Academics delivered a joint hearing memo. Employee organisations indicate that the proposition follows the pension agreement concluded between the public sector and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. At the same time, organisations point out that although the proposition follows the agreement in most areas, there are also several proposals in the proposition that break the agreement or the intention in the agreement. The organisations pointed out that there were several issues that were not included in the negotiations, but that the government is still proposing to weaken or remove them. Here the government is at risk of weakening the trust between the parties with this procedure, so SV will vote against any changes to this proposition that are not considered part of the agreement. The points which are not considered as part of the contract but which are nevertheless proposed to be amended by the government are restrictions at the time of withdrawal and cancellation of the encumbrance pension, the removal of the child supplement from the enrolment pension, the conversion of short gross intensification into the enrolment pension and the retirement pension to persons with special age limits. Furthermore, the employee organisations believe that the proposition breaks with the intention of the agreement at the following point: that the AFP is not currently being legalised, and the calculation of the cancelled ignition in the gross scheme. I record that although the government is strongly focused on the line of work and the value of long-term work, no consideration is given to employee organisations' wish for better work intensively from 1944 to 1962, which continue to work after ratio 1 has been reached. Getting little or no payment from the service pension scheme may undermine the legitimacy of a collective service pension scheme. The Socialist Left opposed the pension reform in 2005 with the foundation that the reform is socially biased. This was a fight we lost later in the same year, in government negotiations. EN believes that even if there was a need for a pension reform, among other things. In order to reduce the cost of pension schemes, the reform could take much more account of the fact that large groups have both shorter lives and jobs where many are worn out and have to stop working long before they have been in the labour market long enough to compensate for the changes in life expectancy. In addition, there has been an increasing emphasis on individual private pension savings, which do not have the redistribution mechanisms that are important to avoid large pension groups ending up with too low pensions. Those with the highest incomes have the greatest potential to save on additional pensions, and it is also this group that enjoys the greatest of the new tax benefits that this government has introduced for individual pension savings. So there's less money left to secure them with the lowest pension. I think that a minimum is that disability pensioners are screened from the living adjustments, because they don't have the ability to work anymore to compensate for the living adjustments, nor do they have the great potential for private pension enhancement. This proposition implies, in line with the agreement between the parties on 3 March 2018, that public service pension will adapt the living adjustment of the population. In addition to that, I would remind the government party that it is important to respect party cooperation and to accept the changes that the parties have been able to make. I'm taking up SV's suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e808	The representative Solfrid Lerbreck has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e813	The case of a new public service pension for those added to the public sector has responded to several challenges we face in the labour market. We're in the transition to a greener society. New technology and the specialised knowledge society change the way we work, and what we work with: More people work on screen, fewer people on the floor, people change jobs more often. All of this puts pressure on welfare systems, which were established at a different time. The security arrangements give us and the need for such security has not changed. However, in order to safeguard and further develop security, welfare systems also need to adapt to developments. Work life is already in good shape in the transition. This policy will not always change as quickly. Now the main intentions of the pension reform are met. We need a pension system that makes working pay and that adapts the situation. People like to, and probably to an increasing extent, have different working conditions during a life, generally both in the public and private sectors, and this needs to be reflected, not complicated, in pension schemes. With today's public service pension, it doesn't always pay to continue working after age 67. In particular, it applies in the public sector. A state pension supplement would be reduced by the State pension fund if it had income from a post with membership of a public service pension scheme. If the same person worked privately, it wouldn't have worked on the public retirement pension. The new scheme is fairer and more seamless as the pension can be combined with income without shortening it. The new scheme will also be more flexible than the one we have today, because you will not lose your set of dishes if you change your job. The pension reform had in its time a broad majority. Most of us agree that there is a value in itself that more people can do more work. Many people want to work even if they are 67 years old, or 70 years old for that purpose. It is important for the individual who can continue to contribute to society and be part of a community that is important to them, and at the same time it is good for the country with several hands at work. We need to be able to hold on to the good skills of seniors in the workplace a little longer – and at least if they want to. But today there are few carrots for people who want to continue their career after retirement. The new scheme builds up under an important point: those who want to work after they reach the age of 67, will be encouraged to do so and tend to it. With the proposed impact model, the pension content of all born in or after 1963 will be based on annual ignition, and all years of work up to 75 years of age will give full ignition. The proposal, as also pointed out by the case-leader, is a fulfillment of the agreement between the social partners from 3 March last year. Tripartite cooperation is essential if we are to close the process of reforming welfare arrangements so that they are also viable for the future, and not least that the changes that have been made take care of what may be contrary to the interests of the parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e834	The legislative proposal under consideration here today represents an important milestone in the finalisation of the pension reform. The work on the pension reform has been ongoing since 2001, when the government of Stoltenberg I set up the Pension Commission. With the legislative proposals under consideration today, the last piece of the pension reform is soon in place. The path to full pension reform has been a complex process with a long cross-political history. It has been about balancing the interests of different occupational groups, genders and generations and finding good compromises over time. The agreement entered into by the Government with the parties on 3 March last year is part of this tradition. The broad agreement on the pension agreement by which the employee organisations anchored the agreement among their members shows that the pension scheme is also strongly sought by government employees. The new occupational pension differs significantly from the current gross occupational pension. The new occupational pension shall be calculated independently of the social security system and shall not be coordinated with the social security system. This will provide many low-paid people with a clearly better occupational pension than is the case today, where the contribution of the occupational pension is often reduced to those who receive minimum benefits from social security. The new occupational pension will provide government employees with a much more flexible pension solution and it will be easier to compensate for the effect of the living adjustment. The new occupational pension will ensure a good pension level for public employees in the future as their life expectancy increases. The new occupational pension is based on the same principles as the pension reform and supports the intentions behind the reform. This is both right and important. Although the new occupational pension differs significantly from the current gross occupational pension, some principles that are of great value to employees are continued. There will continue to be a unified public sector pension system, with guaranteed regulation, lifelong pension and equal rules for women and men. The legislative proposals are a technical follow-up to the March agreement last year. On a number of points, however, it has been necessary to specify legislation at a level of detail that goes far beyond what can be addressed in an agreement. It is therefore true that the legislative proposal also contains some proposals that are not mentioned in the agreement. This applies to children’s allowances to the old age pension and payment period when a member dies and has a surviving spouse. These are minor intensities, and they are justified, among other things. with a desire for harmonisation with private sector legislation. On some points, however, the legislative proposal also contains proposals which are extensions compared to current rules and which are not mentioned in the agreement. This applies, inter alia, to: entry rules for older workers, where changes are proposed on a principle basis. The government is loyal to the agreements we have made with the parties. The proposals relating to special age pension are in line with the agreement signed by the parties on 12 December last year. The proposals relating to short-time working in the current system are also in line with the intention of the March agreement last year, as reflected by the employee organisations’ consultation responses. I record that the Centre Party is involved in the coordination rules for the annual coals born before 1963. The majority has recently dealt with the proposals of the Centre Party, and they did not get a majority. I also recall that the Stortinget dealt with these coordination rules in June 2018. The principles of 2010 were then passed on to only one vote: the gross occupational pension should not be more than 66 pst, and it should be coordinated as if the social security rate were to be charged at the same time as the occupational pension. Therefore, I do not want to spend time commenting on the proposals from the Center Party, but I take a great deal of distance from the allegations that I am deliberately misinformed. That's not right. Both employee organisations and an overall committee largely support the current legislative proposals. I have not registered any disagreement with the most central parts of the bill – new generation rules and flexible and neutral withdrawal rules. It's a pleasure, but it's not a matter of course. Today's system has survived for well over 100 years, despite repeated attempts at change. So it is a milestone that there is now broad support for a completely new public service pension.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e862	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e867	My first question to the Council of State relates to the so-called zero-pensioners, to say it with a little bit of a simple expression. It's almost a phase out. There are a few remaining in some age groups, and as the Council of State itself was involved, we were also concerned with that issue when we discussed the coordination law a year ago. At the time, the State Council replied to Stortinget that there is no one who loses in the total annual pension to work longer in the public sector. Now, from the Labour Party's side, we've put a table in the committee's position that shows that there are actually some people who take out social security at 67 years of age and public service pension at 70 years of age who can risk losing. And my question is, has the government looked at that table in the setting, and does she still insist that no one loses working anymore?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e872	Yes, we've compiled a lot of tables to show how the pension scheme will turn out for future pensioners, and they're also shown in the proposition. If you have full earnings and you wait to take out both popular and public service pensions, you shouldn't lose it. But if you take out popular security while you're at work, it won't be that public service pension will compensate for withdrawals of popular security later on. In that case, it would be to double up, and it would not be in line with the legislation. It is true that in the new pension scheme you will no longer have zero pensioners. Then everyone who has earned a post-employment pension will be paid something. It was also important for the parties to get through, and it got them through the negotiations we had with the parties last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e881	Thanks for the answer. There was basically no answer to the question I asked, but I respect that these are complicated matters. So we might find another way to get a concrete answer to that question. My next question concerns the points of the agreement in which there is disagreement about the content, and there are proposals in the proposition – and that is what the Council of State has now said – that have not been part of the negotiations between the parties. Now we are aware that employees could also have wanted to deal with things that have not been agreed between the parties. Does the Council of State really think that it is a good deal unilaterally to put things into a bill for the Stortinget – after a debate and after a bad vote – that has not been the subject of those negotiations?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e888	To the very first question, how the pension will turn out depends a little on whether you are covered by old or new legislation or whether you are covered by both. As far as the agreement is concerned, it is important for me to say that everything we agreed on has also been followed up by the government. So it's true that there were some relationships that we didn't mention in the agreement, where we had to go deeper into the process afterwards, because it was too detailed and too complicated for us to agree on everything. I believe that we have balanced the different considerations. I notice that both Stortinget and the organisations believe that we have broken the agreement where the employees have not received what they wanted, but there have been no allegations of breach of contract where we have given concessions to the organisations. I think it's a little special that you make claims about a breach of contract only when it goes one way. In part, something is desirable from the employee organisations, including rematches, and of course we cannot agree to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e895	Thanks for the answer. I notice that the Council of State says it was too complicated to be able to agree, and it should probably have been a further argument that once you had dug down further, you took another round with the one you have made an agreement with before a leave the matter before the Stortinget. But enough about it. A point was raised at the Stortinget hearing on the part of pharmacists, who also want an occupational pension scheme based on the pattern of what we are going to adopt here today. There, the negotiations broke down between the parties. They wanted the Storting's help to move on. It is a little difficult for us in a way to get into that kind of negotiation break, but I expect that it is also in the government's wish that the people in the pharmacies also get into a similar arrangement. So I wonder if the Council of State is going to take any initiative to get those negotiations going again?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e903	I cannot accept that the leftover impression is that the government is breaking agreements, because the government does not. Let me take the conversion rules as a concrete example. It would be quite complicated to sit and negotiate how these conversion rules should be, technically. We sent one proposal to the hearing, and we received feedback that would be too complicated. We then chose another solution, which would fulfill the intention of what was agreed upon, and that has also been confirmed by the organisations. AFP is another example. We have agreed that the public sector AFP should reflect what was agreed in the private sector. In the private sector, no agreement is yet reached, and then one must also wait for a public AFP to look like it. This is clearly enshrined in the agreement. It is true that we have not made proposals for the pharmacists, and that is simply because the parties have not agreed. We believe it would be unfortunate if we took a decision on this now, before the parties themselves have agreed on a solution. I also assume that the parties will resume those negotiations as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e914	The centre party has never used such strong words in any setting in the past as when we write that the council misinformed about the coordination cases. That's why we're serious, and it's quite arrogant by the Council of State not to try to refute our claims, but just say that the Center Party is down. But I have some questions. For government employees who were born in 1944-1953, there is a marked increase in take-off at 67 years, so they are working shorter hours. In the case of people born after 1963, government parties say: ‘the incentives of the new schemes are likely to increase the number of people in employment. This is important both for the provision of work and for society.’ So if one is born after 1963, it is good that one is longer in work. Will the Council of State regret that today's legislation is such that the state staff now end more than before at 67 years, while they were previously longer at work?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e932	Yes, there are very strong words the Center Party uses in the setting. In parliamentary language, it is very strong to accuse a Council of State of deliberately misinforming. It is a reality that we reject the claims that come, but the representative Lundtigen does not accept the answers given. He has his alternative facts to which he refers. In fact, in 2009, – unfortunately, I would say – the public sector organisations said no to the pension reform. They said no to be able to get the same benefits as what they said yes to in the private sector. It goes without saying that you can't just choose to get benefits from a reform and no downside. That's what would be the consequence of following the proposals of the Center Party. The public sector would get benefits that no one else had, without taking the downside, and the bill had to be paid by someone else.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e939	The Council of State does not answer the question. It is possible to fix errors, there is no shame in turning them around. It shouldn't be this in Stortinget either. I can ask the question a little differently: the Council of State argues that if people wait until they are 73–74 years of age, they will get an unreasonably high pension level – about 90 pst. – if they retain the occupational pension. They were born in 1944-1953. People with a public occupational pension born after 1963 who work until they are 73 years old, will get a total of 110 pst. of the wages and salaries of the pension scheme. What does the Council of State think is the right level?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e944	In this context, when the representative Lundtigen talks about the full possibility of correcting errors, it will mean that public employees will receive benefits that no one else has, without having to pay for the disadvantages – as everyone else has to do – and the bill for it will be sent to future generations. I think that is wrong. The organisations said no thanks to this solution in 2009. That was unwise, but we are now correcting that the public servants of the future will now be able to enjoy the same benefits as those in the private sector, but also, of course, have to face the disadvantage if you leave early. It's important now to get this piece in place just because it was unwise not to do it in the previous round. With the new pension reform, government employees will be able to compensate for the life expectancy adjustment — first, and they will also be able to obtain payoffs for each year they work extra. And the longer you wait to take out a pension, the more you get a pension. I think that's a perfectly correct grip to take.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e951	That's the line change. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e958	It is little incredible and regrettable that the majority barely mentions the coordination cases without having concrete, direct questions about it. The coordination agreement, which implies that a large group of government employees, government employees born between 1944 and 1953, i.e. government employees aged between 66 and 75 this year, lose their occupational pension every year when they have worked beyond the age of 67 – year for year, month for month, day for day – until the retirement pension is zeroed at the age of a little over 72 years. One refers to popular fear and uses it as a reason why these rules are reasonable. But popular security is a stock, a total sum, that one is to be paid, and one from the age of 67 can choose whether one is to be paid social security along with full-time or part-time jobs, or whether one will wait with payment. If a waiter pays, it also uses it as a reason that it is reasonable to withdraw a post-employment pension that the employee has earned. It is totally unreasonable that it is used as a justification here. When one says that there are mistakes that have been made in the past, one should correct the wrong that has been done to these age groups. One pushes the organisations in front of it. But the organisations that have been involved and negotiated just said that no, they have not been involved and negotiated this topic, and they have also taken up and protested against this effect in the form of letters already in 2010. It's also unreasonable for another reason. If the public employee instead of continuing his or her job beyond the age of 67 and contributing to the community and contributing to his or her work, ends up in his or her job and hires him or her, then there is no coordination agreement. In that case, there is an opportunity to receive both full employee income, pension and avoid a year-on-day reduction in occupational retirement provision. Therefore, it is clearly unfair to a large group of public employees, who get reduced pension rights through what happens. I find it very regrettable that the majority is not willing to rectify this unfairness, nor is it willing to address the extensive comments made by the Central Party in this case, based also on the feedback received from those affected by the legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e971	What I didn't get in my first post was to say which parts of the setting the Workers' Party is going to vote against. This applies to Sections 26(c), 26(l), 26(g), 20(a) and 26(h) and the corresponding paragraphs of IV: § 11(c), 11(l), 11(g), 6(a) and 11(h). These are circumstances that we believe the Council of State should take back to the parties to the agreement. I just want to comment on cards with the AFP. The Council of State has been very clear in its proposal and has also said here from the Chair that the AFP should mirror new AFP in the private sector. This is something on which the parties to the agreement protest, and refers to what is in the agreement, where the right to say is stated: ‘Employees born in 1963 or later shall have a new AFP scheme designed in accordance with the model of the AFP scheme in the private sector.’; It's old AFP as long as it applies. As long as there have not been changes in the private AFP, it is the AFP that applies. There's clearly a disagreement, and it's important that a person clarify such questions, because it's not very long for someone to start taking out the new AFP in the public schemes. Governments have shown several times that things are so complicated that it is not possible to agree with the parties. My impression is that the parties are very competent with regard to retirement, but they might be difficult for, is the individual member who is going to try to figure out what a person is going to get in retirement. I don't think many people are able to do that right now. We therefore have a proposal where we: ‘will take the initiative of the government to establish a simpler digital solution for persons wishing to calculate their future pension in advance, based on the possible combinations of pensions and work available’. The central party's speeches from the pulpit here may clearly show that there is a need for people to be able to orient themselves in the pension jungle in order to make qualified choices. So on top of the tap an answer to the Center Party: the Labour Party is not arrogant, but the speaking time was out. We have raised the question of zero-pensioners, we have proposals to get a case to Stortinget, and we are aware that the state as a contracting partner refused to discuss that point at all in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e992	Many who are part of the public service pension have been living in error and have not been aware of the rules, and have thus continued to work in the belief that it would pay off on a pension basis. The central party has proposals, along with the Workers' Party, that pension funds send written letters six months in advance to those who become pensioners, i.e. at 67 years, and tell them about their situation, so that at least they don't have to live on in error. Furthermore, I would like to briefly mention: the employee organisations say in a joint consultation opinion that Prop. 87 L follows up the agreement in most areas, but that the proposition violates the agreement in some respects. The centre party shall follow the positions of the organisations with the exception of proposals for child supplementation in the impact pension. The centre party is opposed to continuing this child supplement. On page 12, fourth paragraph, there is an error from the Centre Party in the case of pharmacists. The centre party shall be a member of the majority. The central party agrees that the parties resume the cooperation of the parties if they do not wish the present arrangement to continue. It is true that I have used strong words in the setting and in the post. It's quite conscious, because there's no negotiated agreement that legitimizes the pension traps. State council says pensioners with a public occupational pension get 66 pst. That's not right. Pensioners with a public service pension would get 66 pst. if they died at 67 years of age. Persons in the age groups born from 1944 to 1962 who work beyond their age, where it is compensated for the adjustment of their life expectancy, receive lower occupational pensions the longer they work. If they in the age group born from 1944 to 1953 work until they are 73 years of age, the occupational pension will be lost and they will have a total pension level of approx. 50 pst. Governments are not willing to correct errors, government parties are not willing to comment on it and say that there will be benefits for pensioners that no one else can get, that the bill will be sent to future generations. There are errors. If there is some bill sent to future generations, it is the bill for pensioners born after 1963 – because they come out well. They can come out with a total pension of 110 pst, and then the council here argues for the group that is more or less randomly born from 1944 to 1962, that it can get into 90 pst, which is thus lower. The Council of State argues that it is important for people to be able to work and to substantiate the fact that those who are state employees are going to retire earlier than before, that is, the opposite of what is intention. There will be a discussion in the future outside this hall, for this is an important principle that has not been refuted by the government parties or the Workers' Party today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1005	I hear the representative Lundtigen thinks it is arrogant not to accept the debate on his premises. It may be, but it's rarely I go into a debate and start by arguing against what I think is false notions. The disagreement between the government parties and Lundtigen is not due to the fact that the government has not understood that the public interest has neutral exclusion rules. The point is that in 2009 the parties said no that public service pension should have neutral exclusion rules. Annual pensions are not lower for those who end early, and the result of this is that annual pensions also do not increase for those who work after they have compensated for the living adjustments. It will be wrong to convert the negative consequences of a settlement for one group, keep the positive consequences for all the others and send the bill to future pensioners and professionals. Government employees who work beyond the age at which they have compensated for the standard of living receive their gross guarantee if they take out social security at the same time as the occupational pension. The occupational pension shall not compensate for the early withdrawal of social security. There has been a clear premise since 2010, and there has been no disagreement about this either. Then I want to remind you of the generation solidarity of the pension agreement. Today's pensioners had to accept living adjustments, while tomorrow's pensioners have to work more and work longer. Then I would like to remind you that tomorrow's pensioners are the children who have demonstrated several times in front of the Storting because they fear for their and the planet's future. I want them, in addition, not to fear their own pensions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1017	The representative Nordby Lunde is talking about sending the bill to future generations. What are we talking about in this case? Well, it's those who choose and have the opportunity to continue working according to their health after age 67. Then it's what we, as a big community, are going to show them both the dignity and the rights they have, because they're going to respect their acquired rights related to occupational retirement and not to lose occupational pension year by year, day by day as they work after age 67. It doesn't apply to everyone either. This applies to some specific age groups. Then one is not willing to see it, not willing to attend to those groups, but talking about sending the bill to future generations. Those who continue to work after 67 years are contributing to the community. Instead of taking out a pension and receiving a occupational pension in those years, they contribute their work to society. Then you get a hearing from the Great Britain's pulpit that one sends the bill to future generations – if the public employees, the day they choose to retire, they don't want to get the occupational pension they have actually paid and earned. It is grossly unfair to those concerned, and to all the public employees of those age groups, that one is not willing to grant them fair pension rights. Now Stortinget has a new opportunity today. We have dealt with the matter once before. Now we are dealing with it again – with the possibility of correcting previous errors, which have not been disclosed to them. People in good faith have continued to work after age 67, because one thought it was something that the big community also thought was positive, something that would pay off, and that one would actually be valued. At least that should not lead to a lost pension. The smallest majority should therefore be able to do is to support the Centre Party and the Workers' Party's proposal that such information should go out to the employees concerned, about what it has to mean if they continue to work after the age of 67. If a reader on Nav's websites and sees the description of the pension rights that apply, it says that after 67 years, one can start taking out a pension from the population, and one can well continue to work after that. There's nothing there about the kind of consequences it has for the public employees of those groups. That's why I want to ask for that information.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1028	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1033	Detecting errors has not been rejected. Employee organisations deny in writing that they have supported the coordination arrangements. It is a fact that the work of the age group born in 1944 to 1953 to the age of 73 years, the occupational pension is lost, and they receive a total pension of about one year. 50 pst. It's a fact -- unlike what the Council of State says, where she says that pensioners from the public who work beyond the age of 67 get their pension guarantee of 66 pst. of the final salary in any case. It is quite special that we cannot agree on the fact of the matter. I recognize that it's complicated, but it would have been an opportunity now to go one more round, because some groups are going to get very bad out. That one is not willing to correct its information is strong, but it is important that we take the discussion further into other forums.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1040	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1056	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, the exchange of lines be given with up to three lines, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to subscribe to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1065	Let me first stress that the government parties are eager to continue to get real real-time electronic information in the HMS cards. HMS cards are an important response to labour-life crime and unprofessional actors in order to ensure safe and serious conditions in Norwegian construction sites. Therefore, the government has already strengthened the HMS card scheme through several measures. The real-time control solution was fixed and established in 2016. The scheme allows HMS actors such as builder, protection agent and other local actors to check the validity of HMS cards. The same access also applies to supervisory authorities. The current solution involves a real-time control solution, informing stakeholders whether the HMS card is active and whether the activity continues to meet the registration requirements. The Labour Inspectorate has also intensified the control of HMS cards. In the event of a breach of law, supervision may be subject to imposition, periodic penalty payment or an infringement fee, and infringement of the regulation is also punishable by the Labour Environment Act. During the period 2015–2019, the Labour Inspectorate took 294 decisions on infringement fee for breach of the HMS building and site card regulations and provided 14 police reports on breaches of the legislation. That being said, we also share the concern that the HMS cards are today vulnerable, and that criminal actors have found loopholes that allow them to lure into Norwegian construction sites. These dirtholes are important to close. One of the challenges with today’s HMS card solution is that the real-time control solution is not perceived as real, as the validity has to be checked on its own website and it may take time to update data between the HMS card scheme and other public registers. The cards have also proved to be too easy to falsify, invalid cards can be used and there are challenges associated with the use of the HMS cards as ID cards. Therefore, it is important that it is taken into account, so that the HMS cards become more functional and work as intended. Government lots therefore stress in a note that the cards must be used in real time and that the validity must be automatically verifiable when the employee arrives at the workplace, by electronic reading, and that it is important to prevent the use of the card by persons other than those to whom it is issued. The cards must therefore contain a visible picture, name and date of birth. It is essential that cards can be linked to the right employee, to mention something. When we suggest that the matter is not adopted today, it is based on the fact that the government is working on this matter. From the government fraction in the committee, there is also a clear order in the comments, where we write that we look forward to the government putting this in place as soon as possible – and no later than the summer of 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1080	It is good that there seems to be cross-political agreement that a desired HMS card and that they should work best. We in the Workers' Party are also constantly looking for improvements to the systems that you have today, and we have both questions and suggestions to bring up improvements to the HMS card, but we have not seen that the government has shown any particular willingness to agree to them. The wishes we present are based on very specific experiences, including: from the Municipality of Oslo, that today’s transparency in the HMS card database should be extended to include personal ID numbers and images of the holders of the HMS cards. The reason for this is that we also want to strengthen the serious players in the construction sector. In this way, we follow up other suggestions that we have had, including: on the tightening of the rules on housing and more proposals to strengthen the serious organised working life of construction industries, inter alia, through: proposals for the establishment of a serious register containing the information required by the report Easy to be serious. The HMS card requirement in construction sites was first attached in 2007. Then it was the Stoltenberg II government that showed the will and desire to prioritize the serious, organized working life. It was a government that put forward proposals instead of what we are experiencing today, a government that is still in arrears, which increasingly has to be dragged to the Stortinget through representative proposals, and which increasingly says that this is something they are working on, without us being able to see concrete results from that work. The debate that we have today shows once again that there is a clear distinction between them and the opposition, which takes initiative and responsibility, an opposition which was in the process of tightening up the rules of residence, gathering into the requirement of fixed-term work, strengthening the Labour Inspectorate while giving the Labour Inspectorate a place and capacity to take over the unprofessional parts of the working life and to stop illegal hiring, and not least an opposition which is currently gathering on the proposal to strengthen the HMS card system. It is simply a matter of urgency to put in place a new HMS card system that displays real-time information and that can be controlled to a greater extent. It will be an important addition to the serious part of the construction industry. It will help the National Association of Construction and the Joint Union, which are among the most important in working life in the fight for a serious working life within its industries, and which is asking for the changes contained in this proposal and which the government then rejects. I finally take up proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1095	The representative of Hadia Tajik has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1100	The Centre Party has raised several important issues in this proposal for a representative relating to HMS cards. We are very much in agreement with both the challenge image being described and the need for change. There is little doubt that such cards can be misused today, for example. by falsifying or using the card as an ID card, by lending it to workers who do not have a valid card themselves, or by the expiry of the HMS card without revealing it when the worker arrives at the construction site. We have to get away with the crime of working life like this. The government has already implemented several measures to strengthen the HMS scheme, including: by establishing the real-time arrangements whereby the employer, the protection environment and other relevant persons and supervisory authorities are able to check the validity of the HMS card. In addition, the Labour Inspectorate has increased its efforts to combat short-term abuse and has given more instructions and police messages in the last few years. The HMS card must contain information to ensure that when the worker arrives at the construction site, he can verify his identity and validity. Therefore, we believe that it should contain images, name and date of birth. In addition, it must be possible to read from the card and get real real-time information when coming to the building site, to ensure that the person has legal access to the work place. Today, the system is not experienced properly. Proposal providers will go even further and create a public register containing information on the training provided by the individual employee. We don't think this is appropriate to solve the challenges we see related to the HMS cards. The training and competence required to perform different tasks must be assessed by the individual employer against the requirements set by the contractor of the job. For us, it's important to get cards in place that make it harder to run the crime of working life. It helps us to understand how these cards are designed and what information they should contain.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1113	The reason why the Central Party has presented this proposal is that there is an advocacy in the industry both on the employer’s side and on the employee’s side because there is no driver in the government – there is no driver in the government to solve this issue, which is incredibly important. The government is now showing some positive beats, but refuses all the time to go in with the necessary force needed to clean up. The current system has a number of problems: the cards are used as IDs, the cards are easy to falsify, it takes a long time to get the cards ready, one can work while the cards are being designed – one does not need to have cards, one can only say that one has applied for cards – and the employer does not withdraw the card after completion of the assignment. All of this is a matter with which the government has been familiar for a long, long time. What is needed is that we can get information in the card that is correct in real time, so that we can get a real-time check – that means now – when a person is checked whether the relationship is in order, to counter labour-life crime, including social dumping. What is proposed by the Centre Party and on which we – it is a pleasure – have been given the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party: ‘The Government has requested the Government to submit a request as soon as possible that, for construction sites, only one HMS card with a publicly controlled identity must be issued to all self-employed and wage earners, showing their main employer and their education. The card shall be registered in a central public database and shall allow public control authorities to connect information to other public registers in real time, cf. available under Norwegian law.’ But sail this proposal, which is just that a beg government to come back, the government parties can't be on it. I would like to underline once again what was the slogan of today's government parties during the red-green period: You, red-green – it was said – are not willing to move a comma here in the hall. The exact same thing is repeating itself now, sailing with a proposal that is open, and for which the government parties say that one has great respect and understanding. It should be possible to have a different culture, where one addresses matters if one is willing to do something about it, not just drag his legs, which creates great frustration in the construction industry, on the employer's side and on the employee's side. It's not reliable, if you want to clean up the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1131	In February this year, much of the Labour and Social Committee was on its way to Buskerud. Here we had very many good meetings, but one of the best meetings, I thought, was with the entrepreneur Haakon Tronrud, who is also the director of the NHO Viken Oslo. The Entrepreneur’s Association and the Land Association of Construction were also present at this meeting. They put forward a very good work that they themselves had developed, linked to the HMS card, or, more simply, a better system of HMS cards. I felt that there was great enthusiasm in the whole committee for the work they had done. The majority in the Committee, in a comment, call for several of the measures identified — and pointed out the need during the visit we had in Buskerud — to be implemented. The majority say in their comment that they expect a series of improvements to be made to the scheme and that it will be in place in a year. It is a pleasure that a good proposal from the Central Party can contribute to what we consider to be a positive development in the government party. And – to put the crown on the piece at the end – it also says in the plural comments from the government parties that they will not vote in favour of the proposal on the basis of their remark. You cannot give an opponent an opener say, only one indirectly. Furthermore, in addition to this: we would probably go a lot further in approaching the arrangements that were presented to the committee, and making it current nationally. But after all, the government part takes the hint and picks down low-hanging fruits, which are finished baked, raised and fried by business itself. We would like the government party to set up a full-scale national model of the systems that have been developed, for example. link to the Aa registry, QR code and the whole, which the government party does not mention in its note. It's going to be exciting to see what comes out of this, and what's the result next summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1142	Parts of the construction industry face challenges with unacceptable HMS conditions and different forms of work-life crime. Several measures are in place to improve the conditions of the construction industry, including the HMS card system. The obligation to hold HMS cards shall contribute to the clearing of such cards by making the issue of such cards conditional on the establishment being registered in specified public registers. The main purpose of the scheme is to ensure health, environment and safety at work. The requirement for HMS cards helps to provide a better overview of the actors and better control. The government has strengthened the HMS card scheme through several measures. In 2016, the regulatory real-time control solution was established. The solution allows the local HMS actors and the supervisory authorities to check the validity of the HMS cards. The term was changed from ID card to HMS card in 2015. The background was to give the cards a name that reflects as much as possible the function of the card. As also mentioned in the setting, the Labour Inspectorate has intensified the control of HMS cards. Infringement fee is actively used as an instrument and the Labour Inspectorate feels that this control effort has a good effect on the overall compliance with the obligation to carry HMS cards. As I also pointed out in my reply to the Committee, my general impression is that both the authorities and the industry operators believe that the HMS card scheme contributes positively. At the same time, it seems that the same actors also see weaknesses in the scheme. I therefore stated that there is a reason to look at the HMS card scheme. In this respect, I have noticed that the majority of the vacancy requests a system where the validity of the HMS card can be read electronically in real time when the employee arrives at the workplace. I want to take the initiative to investigate and put in place such a function, but I think it may also be relevant to make further assessments to improve the HMS card system even more.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1153	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1158	Part of the proposal is to make a national qualification register visible. It is inspired by the input to the Committee of the National Association of Construction, BNL, saying that competence must be part of what the HMS card shows. I notice that the majority in their comments write that they reject a national qualification register. They point out that it is the responsibility of employers to ensure that they are qualified. They point out that they have a responsibility to provide the qualifications they have. We note at the same time that the Council of State says something is going on, and something is going to look at, and something is going to come in 2020. So my question is simply: will this ‘any’ coming in 2020 also include a view of competence related to the HMS card, i.e. a national qualification register associated with the HMS card?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1168	This is a question that is really under another state council. The Minister of Knowledge has given feedback to the Committee at the point of the response given when we commented on the proposal. The Minister of Knowledge also raises a number of questions that should be addressed. The question is whether to register foreign education. Does this mean that you have to accept the foreign education first? Will the information submitted on competence be reliable? Among other things, I have have received feedback from industry actors saying that professional letters can be purchased on – I kept saying – the illegal market. In this case, the question will be: Will this type of registration in a card be the right information, or could it really be the wrong information and thus provide false security for what lies there? In case the Minister of Knowledge comes back to this. It's not under my jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1175	Then I rephrase my question: does the Council of State see the importance of systematics and visibility of the competence of employees to secure a serious and decent working life? How will the Council of State contribute to the type of systematic and visualisation of the competence of employees to build up during a serious working life?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1181	There is no doubt that skills are generally important in the workplace, both in order to ensure the quality of the services and the work carried out, and in order to ensure the seriousness of the work. Whether this should be recorded in an HMS card or otherwise is a big question. I believe the Minister of Knowledge raises important questions about how it might have to be done in connection with an HMS card, and not least about its relevance. It doesn't help to register skills if your skills are incorrect or you don't know the quality of the skills listed. It is also said in response to the committee that it is initially the responsibility of employees and employers to ensure that they have the overview. You can ask the question if you should also have it in an HMS card. I'm not sure about it because I'm not sure if the quality of it would be good enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1188	The government listens a lot to the NHO. The head of the NHO Viken Oslo is Haakon Tronrud, who has done an exemplary job of getting ahead in the matter. He is impatient and one of the inspirations of the Center Party in the matter. The councils are talking about it positively and they're saying to look at it more closely. I have two questions: In the case of real-time – when does the government aim to provide a card that can record information in real-time, and that can thus be verified? Secondly, in terms of qualifications, government parties say they don't see the need for it. This indicates that you don't see it as important. But the Council of State says it's hard to control. Could not an alternative be that what is introduced by qualifications is the employee's responsibility to enter and that it is there? This means that at least the employee’s own assessment of the theoretical/practical qualifications he/she has to fill the job is presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1193	Let me first just say that there's real-time information in the HMS card today, but there's a slightly different way to check it out. You can't log into the workplace and get it up there. But there's real-time information on the map today. What is now to be investigated is whether you can find out in a different and more effective way when you arrive at the construction site. That's what I'm going to figure out and get done. I'm aiming to do it in 2020. If the purpose of recording competence is that what is on the card should be real – that it should be correct and an insurance policy, a kind of guarantee, that he can carry out what is on the card that he should be able to perform – it is important that the information that is there is correct. As I said in my previous answer: The Minister of Knowledge has asked a number of questions and raised a number of issues related to this, both in terms of foreign education and its recognition. I have even heard about false letters in circulation, and this is also an important issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1200	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1218	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, the exchange of lines be given of up to five lines, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1227	We have discussed a proposal by Per Olaf Lundtägen, Geir Adelsten Iversen and Kjersti Toppe on the automatic generalisation of payroll in collective agreements which have a lower salary than 80 pst. of the average industrial worker’s wage. During the discussion, the representative has received two written submissions, one from the NHO and one from the LO. The proposal deals with an important thematic theme and an entirely central theme of Norwegian employment policy, i.e. wage fixing. The Committee, perhaps with the exception of the Centre Party, agrees that this proposal goes quite far beyond what is currently practice in Norwegian wage formation. In addition to that, I think we have a slightly different approach to the problem, and I want to promote our own view of the matter. We face considerable challenges when it comes to some industries in this country. The people who tend most here to land, withdraw, while the people who care least are still. Those who think the least have experienced a real wage drop in the last few years. This is unfair, and in SV we do everything we can to stop this development. I choose to look at the intention of the representative proposal as good, despite some quite concerned, not to say negative, feedback from the social partners. The centre party has, after all, some good arguments in its comments. It is a proposal to secure a certain salary level for those who work at low wages. I believe that the general government must be strengthened. It's important, and that's right, but this is not the way to go. Although the proposal has a good intention, it is not the medicine that is proposed, good, I think. It's not that we here in this room can decide on the salary of the individual groups in society. SV and I believe that public administration is a very important tool to prevent social dumping, and last year it is a proposal to strengthen the system, but even this system is prejudicing itself on a trust relationship with and between the social partners that I feel that the proposers have not taken full advantage of. I would like to underline the importance of a working life with safe frameworks, co-destination and tripartite cooperation. The importance of the Norwegian model in terms of tripartite cooperation between employees, employers and the state has contributed to giving us a better working life for many years. Today, extensive evidence is required for the adoption of a decision on public administration, and it is high time to take action to improve this scheme, such as: simplify the documentation requirements, reverse evidence and extend the period of authorisation. Regeninga Solberg has weakened the Norwegian working life model with repeated attacks on the work environment laws, while the government has voted against good proposals for important improvements, including: of the laws of general government. The LO is strongly opposed to the proposal put forward by the Centre Party. When employees think that this is an inappropriate or good measure, we have to listen carefully to it. SV, together with the Labour Party, makes one proposal in this case: ‘The government is asked to make proposals to improve the public service regime and to make it easier to use by simplifying the documentation requirement.’ I include the proposal from SV and the Working Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1255	The representative Solfrid Lerbrück then mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1260	First: Thanks to the case rapporteur for a good work on the matter and a description of the previous post that the Labour Party fully supports. The centre party calls for a change in the law to automatically generalise the wage provisions of collective agreements with a pay level of less than 80 pst. of average wages and salaries of industrial workers. They are not asking us to investigate the matter, they are not asking for an assessment. No, they ask the government to promote the necessary legislative changes that would result in a major change in how we organise employment in Norway. I must almost say that I envy this slippery safety. Those who represent the employees in Norway are opposed to saying that this would clearly violate the Norwegian model of working life. Therefore, it is nice that a jumper directly on a proposal, which certainly has good intentions, without a hint of anchoring in the broad associations that organise the workers in Norway. Public education is a debated but very important tool in the fight against social dumping. The red-green lots are grouped together by the requirement for a strengthened public service act. The documentation requirements need to be simplified and the time period extended. The reason why the Public Service Act needs to be strengthened is that we see alarming signs in Norwegian working life. The low-paid groups fall away — the ones at the wage and salary levels withdraw. The right-wing government has weakened the Working Environment Act and is voting against proposals for an improved Public Service Act. The Workers' Party and SV, in their comments, refer to the examination of draft representatives 199 S for 2017-2018, where the majority, on a proposal from the Christian People's Party, decided to ask the government to present a case with an evaluation of the public service regime and to consider proposing improvements to this scheme. This decision has not been followed up, and we ask the government to follow the will of the Storting quickly. In the Norwegian labour market, the parties have a strong influence on pay and working conditions through negotiations. The Labour Party does not represent a labour policy where everything is adopted in the Stortinget. The proposal we are now debating is without doubt weakening the responsibility of the parties in the formation of wages. The sharing of responsibilities between the parties and the authorities will be distorted, with short-term and not least long-term consequences we do not know anything about. The fight against social dumping and labour crime requires a strong labour-environment law, reinforced labour supervision, a high level of trust and organisation. Proposals for automatic publication of collective bargaining agreements are not on my list of ingredients in this fight. Wages and salaries in Norway vary greatly from industry to industry. In some places, there are high levels of pay in the central tariff agreements, with little or no local supplements. At other places, the wage level of the tariff agreement is low, but there are solid local supplements. The rate of pay in tariff agreements is therefore a poor indicator of the need for public disclosure. The proposal of the Centre Party today is not a proposal for a statutory minimum wage in Norway, such as: The party of progress and the Left is calling for it, but it is a slip in that direction. That's why we have to be careful, even though the proposals of the Senter Party are not going the same way. The experience from countries with a minimum wage is that it has been paid in many sectors. It removes the influence of the parties in the world of work, with the result that fewer and fewer people organise themselves in a trade union — which in turn provides a more unsafe working life. The government felt the need to recognise the unorganised working life of its government platform. The introduction of minimum wages is the ultimate way not only to recognise but also to promote an unorganised working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1279	The general public service is an important measure against social dumping and labour-life crime. Public service shall ensure that non-resident workers are paid and worked conditions equivalent to those of Norwegian workers and facilitate fair competition. At the same time, it is important to point out that public service is a direct intervention in wage formation and departs from the fundamental principle of our working life model that wage determination is the domain of the parties. The Norwegian wage formation model is based on the need to adapt wages to the competitive sector over time. It is ensured that areas of agreement with major elements of competitive activities first conclude agreements and that these act as a norm in other areas of the agreement. The collective agreements which form the basis of wage formation are based on negotiations between the social partners. It is a model that ensures that the social partners have a common understanding of the economic situation, and thus also have a common responsibility to strike a fair balance between good pay and working conditions on the one hand and the necessary flexibility and competitiveness on the other. Since the public service scheme is a direct intervention in this free formation of wages, it is an instrument of caution. It should not be too easy to make use of public disclosure, which is also underlined by the preparatory work of the law. Public service shall not be used to a greater extent than is necessary to fulfil the purpose of the law. The scheme shall not be used to provide collective bargaining agreements in general, and great emphasis must be placed on avoiding unintended effects on the labour market and ensuring the proper functioning of wages and salaries, which may support under-employment and low unemployment over time. Public education has also been increasingly used in recent years. It now applies to public services regulations in nine different industries. The development of the use of the public sector and the extent of the public sector we have today suggests, in our view, that the scheme provides a fair balance between the different considerations. We cannot therefore see that there is a need to make it easier to use the public service than today, as the Workers' Party and the SV call for. The general public service system has a broad scope. There is reason to believe that a significant reason for this is precisely that it is based on the initiative of the parties. Public disclosure requires that an employee's or employer's organisation that is a party to the contract has the right of cancellation and with the necessary documentation. A system of automatic publication, as proposed by the representative, will therefore constitute a serious breach of basic principles in the formation of Norwegian salaries. There will be a movement away from voluntary coordination between the parties and thus also a risk of distorting the broad scope of the generalisation enjoyed by the social partners today. Although the parties may have differing views on some aspects of the arrangement today, it is operating fairly well in practice. In order to obtain an application dealt with in the subject-matter of the Tariff, it is sufficient that there is reason to believe that conditions for public service are met. Simplifications have also been made to make it considerably easier to demonstrate the need now than at the time of the introduction of the scheme. It is therefore difficult to see the need to amend this mechanism, which appears to be functioning fairly well, and which ensures a good balance between the interests of the parties today – and at least not in the direction that this proposal for a representative addresses.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1302	Everyone knows that it is important to ensure a decent salary level for those who work in Norway. That also shows the debate so far. The question is what means should be used to ensure that no one is exploited or exposed, for example: social dumping. Today, as many have been involved, the formation of wages between the parties, and this has been an important principle for a long time. The proposal of the Centre Party may be understood in such a way that one no longer trusts the Norwegian model. However, I choose to believe that the proposal is not about it, but an eagerness to secure as much as possible a minimum wage level. The intention is good, but the solution proposed by automatic generalization is not very good. Such a proposal is too intrusive, does not create room for real negotiations, nor does it take into account relationships in companies not bound by the collective agreement. For the Progress Party, the answer could have been a national minimum wage if the space for action to secure real negotiations between the parties was preserved. This way, you will also cover the unorganized working life. Today, it is the parties themselves who are negotiating pay terms, and precisely this model has been set as an important premise for the success of Norwegian working life, among others. by the proposers at several intervals. In addition, the tariff heading, which has also been mentioned by many, may adopt general government, but in accordance with the requirements of either employers’ or employers’ organisations. Publicity is a powerful tool that should be used with caution. The system has just been opened up by the parties because the initiative is from the parties themselves. That's the way it should be.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1313	The centre part works on a broad front to get a more well-organized working life. This is one of several proposals that we are making that contribute to it. We have good contact with people in the workplace, the trade unions and employers, and it's unisoned that we can't have it the way it is today. A well-organised work life is a prerequisite for a safe family life. Right is towards, not surprising. For the first time, the party to the progress has its own comment on the matter. I will give tribute to the Party of Advancement for the fact that they dare to have their own comment outside the government parties. That's good. Their proposal is the national minimum wage for all. It's not the Central Party's policy; I want to underline it. There is talk of whether the Central Party has confidence in the Norwegian model. Yes, we do, but what's happening today is that the Norwegian model is slowly being demolished, but surely it's being demolished. What's doing that? Well, the Norwegian model assumes that the Stortinget has the control of the labour market, and it does not have one when one has free labour immigration from EEA countries outside the Nordic region. I would ask this room to take over that one is in a completely new situation. One no longer has control on the labour market in Norway because one has free immigration. That is why we got the Public Service Act with effect from 1 January 1994. The parties saw that it was necessary. There has been a general break-up of the Public Procurement Act and that it works, if it is a breach of what was the Norwegian model, for the Norwegian model was based on national labour market governance through labour immigration regulation. We are proposing to go further in the public service because there are a number of subjects in the private service sector where there is a very low level of organisation, maybe 20-25 pst., and where it is important that we ensure that the pay conditions for those who work in these fields are such that one cannot undermine the tariff agreement that the few organized things to provide in the labour market we have. We are therefore promoting the proposal and it is a complement to today's law. The proposal does not replace the current possibilities for collective bargaining to take decisions on public procurement, but will ensure the effective publication of remuneration provisions in several agreements. The representative's proposal does not interfere with the right to negotiate or to pay relative wages, as the parties can agree as low wages as they like within their territory. The point of the proposal is that in the tariff areas where agreed wages are low – less than 80 pst. of average wages and salaries of industrial workers – no one shall earn less than the applicable collective agreements. This will benefit both Norwegian and non-resident workers in unorganised enterprises and it protects tariff-bound enterprises from devastating low-wage competition from unorganised enterprises. It's not least important. The proposal will therefore achieve more objectives. Firstly, a minimum wage level is ensured in several industries, which will benefit both Norwegian and foreign workers in unorganised enterprises. Secondly, competition between tariff-linked enterprises and unorganised enterprises is less characterised by low-wage competition. Thirdly, the public service regime becomes more effective. It is important, because many people have asked for the public service to be improved. If the Workers' Party and SV could agree to a proposal that one should ask the government to implement such an arrangement, the Centre Party would be involved. We believe that the public service arrangement is such an important matter. It's a strong demand, not least from LO, to make it simpler and better, and that's why we've come up with the proposal. In the end, I just want to say that, in the view of the Centre Party, social dumping is not only to be stopped at the border, but also within the country. So here we have two measures. Stopping it at the border means moving from free labour to regulated labour immigration. Stopping social dumping within the country involves, inter alia: that the public utility institution applies to several agreements in order to reduce the number of loopholes. I'm addressing the proposal from the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1336	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1342	Public disclosure shall ensure equal pay and working conditions for workers and facilitate fair competition. At the same time, the measure directly intervenes in wage formation and departs from the basic principle of our working life model that wage fixing is the domain of the parties. Therefore, it should not be too easy to make use of public disclosure, which is also underlined by the preparatory work of the law. Public service shall not be used to a greater extent than is necessary to fulfil the purpose of the law. The scheme shall not be used to provide collective bargaining agreements in general. Particular attention needs to be paid to avoiding unintended effects on the labour market and to ensuring the proper functioning of wages and salaries that can support under-employment and low unemployment over time. That is also the reason why a public service decision is limited in time. It ensures that a reassessment of the need is made at regular intervals, so that public disclosure takes place where it is intended. Decisions on disclosure are based on the initiative of the parties. The threshold for handling a case is not high. There has been a gradual development, both in legislation and in practice, towards a more modest documentation requirement. I find it difficult to see that the documentation requirement now constitutes an obstacle to getting through well-founded requests. According to the law, it is sufficient to provide evidence to justify the belief that conditions for publication are met. It has not been found that the subject-matter of the Tariff has refused to take a case for a case to be dealt with because of a lack of evidence. When we look at developments in the use of publishing and the extent of the public sector we have today, I see that with the current system there is a reasonable balance between the different considerations. The number of public service decisions has increased and public service is also in force in sectors which have traditionally had low tariff coverage. As I understand the proposal of the representatives, public disclosure will be possible without making concrete assessments of pay and working conditions. Public service shall, on the other hand, depend on the level of wages and salaries of enterprises subject to tariffs. It will be a little targeted way to tackle problems with poor pay and working conditions outside of organised life. The proposal will lead to a strong intervention in the formation of wages and salaries, and it will involve a breach of a well-integrated division of responsibilities between the social partners and the authorities. I note that a large majority of the committee supports my view. It is also unclear how automatic publication will affect the level of organisation of employees and employers and the opening-up of the scheme and collective bargaining agreements. The Norwegian model is based on tariff agreements and strong organisations. There is always reason to monitor developments and assess the scheme in the light of up-to-date information, but any legislative change should only be made after a thorough assessment and based on knowledge of the functioning of the scheme. I want to start a new evaluation of the public service scheme in 2019. The Ministry has recently launched a multi-annual project to provide this basis for an in-depth assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1364	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1369	There is, of course, a touching consensus in the Chamber today that the public service is a very important tool in the fight for social work and against social dumping. That's why it's very interesting to know what the government's public service policy is, such an important system. I've been looking at the government platforms from the last few years, both the Granavolden platform and the Jeløya platform, and I don't find anything about the generalization system there. So next week it is a year since the Stortinget on a proposal from the Christian People's Party before they joined the government, decided that one should present a case to the Stortinget for an evaluation of the public service arrangement, and that has not been done. The Council of State now stated in its statement that this evaluation will start in 2019. Does this mean that it took over a year from the decision of the Storting until the evaluation of the public service arrangement is under way?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1374	The government is going to follow up what the Storting has decided on public disclosure, and as I said in my post, we have also started a work to evaluate the scheme, and it is going to lay the foundation for a matter that we can put forward. The Government is committed to maintaining the public service. We believe that this is an important measure. At the same time, there are also some issues of public disclosure, precisely because it intervenes in what is traditionally the responsibility of the parties. But we see that it is an important tool to ensure serious working conditions and avoid social dumping in industries where we have seen progress in the past. Then there have also been evaluations earlier of the public service scheme, which shows that it works mainly well. We also see through practice that it is not difficult today to publish all or part of collective agreements when the parties take the initiative themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1383	Thanks for the answer. What we're discussing today is the automatic publication of tariff agreements, which a broad majority of people disagree with. For the Labour Party, we believe that it is not a minimum wage, but a slip towards it. On the other hand, those who call for a statutory minimum wage in Norway are the Progress Party, one of the government parties, which, in its observations, believes that a solution can be to pay a national minimum wage for all. Fafo, among other things, has looked at different experiences with statutory minimum pay in Europe and finds that it is often paid in several industries, rather than the payroll floor, which was the intention. Is it relevant for the government to pay a national minimum wage for Norway, as the Progress Party referred to in its comments?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1390	My task is to implement as much as possible of the government's policy laid down in the government platform, and the government platform does not say that one should investigate this. It is right – and I share the Knutsen assessment – that automatic public disclosure is a slip in the direction of minimum wages, for which this Council of State does not want to take the initiative. It is not on the platform either – ergo we will not take the initiative either.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1395	I hereby agree that public service is involved in the formation of wages, but why did we get public service? Why did there agree on that? Yes, because from 1 January 1994 there was free labour immigration, and then it was not possible to continue the Norwegian model at that point. One had to intervene in another way to prevent the worst rashes. We got the first public service in 2003, and we got several people afterwards, because then we got an offer shock into the Norwegian economy as a result of Eastern Europe joining the EEA. Public education is not the main solution of the Centre Party, but it is not, of course, a pragmatic way of dealing with the fact that more subjects are being pressured into pay terms as a result of the fact that the supply of labour is much greater than demand. However, publicisation results in one avoiding social dumping, and a getting fair relationship between the different companies. My question is, will the Council of States facilitate today's publicisation?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1402	As I said in my main post, I can't see the need to make any simplifications. It is now easy to generalise when the parties initiate it – the threshold is not high, the documentation requirement is not large. Nor has it been rejected, so I cannot see that there is any need to make it easier – simply because it is already easy today. There is also a difference between the parties themselves taking the initiative in public procurement and the adoption by the Storting of an automatic publication. It is a much, much greater intervention in the responsibility of the parties and in the formation of wages that the Storting adopts what is going a long way towards a minimum wage, than that the parties themselves take the initiative in doing so.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1409	The Council of State said in its statement that a public service was not a general distribution of the collective bargaining agreement. That's wrong. The whole point of publication is — in the case of publication of pay — that it is valid for everyone in that subject. The Council of State further stated that the proposal was not a concrete assessment. Well, we're just saying that one looks at the salary of the collective agreement in terms of average wages and salaries for industrial workers, and that is a concrete assessment. But as the Council of State has now expressed itself, and when we know the views of the Landsorganisation, that means that the government will be positive that more subjects will be publicised if, for example, they are. Is the country organisation asking for new subjects to be publicised, subjects in the private service sector that are currently low?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1416	The representative Lundtigen gives a close impression that the government is in a minority on this issue – it is not, it is the representative Lundtigen who is in a minority on this issue. Everyone else disagrees with the proposal that has been put forward, and with good reason, for example. because there is a significant change in the way the Norwegian model is to function, inter alia. the responsibility of the parties to negotiate wages and salaries at their place of employment. It is not Stortingen’s responsibility to do so, unless you want to adopt a minimum wage in Norway. This would be a major fundamental difference in change in what is today. I do not feel that there are those who are in a minority now – that is the representative of Lundtigen. It's, as I've said several times, easy to generalize. It is the parties themselves that can take the initiative to mention that they wish to make public. There are not large demands to do so, the threshold is not very high, and the denominator also does not reject the wish to publish. It should be initiated by the parties if they wish to make public all or part of their collective bargaining agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1423	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1431	Differences in Norway are increasing, and an important reason for this is that there is pressure on pay and working conditions for a number of workers in Norway, not least those working in practical occupations. Under today's government, real wages have been reduced for an estimated 30 pst. by employees. According to SSB figures, within 80 professions, there is an average wage below 80 pst. of the wages and salaries of industrial workers. What you see today is a consequence that one no longer has the same popular government over the labour market as one had before. There is a consequence of having had unregulated labour immigration from the EEA territory, an area with more than half a billion people and with very different pay and working conditions among those coming from it. New measures are therefore needed. The centre party believes that it would make sense to implement measures on a broad front. We believe that there must be popular governance of the labour market, and we believe that one must regulate labour immigration. But we also believe that one, within the framework of today's, and within the majority that one has today, who does not want to do anything with the external framework, must at least take care to ensure the formation of wages in a better way than one does today. One speaks of public service, and that it will lead to a national minimum wage: public service in itself and the public service that one has today means that one receives a minimum wage for those covered by public service – not by the fact that there is a minimum political wage, but by ensuring that it is the wage that arises in a collective agreement, which is applicable to all in the industry and the area. It's the same principle as in the proposal that the Central Party is promoting today, but we want to expand the public service institution. For those sectors which have average wages and salaries in their negotiated agreements which are less than 80 pst. of the wages and salaries of industrial workers, a public service shall be provided. One shall not, at Stortinget, determine what is to be the salary, but the level of remuneration resulting from the collective bargaining agreements shall be made public. There will be an important contribution to reducing differences in Norway and ensuring pay and working conditions and more organised working life. One will facilitate the improvement of competition in the provision of public services in those professions by the serious enterprises, which effectively manage their employees and which have an orderly relationship.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1444	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1460	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1469	We are going to debate a proposition on the amendment of Section 6 of the Transport Act, which means the liberalisation of today's express bus policy. What is suggested is that the Ministry may provide for a rule that the authorisation for scheduled passenger services by motor vehicles is not to be tested when the route is over a certain length specified by the Ministry. The existing proposal implies that the length of routes not to be tested shall not be less than 80 km. The government thinks it's an advantage that it's an objective criterion, and so it's counting in the number of kilometers. It determines whether a route is required to be tested, rather than a route crossing a county boundary, which is currently in force. The Committee has now noted that all counties are critical of introducing a limit of less than 100 km for testing needs, and a majority of counties believe that the present system should be continued. The arguments put forward are quite easy to understand. They are afraid that the establishment of several commercial bus routes will have a negative impact on the performance of routes with government grants. The government does not support this assessment and considers that such express bus lines are to a small extent competitors of local public transport. It is also proposed that some forms of regular services should not be tested independently of the length of the route. It is proposed that the Ministry should define the types of regular services at that time, but explicit reference is made to routes that carry passengers to and from aerodromes, for example. We also note that there are divergent views on the proposal between the NHO and a majority of county councils, which favour such a change, while the Professional Transport Association, Telemark, Hordaland and Nordland counties believe that the current system of need testing should be maintained. As spokesman for the SV's position, I would also like to add that the European Commission has put forward proposals for the free establishment of express routes over 100 km in the air. This government once again wants to be the best student in the class when the right of establishment is proposed for routes over 80 km. That's not the first time this is happening. Our right-wing government prefers to start earlier than the EU requires in terms of both liberalisation and privatisation. I guess it's enough to mention the railway reform. Then we have some objections and some concerns about this, and I'll come back to that in a later article. I then addressed the proposal submitted by SV together with the Workers' Party and the Centre's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1488	The representative Arne Nävra has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1493	The term ‘express bus’ may have different contents. The proposal limits express buses to commercial long-distance services, which are not initially granted grants or exclusive public service rights. Express buses and air buses are market-based collective services without government subsidies. The buses run over longer fryings and bind regions and cities together, either as the only cross-country offer in the district or as an important complement to the train. This flexible and cost-effective bus offer is in practice financed through ticket receipts from travellers. Developments in the commercial bus market have been negative in recent years. The industry is experiencing increased competition both from an improved train offer and from the regional collective offer that does not allow express buses to carry passengers within the county border. The basis for the legislative proposal is the implementation of the regional reform. According to the law in force, the crossing of county borders is a decisive criterion for the granting of permits to commercial routes. It is worth noting that the county authorities remain the authority to authorise routes within the county and that the Ministry of Transport becomes the authority to authorise routes crossing county boundaries. Merging of two or more counties means that the merged counties will cover larger geographical areas than today. This may mean that the requirement of cross-border traffic can put an end to several express bus routes and further weaken the space of express buses in public transport. There has been a discussion about where you would set a lower limit on the ability of express buses to bring customers. Formally, this refers to the minimum limit on the time when the requirement for rights is to apply. In the draft consultation, the government proposed 50 km. The Ministry of Transport's proposal for legislative change was sent to the hearing on 15 October 2018. It has been well received by the industry. Some states have been concerned that express buses can reduce the profitability of local buses by taking part of the customer base. The Ministry has met this challenge in the draft law and has proposed 80 km as a lower limit. Another question is collective agreements. The majority refers to the fact that the Public Procurement Act opens the way for collective bargaining agreements to be published in all sectors when the conditions exist. It is therefore not natural for a parallel system of publication to be established in the Professional Transport Act. Finally, the opposition opposes the amendment of the law. I find that they are too express buses, would like to help subsidize social discounts, but they should not bring passengers. Understand the one who can.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1508	Yesterday we had an ideological debate about the importance of competition, or the raw market forces, as SV called it. This is also a matter of competition, competition to give people the most – customers and passengers – a better collective offer. Then this is ideologically interesting. The left side, at least SV, the Workers' Party and the Center Party, for the time being, but certainly also the Environment Party, the Greens and the Reds, will probably vote against. The ideology of these parties stands in the way of reason in order to provide a better collective offer to the Norwegian people. Simplification and red tape, to which we are now adding, will contribute to greater flexibility for operators who will start commercial bus routes. The threshold for establishing itself will be reduced or removed, and these changes, or increased liberalisation as the case-rapporteur mentioned earlier, will probably lead to increased profitability in the industry. For customers, this will undoubtedly lead to a better offer, especially a better collective offer for longer distances. It can also provide better local collective services by allowing commercial routes over 80 km to carry passengers along the way, even on short distances locally. Here we get a win-win situation. We get a better collective offer, without spending most of our taxes. Then it is absolutely incredible that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, SV and probably the others on the left side are negative to a better collective offer. This is positive. They receive no State aid, and there is no subsidy, as otherwise unprofitable local public transport receives – a massive subsidy. Here it's not about anything. It's just about the positive goodwill of political authorities, and it's making the government of the day want to clean up. It's a little special when you're standing in the bus stop waiting for the bus, and then there's an express bus driving past the station. You stand there and are not allowed to go on the bus, because the bus is not allowed to stop and take you with you. Or vice versa; if you sit on the bus, it won't be allowed to stop and let you off, even if it runs past where you're going. I think that's special, and we're clearing it up now. As I interpret SV, they would change the limit and increase it from 80 km, and maybe they'd rather have it even longer than 100 km. But if these changed boundaries were to be the topic, it should not be increasing the limit, but reducing it. Anyway, we feel this is positive, this is good, and it's going to provide a better collective offer for the Norwegian people.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1531	Unprofitable public transport? Yes, there may be a lot of people out in the districts where there are relatively little people. But I would think that part of the collective effort around the big cities has also cost money. It's worth noting. Need tests do not have to say no either. I look at needs testing as part of the coordination between what the express bus offer provides and what the local and regional collective offer provides. The background for the submission is the implementation of the regional reform. According to the law in force, the crossing of county borders is a decisive criterion for the granting of permits to commercial routes. Merging of two or more counties means that the merged counties will cover larger geographical areas than today. We're against larger and more inconspicuous counties, which most people probably have brought with them. In any case, this involves the liberalisation of existing express policies and is not seen in the context of existing local and regional offers. As stated earlier, the European Commission has put forward a proposal for the free establishment of express bus routes over 100 km in the air. We therefore see further liberalisation here. A number of consultation bodies have been sceptical and wish to have an opportunity to coordinate the provision of collective services in the districts in particular. We believe that the express bus routes play a very important role in the overall collective offer, but that they must be seen in conjunction with other state and county collective services. The central party shares the concerns of the county councils that a more liberal regulatory framework for the establishment of the routes could go beyond the county offer, and that someone would then have the opportunity to come in and foam the cream. It will also provide a more fragmented and incoherent route offer, and a restriction of the need test will make the operation of public transport more expensive for county municipalities. To make it clear, we're going to go against this bill. We also refer to Document 8:61 S for 2018–2019, from the Center Party, about a better and fairer express offer throughout the country. We suggested there that there should be a compensation scheme for social discounts on express buses. All social discounts to children, students and the elderly, i.e. honey, must be covered by the companies themselves, while the state pays the NSB discounts. This costs the commercial buses – the companies – approx. One hundred and seventy-five million. kr per year. We have wondered and asked repeatedly: why does harmonisation between trains and express buses go against social discounts?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1540	The left welcomes almost all of the new public transport solutions, because then you are constantly given an alternative to driving a car. That's what's mostly the alternative around the country, especially when we start to compare with express buses. So here we're going to put ourselves on a line with a distance of 80 kilometers before we can construct a path. I think it might be a reasonable distance of miles as I know the country, also considering people's travel habits. In addition, we think that these paths become very popular when we get them even better adapted to where the needs are greater. When we created the express bus, we initially saw that it was a real tree. There was a lot of establishment, it became a very good offer for many. I remember myself that we had no special offer between, for example. Trondheim and Bergen. Then we had to run about Oslo. But then the bus came and drove down the beautiful counties of More and Romsdal and Sogn and Fjordane, and it became a great offer for everyone who frequented that route. Then the offer has clearly been reduced somewhat, and that is the competitive situation in all markets. We must be able to bear that. But at the same time, we have to expect a new growth in express buses, and that's what we're adding up to. For everyone in Norway, it really deserves to be offered a public transport solution in addition to driving a car. So this we welcome and hope both that it will be used and that there will be many new paths.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1551	The express buses play a very important role in the overall collective provision in Norway. What characterises the express buses is that there are collective services that go without public support. So I was a little surprised, a little surprised when Jon Gunnes talked about creating express buses. The express bus routes establish themselves, without the public establishing a route offer. It is important to see the total express bus offer in the collective offer, both that operated by the county municipalities and that operated by the state, for example. the railway offer. I think I have previously talked about that some of the things I look back on with the greatest joy is that in 1997 I was able to help modernise the express bus code in Norway, which led to a large increase in the express bus offer at the end of the 1990s and beyond the 2000s. Combined with the opening of the new main airport at Gardermoen in 1998, which was coordinated with many of the express bus routes, this led to a large increase in express bus routes. So we know the story, that in the last few years, several of the paths have worn out, and several of the paths have been shut down. We've discussed that before. Among other things, the extension of rail services in the East is one of the reasons for this. It is not correct, as Nils Aage Igstad said, that the opposition believes that the express buses should not pick up passengers. Of course we don't mean that. The express buses should take passengers up as just that, and they play a very important role. But we are opposed to the liberalisation that is now taking place. Yes, Johnsen, it's a liberalisation. It even states in the proposition that there is a liberalisation of the legislation, so there is basically nothing to discuss. It is worth noting that most municipalities are opposed to liberalisation. Also important trade unions and others, e.g. The collective transport association, which is an association of many in the public sector, is opposed to liberalisation. In particular, I think the Committee's opinion has been received from the Nordland County Municipality, points this out in a very good way. There is evidence that, for example: in the summer, there are many tourists and others who are using the municipal collective offer, and they are now afraid, with the liberalisation of the legislation, that they will lose those passengers, that they will instead move to express bus routes that are humming the flow of the market.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1564	When you hear the opposition today, you can get the impression that this is a difficult thing. This is a very simple matter. This is a matter of how to expand and improve collective provision, and how different parts of the market can take their place in it. The government is investing in the development of collective provision – with hundreds of train departures only in and out of Oslo every day now compared to 2013. One of the major initiatives in the 2019 Transport Budget is to contribute to the provision of collective services in major cities in order to address and improve the everyday challenges for people. But what's amazing about the opposition today, which otherwise speaks very hot for collective alternatives to the private car, is that as long as the collective offer is profitable, as long as people are willing to pay for it because it goes as quickly and efficiently and maybe is more comfortable than if you have to run the car yourself to work, then a cross a county line to make it work. Once again choose the left side of Norwegian policy to keep the monopoly rather than to keep the passengers. It's almost impossible to understand that a good thing to do at a time when there's more collective supply we need, especially in the press areas where there's a lot of people, and therefore a commercial basis also to save space in land policy. SV should pay tribute to this proposal because they will meet very much of what they normally argue for. But this was, of course, too difficult – because it is possible for someone to spend money. Yes, it's possible for people to spend money transporting other people around because they have a need, but SV does mean that a free-capacity bus should run past the passengers standing on the bus stop and that way, that the bus should not stop until he has crossed the county border. There is almost an absurd situation to see: that passengers are standing with their thumbs on the roadside, waiting for a bus, the bus is coming, but he is not allowed to stop and pick up passengers. So it's the SVs and the Workers' Party's collective offer for the future – a collective offer that passengers don't have. For this reason, I am pleased that the majority once again gather on forward-looking solutions that strengthen collective provision, which increase the basis for commercial bus routes, and which lay the basis for more people to choose to travel collectively in the future. That is what is driving our collective supply in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1578	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1583	I referred to Document 8:61 S for 2018–2019 from the Senterpartiet, about a better and fairer express offer throughout the country that we have treated before. We suggested that we should have a compensation scheme for social discounts on express buses, because we know that they are struggling, and that the economy has become worse. All social discounts – for children, students and the elderly – must be covered by the companies themselves, while when you are betting on trains, and it is not that trains are all places in the country, you get to cover these costs. Why couldn't the government, as we requested, come back to Stortinget in an appropriate way with a case that improves the framework conditions for the commercial bus transport that runs over long distances?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1590	This is quite unlikely. The centre party will grant discounts to passengers who are not allowed to board the bus because the bus has not crossed a county limit. That's what's absurd in the opposition's approach to this. They want to give discounts to passengers who are not allowed to go on the bus. There is a policy that is completely unrooted in reality, and that's why we're busy getting the buses filled up when they first run. It improves the economy of the companies, and it allows companies to discount if they want to. They can choose price structures other than those they have traditionally had – because they can get more passengers. But the passengers you want to discount a vote on the Center Party, the Workers' Party or SV in the future are the passengers who are not allowed to board the bus. It's a policy for the past, not for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1595	You didn't answer the question; I've asked you that before, too. It's like this, and the majority of people in the hall have said, that the commercial bus market has evolved negatively in recent years. In 2007, the number of express bus travelers was about 10 million compared to 6 million in 2016. The reason for this is strong competition from other carriers. That's what's described here. It will in practice mean a regional collective offer and in some parts of the country trains, and that is what competes with the express buses. This has led to fewer routes and more expensive tickets and is one of the reasons why people don't use the express bus. It is also important to specify that many places are express bus's only option. Why does the Council of State wish to liberalise the legislation which seems to lead to less competition from local and regional offers, while the Council of State does not compensate for social discounts for passengers on express buses in the same way as for train passengers? Try to answer that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1604	The President will point out that the Chamber does not address each other in du form, but uses the name that is parliamentaryly correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1609	The Central Party representative described here is a situation in which there is a lack of supply in the express bus market. In other words, setting up collective services is not commercially viable to the extent that it has been. The answer to the Central Party is that then we continue as before, while my answer is that then we dissolve in the regulations, so that one gets the opportunity to accommodate several passengers, which means that one gets to create a bid not only across the county border, but also internally, for example. in a long-distance country such as Oppland, Hedmark or Nordland, for that part – or in my own home country of More and Romsdal. It's more than enough to get commercial express bus routes, but they haven't been allowed because they didn't cross a border. We lay the foundation that it is commercially possible to create routes that can not only replace other collective services, but the private car of people. The fact that the Center Party is against it really surprises me.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1616	We commended the Minister of Transport when he took over the job, because he contributed to a serious and serious debate in Stortinget, but after hearing the Minister of Transport lately, I really start to wonder what is going on. The wife of the railing and the wife of the innocuous! In fact, I am uncertain whether the Minister for Transport has read the committee position. I'm actually not sure if the Minister for Transport has read his own proposition, because he's talking about something quite different than that. He only raids with the opposition and calls it absurd, what the opposition means. What kind of debate is this? I understand that the desperation is breaking down in the Progress Party, but please don't drag it into the staging room. The opposition is of the same opinion as the vast majority of municipalities, the same as the Collective Traffic Association, which is the umbrella organisation of collective undertakings. Does the Minister for Transport think that the views of most municipalities and the Collective Transport Association are absurd?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1625	I record that I hit a sore toe at Arbeddarpartiet – that was also the plan. The policy of the Workers' Party is here, do not hang together. I understand very well that the county councils and the collective traffic association, which organises the companies that meet the competition from the express bus, like to see that we don't get any more competition that makes the others fill their buses and get higher profits, but I'm thinking about the passengers. That's why I'm proposing this change. I think it is quite absurd that we should have buses running past passengers that they are not allowed to pick up. That's why we're trying to change the code. I mean, like the representative Tor André Johnsen, the question is whether we should have gone even further – freedom of establishment. It is the kind of question that can help us to get a commercial, viable collective offer in many parts of the country, which alleviates the need for subsidised public transport, so that we, for example, can. can invest in new materials in the major urban areas in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1632	The government and the government parties have on several occasions shown that NHO Transport supports the government's proposals. It is one of the very few who support it, but rightly so – NHO Transport supports it. But the NHO Transport believes otherwise. The NHO Transport, in a letter to the Committee and in the hearing, has called for the Norwegian tariff agreement to be required in order to obtain wagon licences. So that's what NHO Transport is saying. This is what the employees in the industry, both the Professional Traffic Association, and the Transport Workers' Association believe. My question is: Does the Minister for Transport agree with the NHO Transport that a comprehensive Norwegian tariff agreement should be concluded as a requirement for coaching licences?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1641	I have explained to Stortinget – I have also done so in a letter dated 9 May to the representative Helge Orten in response to written questions – that it is at least not the right place to regulate it in the professional transport law, as the representative Nils Aage Jagstad also stated from the bar. There are places where you can choose to add such permissions. I mean, this bill is not the right place for it. I have explained that, and I also take that into account in this treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1646	I want to support the representative Sverre Myrli – this was simple demagoguery from a government council. I haven't experienced the husband of simplifications in my life. It's okay enough that the Progress Party needs some strong sulphur preachers, but they don't get to convince me at least to vote the Advance Party at the next crossroads. Does the Council of State not at all see a problem in a competitive situation between an express bus and public transport on the road – public transport which he himself grants a lot of money to, government funds, taxpayers’ funds – and that it is a real competitive situation if we do not take care of it?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1654	I am completely over-intentioned – without trying to overinterpret SV about the same thing. I hear they say in some other case that activity creates activity. Better collective provision can help more people travel collectively. If there are different travel methods and different routes that mean that there is no railway passing by, one can, even if the state has the incentive to both expand and buy the services, choose an express bus that goes forward just as quickly. This may result in a resetting of the passenger car. That is why I am sincerely surprised by SV, the Labour Party and the position of the Center Party when this is the case. I honestly believe that there is a party that is occupied with collective provision. That's why I'm so surprised that one's busy with collective services only when it's not profitable. If it's profitable, one really won't have it, then one will regulate the salary in it. That's what I think is the great paradox of this, because I'm totally overly overly envisioned to provide more travellers with collective services. We have good experience with that from this period we're in.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1659	Once again, there are many public transport services, i.e. routes, that need support to maintain a service level for most people. Then it can be a competitive relationship, and that's what we're worried about. I don't want to poke chains in the wheels for the express buses for no reason – the express buses have an important function in society. No one here disagrees. What is my question to the Council of State like this is: When the regulations are to be drawn up, will the Council of State be open to some discretion in the assessment of these rights, if it turns out that there is clearly a competitive public service relationship on the same route, or part of the route, even if it falls within the new legislation?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1666	I note that the representative Nävra says that SV does not have plans to stick pairs in the wheels for the express buses, but it is a thing today. Today one says that it is not possible to create commercial, profitable express bus services even if it is commercially profitable. That means that people are willing to pay to take the bus, for example. instead of taking the private car, one is not allowed by SV, the Labour Party and the Center Party to create it unless one crosses a state limit. It's a policy for the past, not for the future. We're concerned that more people are going to be allowed to travel collectively, that there should be a lack of collective travel that allows more people to choose it, and also choose it away, in the competition with the passenger car. SV bitreg today to the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1671	So the chord change is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1678	I'll continue a little bit where I left off. In this context, I am not going to sum up as the case rapporteur – I was, of course, a little upset by the Council of State, for natural reasons. What is alarming here is that the government completely disregards a number of heavy hearings that go against this proposal put on the table. It's quite amazing: you simply turn your back on the heavy hearing bodies that this often applies. I have said that, and I repeat: the express offer plays an important role in large districts, and it is part of the collective offer here in the country. But then it's also that if it's well planned by commercial bus companies, we can risk them humping the flow of a collective market. You can't ignore it. That's actually the situation, and that's what we're trying to prevent. That's why SV is against the government's bill, and we assume – as I said in the change of line – that the department in the regulation provides the opportunity for a judgement if there is strong competition on a route with public offer. The representative Myrli mentioned a section on the publication of wages and salaries. Of course, it fully supports SV, and I will not elaborate on it very much. Here we agree to refer to NHO Transport. It's not that often we do it, but in this area, of course, they're quite right. They pointed out in their replies to the Ministry that: ‘The use of a national Norwegian tariff agreement should be made as a requirement for train running licences. It is necessary to be properly established in Norway in order to have train paths, which means that the so-called Posting of Workers Directive will apply if you engage foreign drivers’.» We have to distinguish two types of buses. It's the coach runs, and they're the ones in the regular route. If we're going to get a public disclosure, it has to apply to everyone, and there should have been conditions for a permit for public contracts. That is why we are involved in the minority proposal. It is quite important that we get work order for the whole of public transport, and many of these routes and some of these areas are under pressure on pay and employment, and it is important that it comes into order.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1696	I have to say it's very special to listen to the Workers' Party and the Center Party. They say no to everything, no to all change – change is kind of dangerous, everything new is dangerous. It reminds me a little of Ludwig in Flåklypa. So I really want to suggest to the Workers' Party and the Centre that they should perhaps change the rose and the clover and use Ludvig instead. It would have been a nice logo. I think I'd like to review that a bit and take it into their party organisations. SV is actually a little bit positive for change, so it's going to have to be a little bit of praise for it. The challenge is that they would like to change in the wrong direction, so it's a bit of a demanding one. But I have to say, the centre party first starts to comment that the need test doesn't have to mean that you say no. In principle, it's correct from the Center Party, but the challenge is that we see that in reality, in the policy that's being pursued, many people get no. As far as I know, almost no one gets a yes. At least my experience from the Inland is that it will be no from red-green state politicians. When SV is so concerned that we do not listen to hearing authorities, such as the states, it is not so very surprising. To mention my two indigenous states again: they are red — red and green — they are political opponents, who, of course, have a different political approach and a self-interest in maintaining monopolies. The competition from the express buses they don't want. Of course, they are skeptical – I understand that – but they do not focus on customers, they focus only on themselves and their own county public transport. This will make the ‘collective transport more expensive for the counties’ – it is directly quoted from the representative of the Centre Party. What I fear here is the real cause of the great resistance that we see from the left: they are more concerned with the economy of the county councils, with their own, red-green state politicians and by protecting them in the best possible way than ensuring the best possible collective provision, ensuring that passengers, the customers, get the best possible offer. Especially in the countryside, this is very important, because there are hardly any buses out in the countryside – there may be one in the morning and one in the afternoon. If the express buses that are running – and perhaps now there are several new routes – on rv. 3, e.g. from Røros to Elverum and down to Oslo, could stop and carry passengers, it would improve the daily life significantly for all those living in the village. We're now going to contribute to that. It is a pity that the opposition is against it, but perhaps not so very surprising – as I said – because they want to protect their own state politicians.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1709	You have to hear a lot before earing these off. If the Progress Party believes that this matter is about protecting its own state politicians, it must be a complete error. If the state politicians are concerned that the offer is becoming more expensive, then the Progress Party understands that it means that it will be more expensive for passengers. That's what this is all about. In the districts, having a double set of communications, both an express bus and a local bus, which are there at the same time, means that there will be two expensive solutions. The only difference is that the express bus is commercial and the others an offer that is partially subsidised because there are few passengers. Starting to think that state politicians are busy with their own budgets when they're sewing together public transport in areas of Norway where the basis is very small, but also where the offer is almost zero, I have to say is quite so scary. We're engaged in an offer across the country, and we're concerned that the county municipalities, the regions, have a coordinating responsibility, and that's what I meant by the need test not saying no. If the Progress Party believes that politicians all over Norway want a bad offer for their citizens, they must believe again. Of course, they want to spend the money they get from the state, and at the same time look at the offer that is being established. They want to welcome the express buses. They know that there are commercially driven companies that come on the offer page, and of course they want to do the best for them and the best for the offers that are. That's what this is all about. That's what everyday life is for those who sit and coordinate this. It is clear that in those places where there are no trains, the express buses are very important, because it is the only offer that can be traveled collectively over long distances. I think the county councils understand that. We in the Center Party understand very well, but I am very uncertain whether the Progress Party is at all on the record.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1714	First, I want to say a little bit about publishing. What we are saying in our opinion is that ‘the Public Procurement Act opens up collective bargaining agreements in all sectors when the conditions exist’. This means that reference is made to a law other than the Transport Act. It is covered by the Public Procurement Act. Point two: what this really is about is, for example, the case of the bus which today goes from Fredrikstad to Oslo, which stops at the court of the Cross in Ås, and which we can take. It goes there because it crosses borders. From 1 January 2020 Akershus and Østfold are in the same state. Then it must have permission – permission – to run that route. This means that the express bus loses a customer base, unless the Viken County Municipality decided that they would still receive a concession. When I travel to the Graveyard, I can take the bus directly to Oslo. It stops at Korsegården, and then it goes directly to Oslo. It's a nice thing, but I have to pay more. I can also take the bus from Korsegården to Ås and then take the train in. It's covered by my season ticket. What is the problem, and which makes the matter relevant, is not that it is now being liberalised – in and of itself – but something happens with the municipal boundaries, which means that buses that can stop in a place today, like the Korsegården, lose it right, because there is now a different county border, which includes both Eastfold, Akershus and Buskerud. It's that simple.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1725	The representative Tor André Johnsen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1730	To the representative of the Central Party, I can repeat and confirm what I said instead, and I keep that in mind: Red-Green state politicians naturally want to protect their own collective societies from competition, otherwise they would have avoided competition from several actors. Obviously, they do not want to. The rhetoric from the Center Party is a little inconsistent, I feel, because it is claimed that the offer will be more expensive for the passengers if one drops to the express buses. In the same post, the representative from the Central Party said that the offer is almost zero. Yeah, that's the whole problem. The offer of the village is almost zero. There are hardly any buses in the village, at least it is my experience from the village of Hedmark. Then it is a very naughty and fantastic offer to bring express buses, so that you can get a slightly better offer for those who live in the village. Everyone should be interested in that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1737	I'm a little uncertain as to whether what Nils Aage Jagstad said is quite correct. I believe that the legislation is like this today – and if I am wrong, I would like to be corrected – that if an express bus crosses a state border, you must have a concession from the state. It has recently been delegated to the county where the company in question has a business address. In the past, it was the department that did it. Now I think it's delegated. If, on the other hand, the bus does not cross the county border, then the county council will grant a concession. For example, as I spoke of, when Eastfold and Akershus are merged into one county municipality, and if the bus goes only within one county, it is the county municipality that has to grant concession. I believe that the reasoning for Igstad is simply not correct, but as I said, I am wrong, someone may like to correct me, but that is what I think the legislation is. This works very well around. I think this is a very reconstructed problem. When I listen to Tor André Johnsen and others – do they really know what they're talking about? The county politicians in Hedmark are the foremost people to be involved in the collective offer in Hedmark, and the county politicians in Northernland are the foremost people to be involved in the collective offer in Northernland? Probably they're much better at it than what we're sitting on the Stortinget, or those in the department, are. I think this is a reconstructed reality. There was a lot of cleaning up in the legislation that was before, because it was very strange that was in the legislation. Among other things, the express buses would not pick up passengers if they left the railway. I remember that the express bus that came from South Africa, which wanted to pick up passengers on the Tang outside Kragerø, was not allowed to pick up passengers because there was an old railway there. It was a railway from Neslandsvatn to Kragerø. Because there was a railway there, they were not allowed to pick up passengers, even if trains were not running. That was ridiculous, of course. Much of this was cleaned up, and I perceive that this works very well. The county councils play along with the express bus companies and make this work very well. So I'd like to end by saying that it's not publicity we're dealing with in the proposal. Again, the government parties reveal that they do not understand what the matter is. We are talking about those who are going to get coach tickets to follow the Norwegian tariff agreement nationwide and that this should be a requirement. It's not publicity we're talking about, but we've taken up as a proposal, from the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party, which is, among other things. NHO Transport has played to us.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1751	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1767	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be a replacement of lines of up to six lines, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up for the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1776	On behalf of the Committee, I present this matter on amendments to the Road Law, etc. It proposes changes in the road sector related to the implementation of the part of the regional reform relating to the transfer of the county road administration from the State Road Administration to the county municipalities. It was a joint municipal and management committee that supported the transfer decision. All tasks relating to the investigation, planning, construction, management, operation and maintenance of the county roads shall be carried out by the counties themselves from 1 January 2020 onwards. The tasks related to safety and preparedness and responsibilities of the national road database and road traffic control centres shall be continued as national tasks organised as part of the State Road Service. Changes to the laws are also proposed which change the statutory organisation of the state road services in regions to a more neutral regulation of the law. In addition, the Ministry proposes changes to the regulations in road laws and some other changes. Then I'll continue on behalf of the Center Party. First of all, when the county councils are to manage the county roads based on road laws, we believe that the authority over traffic-regulating signs and speed limits should also be transferred to the county municipalities, so I will take up the proposal that the Senterpartiet and SV have promoted. It is important to strengthen county municipalities with new tasks. The county councils assumed responsibility for a number of state roads in 2010, and the county councils are largely very good road owners. For example, Nordland has spent more money on these new county roads than was done when the state was the owner. Unfortunately, it does not prevent the maintenance kit from being large, and the experience is that when tasks are transferred, the money has to be followed. The central party will refer to the consultation recordings of the county councils and the KS, where they point out that the transfer of financial resources to the county councils in 2020 must be based on what is actually used for the total road administration of the state road body, not only on the number of posts transferred. The transfer will entail significant conversion costs and the provisional calculations of these costs are uncertain and incomplete. This amendment to the law that I mentioned earlier does not mean that the Central Party agrees with the government's decision to move from a regional model to a divisional model.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1794	The representative Siv Mossleth has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1799	The case concerns the necessary changes in several laws for the transfer of the county road administration. The working party agrees with this transfer. There will then be a better match between responsibility and authority on our county roads. Nevertheless, we believe that the process could have been better, and that the order from the government to the State Road Service on what to investigate has been poorly justified. Reorganization is never easy, but when you also get an economic cut of $1.7 billion. kr in addition to the transfer of employees to the county before starting up, it becomes difficult. We also call for a more thorough investigation into the challenges facing our road sector today. When it comes to making changes, including making them more efficient, it should be to make services better for citizens, and we believe that this must happen across the country. There are many feedback from citizens and different organisations that are concerned. In addition, there is a need for a role clarification between the State Road Administration and New Roads. In projects after projects, we see that it is problematic, and that there is disagreement, which can be both cost-effective and delayed projects for Nye Veier. They are both competitors and have different responsibilities. More and more highways are at the same time left to New Roads. It is clear, at least, that the Workers' Party does not want the privatisation of the licence issue, as we believe that the traffic stations, or the tasks of the traffic stations, must be present throughout the country, and not least that the county council's ability to be a good road owner must be strengthened. Staff members should be informed as soon as possible of the date of transfer of their employees. The Labour Party is behind the law changes, but I'm going to be honest that this has been difficult for us, not least to see the whole and what is decided when. The whole reorganization should have been clarified before this law change was dealt with, but we understand that it is busy. We therefore expect, when the State Road Service has completed its investigations and the decision is on the Council of State table, that the Stortinget will be properly briefed during the process.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1814	In the draft law, the Ministry of Transport makes proposals for changes in the road sector related to the implementation of the part of the regional reform relating to the transfer of county road administration from the State Road Administration to the county municipalities. The majority of the Municipal and Administrative Committee noted that the task should follow when the new county municipalities are established from 1 January 2020. An overall municipal and management committee supported the decision on transfer. The transfer of the Road Administration from the State Road Service to the new states is a real decentralisation of state power. This will also mean a more comprehensive management of large sections of the county road network. The allocation of tasks will lead to the redistribution of resources, both human, economic and technical. It will be essential for the states to have resources transferred from the State Road Administration that are proportionate to the task allocation. The majority of the state roads were transferred to the county councils in 2010, but then the road administration was established together. There were divided opinions between the states that time, and there are divided opinions now about how lucky it was. The funding of the reform at that time only showed an increase in the annual framework grants to the counties. This has not worked because the aftermath on the county road network was unevenly distributed between the counties and much larger than assumed. The Ministry proposes changes to the road laws repealing the provisions of the National Road Administration and the county roads and changes to the provisions transferring authority from the State Road Administration to the county municipalities. Specific provisions are proposed in the Road Law on Social Security and Preparedness, National Road Data Register and Public Road Information. The Ministry proposes changes to the law that change the statutory organisation of the state road system in regions, to a more neutral regulation of the law. In addition, the Ministry proposes changes to the regulations in road laws and some other changes. The Government, in a balance between different considerations, has concluded that the part of the same road administration relating to the county roads as a whole is transferred to the county municipalities in line with the Stortingen’s request decision. All the tasks of investigation, planning, construction, management, operation and maintenance of the county roads shall be carried out by the county municipalities themselves in the future. Tasks relating to safety and preparedness and responsibilities of the national road database and the road traffic centres shall be continued as national tasks organised as part of the State Road Service. The Swedish Road Administration's investigation has shown that the department used about 1,600 years' work, corresponding to about 1,650 full-time jobs for roadside tasks in 2017. The annual work is divided into 4,800 employees, which is thereby directly affected by the transfer. This says something about the scope of this reform. I'm glad it's so close to it when it happens.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1829	This concerns changes in road laws. The National Roads and County Roads Authority is separated, so that some of the employees of the present State Roads Service will work for the counties in the future. That is a natural consequence of regional reform. Once the counties have grown larger and merged, they also get new and more jobs. Changes in road laws and transfers of employees from the State Road Service to the new regions are also part of the efficiency of a conversion process in the State Road Service, which the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have adopted in the NTP. In fact, there are enormous efficiency and savings opportunities in the state road system. Before we started the transition and the efficiency improvement, there were over 7,500 employees, and it's a very big cross of thoughts that there are actually more employees than in the Swedish Transport Agency. The Swedish Transport Agency is responsible for everything relating to transport, a much greater responsibility than just what the Swedish Road Administration has, plus that Sweden is a much larger country than Norway. Overall, this should be good when we're done with the process. We will continue and continue to improve the efficiency of the Road Administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1836	In the draft law, the Ministry of Transport makes proposals for changes in the road sector related to the implementation of the part of the regional reform relating to the transfer of administration from the State Road Administration to the county municipalities. The majority of the Municipal and Administrative Committee noted that the tasks should be carried out when the new county municipalities are established from 1 January 2020 – and understood that the funds were also. It is worth noting that a joint municipal and management committee was behind the decision on transfer, which of course we in the Center Party also agree with. In the municipal bill for 2020, presented on 14 May 2019, the government announced a maximum real growth of 100 million. kr and, in the worst case, a real reduction in county income of 200 million. kr. At the same time, the government states that, in the case of one of the largest transfers of tasks from the state to the county municipalities, the administration of the county roads, the county councils will only receive money for the employees who actually move from the state road service to the county municipalities, not for the annual works that are currently responsible for this administration of the state road system. This is very serious and may result in significant under-financing of the reform and it is not in line with the principles for the transfer of tasks between management levels. I assume that this is something that is going to be given clear signals about here in the debate, that it will not happen. The proposal states that the Ministry of Transport will make proposals for the transfer of funds into the State budget for the following year, given that transfers can be made from 2020 onwards. I hope that with that sentence you will correct the concern that I have brought to the hall here and now. Nevertheless, it does not mean that they know how to do so, a significant uncertainty for the county councils and the employees concerned by date. This is in line with several other tasks of the county councils, which they are set to investigate, or which are put in waiting mode. Time is short. Now it's summer 2019, and this is going to happen in 2020. For us, it is important to stress the importance of strengthening county municipalities with new tasks. The State Road Service has also provided an organisational model involving the divisionalisation of the organisation. It is proposed to amend the law which removes the legal organisation of the State Road Administration in regions under a Regional Road Manager. We call for a thorough debate on this and have, through the comments, signaled that it will come back to us in Prop. 110 S for 2018–2019, called Some Road, Railway and Postal Matters, points 2.6 and 2.7.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1849	It also appears that it is important to strengthen the county councils with new tasks. That's what we've taken a long time. SV also believes that the transfer of road administration to the counties can be a good idea to move the political decisions closer to them. At the same time it is a ‘but’, it is a big ‘but’. SV believes that both the investigation that has led to this, and the case itself that has been submitted, have serious deficiencies. We have to remember that the State Road Administration, in its own investigation, is very critical of transferring co-way administration to the states at this time. They think it's going too fast. There have also been strong critical voices from both the NTL and Tekna in this. This position is pointed out for many reasons, and SV agrees with many of them. What SV is most concerned about is that the environments of competence within what we call intelligent transport systems, ITS, can be weakened. It is precisely this environment that needs to be strengthened, not weakened, when technological developments in this field are speeding up. Now more than ever coordination of road traffic management, traffic management and parts of road management is required. The fragmentation of trade unions may be a general problem in this respect. It is not certain that all county councils will have the competence of the state road system today. The State Road Service is also responsible for the professional environment of national roads, of course. The result may be a significant use of consultants, leading to high costs. SV is also concerned when we see that it is very unclear what the transition will be like for the employees affected. How many employees are there? What are the rules applicable to transfers? I have spoken to several people who are now insecure. The costs of the transfer are also far too poorly determined, in our opinion. Menon Economics concluded that it was likely that a transfer would become more expensive, while significantly reducing the quality of the problem solution. It is a very large process of conversion, and it is important that funds should be provided, just as the representative Bengt Fasterøne pointed out. SV has now hesitated to go against the setting as it exists, because we expect that all of our individual proposals may not get a majority. If they do, we're going to be completely different. But we've kind of come to sense and congregate and we're going to go against the setting, assuming there's a lot of problems with it, let's see if we've been positive to it at some point in time. I would like to comment on the SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1868	The representative Arne Nävra has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1873	The regional reform suggests that the county municipality can and should take on more tasks. The left has good faith that transferring the County Road Administration from the State Road Administration to the County Municipality will be a good tool for managing regional tasks in a good way. Its closer challenges are taken, and its better locality, its better decisions. Not least, priorities are getting even better. The last number you've been given is that there are 1,850 people moving from the state roadway to the county municipalities, divided by the different municipalities, and it's important, I think left, that we're doing it with business transfer. It is difficult for employees to get a new employer. There'll be trouble in the workplace. Therefore, I see clearly that there is some concern in both Tekna and NTL for this restructuring. But it has been notified for quite many years, and I think it now has to be implemented quite quickly. We cannot wait a long time before this is implemented. On 1 January 2020, I think it is a good date to implement this. We hope that we will get a strong professional replenishment in the county council to solve the problems. So it's not like the state road service is going to be shut down. They have a lot more employees. I also hear that you are a little worried about losing your competence. I think that the division proposed can be a good move to maintain good competence in different disciplines in the state road safety system, which can be complemented by both the professional competence of New Vei and, in particular, these research institutes, which are located around the country, which clearly have very good competence and can carry out this task in a very good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1883	The transfer of the former road administration to the county is a major change in the public sector. Moving up to 1,850 annual works from the state to the county is a massive decentralization of power, moving out to the regions, which got the roads in 2010, which they are now also being assigned to administer. That is why I fundamentally disagree with Mr Nävra, who says that this process is going too fast. This process is actually too late. One of them got the road in 2010, and then it gets a responsibility for the management of them in 2020. Ten years is a long time. There are two reasons why we should implement this at a high pace. One thing is that the government has been serious about regional reform. When we create new regions and add tasks, regions must also be allowed to plan and establish themselves on the basis of the tasks they will have from day one. Therefore, we have seen the timeline until 1 January 2020. The other reason is that they are added. Because if one knows that one needs to be transformed, that the whole company, the one in which one works, has to find another organisation, is the surest way to ensure that competence remains, that there are not long and exhausting processes, but that one comes to the goal and comes back to the normal situation in the new way of working. Hence, the pace of implementation is important. Therefore, I am also quite happy with the job done by the State Road Administration, among others. in cooperation with the counties and the KS. Because this is a big change. Here are demanding challenges. Here are things that can go wrong. But the high-speed option is loss of competence. That's why it's so important that we do this with the pressure that's now being done. I'm very happy that the great plurality in this room actually understands the need for it, because that's what it's about. If we're both going to keep a competent professional environment in the state road system and move over the necessary skills to the new county municipalities, we need to run that belt and clothes can hold, so that we can achieve goals in a way that means that we have a well-functioning state road system and a well-functioning new county road administration from January next year. I am therefore pleased that a large number of people join this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1896	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1901	We can agree that this reorganisation is complicated, and that it requires a number of changes in the law in which it is difficult to see the whole. And a lot is still unclear as to what it's going to be like. The Council of State has been close to the process, so my first question is: how will the process continue, and how will the Storting be kept informed along the way?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1908	If there is a need to inform the Storting about, for example: change progress etc., I will come back again about it. I still hope it should be unnecessary. I hope that all the county councils now agree that we get this transfer, so that they can add security to their work as early as 1 January next year, and that we get a competent environment that is up and going from then on. And as I said, I'm coming back to the Storting if it turns out to be a challenge in it. But just as important is that there are still unresolved questions. If there are any of them that it is natural that I consult Stortinget about, I will of course also do so. There may be questions as to the nature of a common regulatory administration, the degree of freedom to establish standards and solutions on the road network, etc. It's for disposal, and it's too early for me to process how we're going to handle it, but if there's a need to consult the Storting, the government will do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1915	The matter is about the transfer of road administration, but the Workers' Party believes that there has been very little focus on the role clarification between the State Road Service and New Roads, and we are constantly getting feedback that this needs to be clarified. For example, the state road authority has: objections to the location of a bomb on the E18 between Langangen and Dørdal, which can either delay the expansion very long or defuse the project by several hundred million kroner. And so it is in several cases. Is it considered, both in the investigation and in what the Council of State will decide, how this is to be resolved? So are there other ways to do it than today?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1920	This is a question I want to define to be completely at the edge of the matter. Nevertheless, the division of responsibilities between the State Road Service and the New Roads is perfectly clear. It is quite clear who is responsible for planning processes. It is in individual cases either the municipalities or the state. It is quite clear to anyone who has the right to object in individual cases, and if there are contradictions, it is quite clear how they should normally be treated. So there is no reason to say that there are unresolved questions about who is responsible for what, between the State Road Service and New Roads. But it happens that they're disunity, and that, I think, it's about making us solve as quickly as possible, so it doesn't delay the progress of the projects or impose costs on the projects. We are quite a few of them about that. But I think, basically, that it's more about how to exercise and manage the individual case than about unclear responsibilities between the two.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1927	This amendment of the law is in place, but the Central Party is concerned about significant underfinancing when the administration of the county roads is transferred on 1 January 2020. No county council knows today how this responsibility will turn out financially. It is irresponsible to wait so long to clear up the funding. Does the Council of State believe that it is reassuring for the county councils to wait until the state budget is presented, before they know what the framework increase will be, and how the distribution between the county municipalities will be after this major change in the public sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1934	It doesn't surprise me at all that the Center Party is once again concerned. It's actually -- if we think about it -- in all of the things we're dealing with, at least they're the ones I'm involved in here. But there's not always a cause for concern. It is clear to the county councils what kind of transfers they receive – initially. If they accept a supplement that is currently working in the State Road Service – offering a job – then they will receive the funding that comes with it, that is perfectly clear. The question is how to manage any additional costs. They're not only the county that's at risk, the state also has, the Storting has a risk in this conversion process. It is therefore natural that the Stortinget should present this separately — gathering — when dealing with such matters, simply in the state budget. As a result, Stortinget can also decide on the risk-sharing of this between municipalities and municipalities – a quite natural time.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1939	As the foremost counter-measure against this centralization that the government stands for in terms of depriving people of services, it is natural that we are somewhat concerned. However, the transfer of these economic resources to county councils must, of course, be based on which tasks are transferred, including the conversion costs — not only specifically the employees transferred. Is it actually that the law we adopt, for example. will result in if – let's say – 30 out of 130 employees in the state road system who work with county road administration today continue in the same job, with the county municipality as an employer, the county council will only receive framework transfers corresponding to the 30 employees?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1946	What the Center Party is demonstrating is not counter-power, it's off, it's completely abated for a situation where Norway has to be reformed – with demanding large-scale public sector conversion processes. The alternative to someone having the courage to make such changes, even when it's not quite obvious how it has to be, is that it ends up where it did with the Center Party in 2010: A transferred road, but unable to move the road administration, which means that the county authorities feel that they have got a road project, but have not had direct control of everything.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1951	Now the council must remember to answer the question!
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1957	There's nothing other than the demise of the Center Party demonstrating. I realize that it is frustrating and sometimes provocative, but that is also the reality. We are going to carry out this reform in a way that allows the county councils, who have asked for the tasks, to get the tasks done and to be able to solve them. There are different stages in that work. As a rule, now a member of the State Road Service offers tasks, and they are paid for those tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1962	The President must point out that the representatives must wait until they have the floor before taking the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1967	I think the Council of State is showing a very arrogant attitude towards the previous replicator. I've rarely seen my husband. There is no answer to the question from the previous replicator – it will not be answered, and it was a significant question, on which I can continue a little further, provided I have two lines. It is: can the Council of State guarantee that the county does not receive net expenditure increases in this transfer? We have in mind the conversion costs, we have in mind the synergy effect that was when professionals from the county and state worked together. Can the Council of State give us some sedative medicine, an all right answer to that, instead of going to personal counterattacks?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1972	I don't think I've said something of a personal nature, but if I've done it, it doesn't have to be intentional. If one hears what I'm saying, and doesn't add any other meaning to me than what I've actually expressed, I don't think there's any basis for that. I mean, there's every reason to take the transition challenge that this represents both for the state and for the county, seriously, and I do. But that's why I say this has to take one step at a time, and that's why I also say that we have to come back to the state budget if there are things we have to make adjustments from what is today's leaders. This makes the situation difficult for both the state road and county authorities. Then we have to remember that the county councils have asked for these tasks. They said they're ready to take over these problems. They want a high rate of transfer because they want their own county administration, because new regions are created to work, and that's why we have a high rate of conversion. Then we will contribute to the lowest possible risk for all parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1979	Then I have a specific question to the Council of State. SV believes that there is some inconsistency when the county councils are transferred to manage the county roads based on the law, but at the same time does not have the same authority as the state and municipalities to administer by law in the road traffic law. There's an example, which I've also quoted in the setting. For example, I have understood that traffic-regulating signs and speed limits are still not to be transferred to the county. Does the Council of State think that is logical and reasonable?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1984	Yes, it seemed that the Council of State is logical and reasonable. If not, the State Council would have proposed something else. It's about a harmonised regulatory framework for this, that we don't end up with an ever-ending sign jungle where a person has different types of signage in different regions of the country, but actually ensures that it's harmonised. So the question is, what kind of flexibility can you get within the fact that the state still has the primary responsibility? It's not up to me to look at it, but I think we're basically going to need a common code on how to deal with that kind of problem, so that it's possible for those who're travelling along the road to understand the signs across the regions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1989	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e1996	This government is clearly moving towards more and more centralizations. In 2015, the message to Nordland was very clear. kr less each year. Start cutting! In 2017, two years later, there was a new message: the framework transfers would be 460 million. kr less. Cover an annual cut of 460 million. kr, nordlanders. We've seen this in several places. It is a clear economic message to the districts that the population should invest in poorer services. At least money shall not be spent on these counties. We see with this regional reform that there are great opportunities for a centralising government to continue the dismantling of services to people in the districts. In this case, it should be very clear that it is the tasks that should be the basis for the financial transfer, not just each employee who gets a job in the county. I have not heard – in any way – that we have received a confirmation of how the economy should follow the tasks of the county council. I find that critical, especially all the time we can see – and I will be willing to admit it – that the previous state road reform should have been followed up with more money. Now the government has a great chance to fix this, but all the signals show that they're going to do the opposite. In my example of 300 who work with county road administration today, all the characteristics show that if the government is to transfer money, it is only per employee. They don't bring anything else. The county can come into the situation that if 30 employees follow, only the 30 employees are included.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e2007	When one hears the article from the representative Mossleth, the only way to get that reasoning to go up is to say, Molde is more central than Oslo. Some of us are doing it, but that's the only way to claim that this is centralization. This is a massive transfer of tasks added to central government to the new populous regions. One must almost be a member of the Center Party to call it centralization. This is the transfer – decentralisation – of responsibility from the state to the local and regionally elected level, subject to political decisions at a lower level of government than the state. Every other place is called the decentralization of power. When the Center Party, the Workers' Party and the SV put in government, it was called the decentralization of power. Now it is called the move of tasks, the construction of new, stronger regions – the decentralization of power. It is good that the party in this room has decided that they should say ‘centralisation’ no matter what the case is, but it is not very likely for that reason. Now it's time for someone to take a given with the way the Central Party is driving the debate, because it's no longer about reality. So up to 1,850 annual works have to change employers. It's one of the biggest decentralizations of tasks – from the state to the regions – we've seen for very many years. A task transfer that the Center Party was fundamental to when they put in government, because they thought it was the decentralization of power, is now a problem because it seems centralizing. It's not a threat. So it's time for the Center Party to either clear up its own argument or clarify what they actually think about this kind of thing. The government has done a lot to make the new populous regions succeed. There will be fewer of them, but they will be stronger. That's why we provide a professional environment for one of the most important tasks they're going to have, just to make sure that their county roads are of a standard that makes people find it attractive to bow, commute and provide nourishment all around the country. That's why we're doing this, because the new regions are going to be regional development actors and we know that infrastructure development is crucial to achieve it. That's why we're decentralizing power, so that those who are going to make the decisions also sit on the money. This is a massive decentralization of power. The center party may call it something else, but as I said, it's not a threat.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e2020	It is quite clear that a transfer of co-roads management is a relocation that brings it closer to its citizens, but it is still such that the state road system today has a decentralised model in the way they are organised. It can quickly be that you debate two different things. One is the amendment of the law that we have to deal with here today, but that is also what I said as a concern in my previous post: How will the Stortinge be oriented? Now there's been an investigation from the State Road Administration, and there's no doubt that the Central Party representative, Siv Mossleth, is quite right that if it becomes a reality, it's a centralization. When we talk to residents all over the country, they say they have to drive miles to get the driver's license if this becomes a reality. For us in the opposition, it's unclear how this should be. That is why we hope that the Council of State believes it when he says that it should not be a centralisation reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e2027	As rapporteur-in-Office, I think it is time to round off this debate. Finally, as a representative of the Central Party, I just want to say that the Council of State could not have listened to what has been said in this Chamber. The center party has said in the hall that we are for the relocation of tasks. We also show that by being in and supporting this setting. The challenge facing the state councils is funding and being able to finance the tasks that are being relocated. At the same time, the representative Leirtrø is quite right that in every case it seems that centralising elements have crept in. In this case, it is clear that this is the case with traffic stations, which means that very many people get a longer journey to take a certificate. It is particularly bad in the district of Finnmark. So there has been some centralization in this case as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e2035	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e2051	There is an opinion from the Committee on this matter. The proposal for the approval of the Protocol of 6 February 2019 on the accession of North Macedonia to the North Atlantic Treaty of 4 April 1949 marks two things that I would like to underline: Firstly, this protocol marks the end of a long conflict between two European countries, Greece and now Northern Macedonia. Secondly, such approval by the Norwegian Stortinget side would be a step on the way to a new NATO extension. Both parts are joyous news for us who want us to peacefully co-exist in Europe, and who regard a strong NATO as a prerequisite for this peace. The name conflict itself was a bilateral issue between Greece and Northern Macedonia. It was mainly about who could claim the ancient name ‘Macedonia’ — Greece, which has its own province called Macedonia, or one of the states that emerged in the wake of the breakup of Yugoslavia after the war in the Balkans in the 1990s. Ever since North Macedonia became a candidate for NATO membership in 1999, Norway and other NATO countries have been clearly aware that the country is welcome to be admitted as a member, provided that this name conflict is resolved. This invitation was formalised during the NATO summit in Bucuresti in 2008. The solution, as it was negotiated by the two governments, was to add a geographical marker to the name of the country that claims the name, so that the country is now called North Macedonia, unlike the Greek province that is still called Macedonia. There is reason to commend the negotiating delegations from both Northern Macedonia and Greece, as well as the governments of the two countries, for having demonstrated targeted efforts and action in the negotiations last year, which led to the signing of the so-called Prespa agreement between the two countries on 12 June last year. There were few who had imagined a solution to the name conflict until a short time ago. It is also a fact that North Macedonia's opportunity to apply for NATO membership was a direct motivation for the country to reach agreement with Greece on the name issue. On 11 January 2019, the National Assembly of Skopje adopted the necessary constitutional changes in order to be able to ratify the naming agreement. On the Greek side, the change in name was ratified on 25 January this year. Now that the name conflict has been resolved, there is no diplomatic barrier to North Macedonian membership in the defence alliance becoming a reality. The accession talks with Northern Macedonia took place last October. Since then, the Government of the country has confirmed its desire to accede to the Treaty to the Secretary-General of NATO. Article I of the Protocol requires the Secretary-General of NATO, once the Protocol has entered into force, on behalf of the Member States, to invite the Government of Northern Macedonia to accede to the Treaty. Pursuant to Article 10 of the Treaty, North Macedonia will become a member of NATO once it has deposited its instrument of accession with the Government of the United States of America. Pursuant to Article II of the Protocol, the Protocol enters into force when each of the parties to the Treaty has informed the Government of the United States of America that they approve the Protocol. There is such a approval The size has now been asked to give in the present proposition. In addition to leading to an additional member, this will ensure the credibility of NATO's enlargement policy. There is broad consensus among allies that the extension of NATO is a continuous process open to all countries in Europe with the ability and willingness to contribute to the achievement of the objectives of the Treaty. Just strengthening NATO also strengthens Norway’s main security policy alliance.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e2089	The rapporteur, Mr Schou, has explained very well the facts of the matter and Norway's position. I just want to say hello – that's why I have to go to English: As Head of the Norwegian Delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly I would like to welcome North Macedonia’s ambassador, Serdjim Muhamed, to the parliament. I hope that North Macedonia will work for the integration into NATO’s military structures and defence planning and common finance the programs. Welcome, Ambassador, to the parliament.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e2096	North Macedonia's entry into NATO is important for increased regional security and stability. The compromise – or so-called Prespa agreement – between Greece and Northern Macedonia to settle the long-standing name dispute was a very courageous decision, which has been controversial domestic politics in both countries. The prospects for NATO membership were an important motivation for getting this through in Skopje. It is therefore important that NATO now follow up its previous decision of the 2008 Bucuresti Summit, which promised membership of the alliance as soon as the name dispute was resolved. The Prespa agreement also indicated that long-term issues of conflict can be resolved peacefully. It is in itself an important signal in the region, as the international community also acknowledges. I also want to commend North Macedonia for the contributions made to international operations. More than 4,000 have served in NATO, EU and UN operations. Given the size of the country's population and armed forces, this is impressive. North Macedonia's entry into NATO also contributes to increased allied security in this way. By joining the Atlantic Pact, North Macedonia commits itself to NATO's value base. As a young country, Northern Macedonia continues to face governance challenges, including: ethnic tensions and widespread corruption. At the same time, much has been achieved through the NATO Action Plan on Membership and Adaptation to Alliance Structures. At the next European Council in June, the EU Member States will also take a decision on whether to open membership negotiations with Northern Macedonia. Finally, I would like to stress that I am pleased that there is a unanimous increase in support of North Macedonia's accession to NATO. It is a continuation of established Norwegian policies and a contribution to achieving the objective of a democratic and stable Europe that is united in meeting new security challenges. So I want to add for myself that since we're sitting alphabetically in NATO, I can also say that I'm happy to sit next to my North Macedonian colleague at the next ministerial meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e2109	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e2125	The majority participates with permanent delegations to seven different parliamentary assemblies: Asia-Europe Parliamentary Partnership, ASEP Interparliamentary Union, IPU EFTA Parliamentary Committees and the EEA Joint Parliamentary Committee Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, PACE Arctic Parliamentary Cooperation NATO Parliamentary Assembly Organisation for Security and Cooperation in the Parliamentary Assembly of Europe As leader of Norway’s delegation to NATO PA, my contribution will focus on the issues that were most focused on Norway in NATO PA in 2018. I suppose members of the other delegations will present their experiences. But there's a little sparing with people in the hall here, so there might not be as many people participating. NATO PA is a useful forum for discussing various common defence and foreign policy issues facing NATO countries and partner countries. The Assembly is particularly useful because it brings forward more views than the NATO Council, which represents a broader range of political views on the tasks and tasks of the Alliance. For example, it might be interesting to hear what arguments a politician who wants to end the NATO alliance presents. It can sometimes be both scary and historyless. NATO PA deals with both political, military and civil aspects of defence policy. Through the preparation and presentation of reports, delegates provide information and knowledge useful for use in the domestic political arena. For example, it's interesting to know whether NATO countries are using protective or trained soldiers. It is useful to acquire knowledge of planned national acquisitions. France and Germany’s ambitions for enhanced EU cooperation in defence are also interesting to learn about. It is of particular interest to learn how defence technology is a driver for the development of high-technology in the civil sector, not least in the case of hybrids. NATO today consists of 29 member countries — almost 30, fortunately — 16 associated countries and 8 national observer delegations. International congregations have an inherent and self-enhancing tendency to increase the number of participating and present countries. This also applies to NATO PA. It is important that such an extension does not make the assembly less relevant. We must prevent NATO PA from becoming a UN in miniature. I say that, because when you're in NATO PA, you often find that countries you almost didn't know existed, and that often have a completely different cultural background and a completely different set of values than what has been in the Western NATO Alliance, make you get different opinions, but not always make us gather around a common liberal, democratic project. It's actually something you have to be aware of. If you look at the NATO PA participant list from when we were in Slovakia a few days ago, you can see that there are countries where we can hardly compare with what I mentioned. We should be careful about that. I mention this because the basic idea of NATO is military cooperation and common defence of countries based on liberal, democratic principles and values, as I mentioned. In 2018, there were three areas in particular that were in focus, not least for Norway: the burden-sharing debate, Trump's strong pressure on the 2 % target and the fight against hybrid threats. It is sad to say, but Norway is among the weaker countries in reaching the 2 % target. We have the same goal, but it's now the NATO country that's actually far above 3 pst. Norway should – I say this as the leader of Norway’s delegation to NATO PA – bring us together and get up to the 2-percent limit, as the commitment implies, by 2024. We have no reason not to do that in a rich country like Norway. Unfortunately, Norway is not among the best to approach the 2 percentage points, and we encounter little understanding of that among our NATO allies. Although at home you realize that it's hard to put together the budget so that we get to 2 pst. It's not the issues our allies have the greatest understanding of. I also record that this is unanimous except for a comment from SV that they do not support the ambition to use 2 pst. on defence. Then I choose to interpret it positively, as that SV wants to increase ambition beyond 2 pst. So we say 2.5 or 3 pst. and bets that this is SV's goal. Furthermore, there was a great deal of attention around the military exercise Trident Juncture, which was held in Norway in the autumn of 2018. The practice was the largest NATO exercise since the Cold War. The northern areas were also on the agenda of the NATO PA, both through a report, through a resolution and through visits by approx. 40 NATO parliamentarians to Norway in May. The resolution pointed out that the North has become more important, including: due to climate change and Russia’s increased military capacity.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e2173	Since we are halfway through the current enlargement period, I would like to take the opportunity to brief and provide an update on the work of the Great Britain delegation to the Asia-Europe Parliamentary Partnership, ASEP, which I am leading. The ASEP delegation is the youngest international delegation in the Stortinget, established in 2015, and it is also the smallest delegation, with only three permanent members. ASEP is a parliamentary forum which is parallel to the dialogue established at the level of government between Europe and Asia on political, economic and cultural issues, the Asia-Europe meeting, or the ASEM cooperation. This cooperation was established in the mid-1990s by the EU and ASEAN countries and China, Japan and Korea, and now includes more than 52 partner countries. ASEP consists of national parliamentarians from all ASEM countries and from the European Parliament. There are second annual sessions, alternately in Europe and Asia, and the delegation took part in last autumn’s ASEP meeting in Brussels. Asia is one of the main priorities of Norwegian foreign policy and has increasing importance for Norway in many ways. With the economic and geopolitical developments in Asia as a backbone, with China's increasingly offensive and active role in the region, in the global arena and with re-established diplomatic relations with Norway, and given the increased importance of Asia in multilateral fora, especially in climate and trade agreements, and not least at a time of increased trade tensions between Europe, the United States and China, there is a need both for increased parliamentary contact with Asian countries and for increased competence in Asia in the United Kingdom. Therefore, with the establishment of the ASEP delegation, there has been a desire for the delegation to have a broad Asia exposure. Developing this in practice is an exciting new job for us in the delegation. I would like to highlight cooperation with ASEAN countries as an important priority and strategy in this way. ASEAN is an economic, cultural and social partnership between ten countries in Southeast Asia, with which Norway has a sectoral dialogue partnership in 2015. The region has 600 million inhabitants. It's collectively the seventh largest economy in the world. ASEAN is therefore a key trading partner for Norway – our third largest in services and the fifth largest trading partner in goods. The exposure of Norwegian business in this region has long historical lines and is increasing. Through the EFTA, Norway has several bilateral free trade agreements with ASEAN countries and the last one was concluded with Indonesia, the G20, last November. It is expected that the Storting will be sent for treatment and ratification early in the harvest session. There are also ongoing negotiations with Vietnam and Malaysia, and there is hope that negotiations with Thailand, which have been put on hold, can also be resumed. The delegation had a very useful and instructive en week’s work visit to Indonesia and Singapore in March this year. There we had conversations with parliamentarians, representatives of governments and think tanks and in addition with Norwegian business. It is worth noting that for ASEAN, it is important that it is in ASEAN-led meeting places that important debates on security and policy in Asia take place. Like Norway, ASEAN is committed to defending a world order governed by rules. Here we have a considerable convergence of interests and a self-interest from the Norwegian side of being present. With the increased importance of these emerging economies and markets for Norway, and in order to be closer to the ongoing political processes in Asia, it is important to develop bilateral ties with colleagues in the national parliaments of those countries and to give Norwegian cooperation with ASEAN a stronger parliamentary dimension. In this way, we can also support the work being done at government level. The delegation is therefore now working with a view to achieving a permanent observer status in the AIPA, which is the ASEAN Parliamentary Assembly. Apart from trade policy, key pillars of this cooperation will be themes such as renewable energy and the follow-up to sustainability objectives in forest and sea management, including maritime waste management measures. In this work, contact with Norway’s ASEAN ambassador in Djakarta and five ASEAN embassies in Norway has been strategically important. This is a cooperation delegation that wants to develop further, and we experience a mutual interest in this way. Thailand is now taking over the Presidency of ASEAN, and is then playing a key role in facilitating the further process of Storting's renewed application for observer status in AIPA, initially by helping the Storting to participate as guest in the AIPA session in Bangkok in August, as we did for the first time in Singapore last year. As I mentioned in the introduction, this is the smallest delegation of the Magnificent. It also means that the ASEP delegation has a relatively limited budget for the extensive activity that we gradually have. I want to signal that it may be natural for the next crossroads to take a closer look at the overall priorities for allocating resources between the different delegations, as a result of new needs for increased involvement and participation in different international partnerships. Finally, on behalf of the delegation, I would like to thank in particular the U.D. and the President-in-Office of the Council for their good cooperation and, at the same time, thank the International Department for excellent technical, practical and procedural assistance for the delegation's work.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e2209	I am the head of the Great Britain’s OSCE delegation and wanted to take advantage of the opportunity to put the search light on the work done by this delegation. The delegation works well and is very concerned that Norway should be a visible and good contributor to this work, which is so very important. In the OSCE there are 57 countries, from Vladivostok to Vancouver, which are members. Our delegation has a special close cooperation with the other Nordic and Baltic countries and meets them in front of the large gatherings we have, in order to coordinate, establish contacts and see together how we can best promote the values on which the OSCE is built and which we in our part of the world seem to be very important. The members that the Storting has chosen to be in the OSSE delegation are participants with great commitment. I would like to mention that Kari Henriksen, a member of the Third Committee, for democracy, human rights and humanitarian issues, is elected Vice President of the OSCE PA. Abid Q. Raja is in the first committee and works with politics and security in particular, and he is a special representative to counteract international terrorism. Toril Eidsheim, who is a member of the other committee, working with economics, science and technology, environment and climate, has recently been appointed as the OSCE PA's Special Representative for the Arctic, with a primary responsibility to follow up the work of the OSCE PA on Arctic issues and climate change. We were recently on a study trip with the president of the OSCE and senior politicians in the other committee, and it made a big impression on them to see how we can already see climate change at Svalbard. Of the issues in which the Norwegian delegation has been particularly involved, the fight against hate and war propaganda is taking place in many areas. It is a very important element in the development of democracy and human rights that we have a professional, free and self-regulatory press that counterbalances propaganda and fake news. In a non-profit world, everything the media writes would be true, but we know it's not like that. Therefore, it is very important in all countries to have room for a diverse press that can independently work both locally, regionally, nationally and internationally, and it is very important that we in the OSCE can point to the potential for improvement in many countries. The OSCE is based on the 1975 Helsinki Declaration. Just to remember how long it has been since, I want to mention that the agreement was signed by Helmut Schmidt in West Germany, Erich Honecker in East Germany and Gerald Ford in the United States. Leonid Breshnev signed for the Soviet Union, and Trygve Bratteli signed for us, for Norway. This was an important step in the disengagement between East and West, and the OSCE was established to build, consolidate and strengthen democracy as the only system for national governance. Democracy must be based on free and fair elections and fundamental human rights, such as legal certainty, freedom of expression, freedom of religion, freedom of assembly and freedom from discrimination and torture. Unfortunately, when we meet today, we see several features of developments in some OSCE PA countries that are not in line with the Helsinki Agreement and the Paris Charter, on which the OSCE is built. Some countries have tightened their grip and do not provide sufficient space for fundamental democratic values. This is a main reason why we in the Norwegian delegation wanted to have positions where we can work even more as special representatives or as vice president, as the representative Kari Henriksen is. These fundamental democratic values, upon which the OSCE is built, are at risk. We need to balance Europe to move in the right direction, because we feel that the dialogue has become very much more marked in recent years. I say that the dialogue has become more and more difficult, but we are still in a situation where we have dialogue between all the 57 Member States. Since democracy is so important, the election observation work carried out by the OSCE in cooperation with the ODIHR is very important, and we who are members of the delegation are trying to travel and participate in election observation to be part of a system that ensures free, fair and real elections. Another area to which we have a lot of attention is how to work against gender-based violence and harassment. It is one of the most widespread human rights violations in the OSCE area, and I would like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for following up on this issue. But we need to work in a number of areas, and in this particular case, what to say, different levels of central government can also contribute to working in different channels and towards different peoples elected at different levels in the countries with which we work. I have now gone through moments of what we are doing, and then I want the OSCE to have room for us to be politically active, and that any budgetary regulation does not go beyond the political activity of the OSCE PA.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e2230	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e2242	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e2251	In the course of the debate, a total of twelve proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-9, by Lise Christoffersen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 10, from Lise Christoffersen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party proposal No 11, from Per Olaf Lundtigen on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 12, from Solfrid Lerbreck on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 12, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to propose the creation of a separate alert item in line with the alert committee’s setting NOW 2018: 6. ‘... The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e2283	There is a vote on proposal No. 11, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘I In Law 17 June 2005 No. 62 on the working environment, working time and job protection, etc. is amended as follows: Paragraph 1-7 of the first paragraph is replaced by the following: posted worker means a worker working for a period of up to 30 days in a country other than that to which the employment relates. [[1]] II The law shall apply from 1 July 2019’.» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e2313	There is a vote on proposal No. 10, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to evaluate the experience of establishing a low-threshold conflict resolution offer added to the existing dispute resolution issue and return to the Stortinget with an assessment of the need for a separate mention, only for alert cases’. The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal. The Socialist Left has announced subsidiary aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e2330	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-9, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government in the follow-up to the request decision No. 437 on the increase in the level of organisation of workers and employers, consider how the measures can also act as important instruments for the strengthening of the protection of alerts, and thus also in a better organisation to ensure that more people use the right to alert on critical issues at work’. [[2017-2018]] Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The decision requests the Government to submit legislative proposals to ensure the possibility of anonymous alerts, while clearly demonstrating the right to open and/or confidential alerts without reproducibility’. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is requested by the Grand Duchy in the context of amendments to the rules on source protection in the Criminal Procedures Act and by the Arbitration Act to propose source protection in accordance with the Swedish legislation, with the prohibition of providing sources’. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to propose its own alert law, in addition to the changes in the alert rules in the Working Environment Act’. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to clarify by law or regulation that the right to notify under Section 2A-1 of the Working Environment Act is to cover all stages of a contract chain’. Proposal No. 6 sounds: «The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for the creation of its own notifying agent». Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to include in the alert provisions a reference to the Basic Law § 100 on freedom of expression’. Proposal No. 8 sounds: «The government is asked to submit legislative proposals or to draw up regulatory changes specifying that there is no right to impose regulatory restrictions on freedom of expression or the right to notify, whether in the private or public sectors». Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to submit legislative proposals which better ensure the rights of the person to whom it is notified and the one to whom it may be notified and which are not even alerts’. The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e2683	It is added to point (a) of the third paragraph of Section 2 A-2. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e2697	The rest of the I, the rest of the paragraphs and II are voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e2708	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e2718	The legislative decision will lead to second treatment in a subsequent meeting of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e2727	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Per Olaf Lundtigen on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘In Act No 28 July 1949 26 on the State pension fund is amended as follows: Paragraph 26, second paragraph, is replaced by the following: If a member dies without the commencement of an old-age pension in accordance with the rules laid down in the preceding subparagraph and the member of the death did not receive a temporary invalidity pension or an invalidity pension, the member shall, if he leaves the spouse, be paid an amount equal to the one-month old-age pension calculated as if the member had remained in the service at the age limit on an unaltered basis, but not exceeding 70 years. The same applies to the recipient of a pension under the Law of 25 June 2010 No. 28 on a contractual pension for members of the State pension fund. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘In Law of 26 June 1953, No. 11 on a pharmacy pension scheme, etc. is amended as follows: the first sentence of the third paragraph of Section 9 is replaced by the following: If a member dies without being retired, any surviving spouse shall be paid an amount equal to one month's old-age pension calculated as if the member had been in service at the age limit on an unaltered basis, but not exceeding 70 years.' Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e3274	It is contested in the second paragraph of Section 26 and the third paragraph of Section 9 of Section II. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e3288	It shall be added over VII. The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e3302	The remaining Roman numerals and paragraphs are added.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e3313	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e3323	The legislative decision will lead to second treatment in a subsequent meeting of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e3332	A total of 17 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Lise Christoffersen, on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party the proposals No 2-4, from Lise Christoffersen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 5-7, from Lise Christoffersen on behalf of the Workers' Party the proposals No 8 and 9, from, Per Olaf Lundtigen, on behalf of the Centre Party; the proposals No 10-17, from Solfrid Lerbreck on behalf of the Centre Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 10–17, from the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 10 sounds: «The Government is asked to return to the Grand Duchy without delay with proposals for necessary legislative changes where the statutory rules for the withdrawal and termination of the application pension comply with the applicable legal provisions». Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to return to Stortinget without delay with proposals for the necessary legislative changes where the legal rules for children’s supplements in the application model comply with the applicable legal rules’. Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to come back to the Grand Duchy without delay with proposals for necessary legislative changes to ensure the original agreement that profits in the gross scheme with a total vesting period of less than 3 years at the end of 2019 are to be transferred to the charging scheme’. Proposal No. 13 sounds: «The government asks the Government to come back to the Storting with proposals for the necessary changes to continue today's § 21 a of the State Pension Fund Act and § 7, fourth paragraph of the Nursing Pension Act». Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to return to Stortinget without delay with proposals for the necessary changes to reverse the second paragraph of new Section 6(a) of the Nursing Scheme Act’. Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to the Grand Duchy without delay with proposals for the legalisation of the AFP, which takes account of all the intentions of the agreement concluded between the public sector parties and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs on 3 March 2018’. Proposal No. 16 sounds: «The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with proposals for legal rules ensuring a guarantee of earned pension in the gross scheme. This must ensure an overall occupational pension including the AFP and conditional occupational pension at least at the level of gross earned pension calculated with a full-earning requirement of 30 years, and include all those who are in a position until they are entitled to draw a pension’. Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with proposals on how to improve the incentives for those who continue to work after ratio 1 has been reached.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e3405	There is a vote on proposal No. 9 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to present legislative proposals to the Stortinget with proposals for a solution for the 1943-1962 age groups, which are in line with the then Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg letter to the Riksmeklingsmannen of 3 June 2009, which will stimulate more people to work longer in the public sector. The proposal must also have an effect on those affected by the coordination procedure."; Red has announced support for the proposal. The Socialist Left and the Greens have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e3422	There is a vote on proposal No. Eight, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘I In Law 6 July 1957 No. 26 on the coordination of pension and social security benefits is amended as follows: § 24 nr. the third paragraph is replaced by the following: If the occupational pension is taken out after the age of 67, the ratio is used at the time of withdrawal. This also applies if a full or partial old-age pension has been taken out of the population’s pension at an earlier date. However, no lower ratio than 1000 shall be used for the calculation of the coordination deductions. II It shall enter into force immediately with effect from 1 January 2011.» Red has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e3451	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6 and 7 from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 6 sounds: «The Government is asked to submit a proposal as soon as possible for a guarantee relating to the AFP provisions of the Agreement, which will take effect if new legal provisions are not in place in time, including with a prerequisite for any necessary adaptation to changes to the AFP in the private sector». Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a return to the Storting with proposals to strengthen the employment incentives of government employees born in 1944-1962, with particular emphasis on those who had to lose in total annual pension payments to stand longer in work’. Red has announced support for the proposals. The Socialist Left and the Greens have announced subsidiary support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e3475	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to initiate negotiations between the parties on proposals in the proposition that are not part of the negotiated agreement and proposals that are perceived to break the intentions of the same agreement and come back to the Stortinget with a new case in the light of these negotiations’. Red has announced support for the proposal. The SV and the Greens have announced subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e3493	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2–4, from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to follow the unanimous decision of the Storting to obtain an overview of how the new coordination rules adopted on 4 June 2018 have been adopted for low-earning people in comparison with the previous rules’. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a comprehensive overview of all changes in the pension scheme of the government of Solberg’s government budget for 2020’. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to take the initiative to establish a simpler digital solution for persons wishing to calculate their future pension in advance, based on the possible combinations of pensions and work available’. The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e3522	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked by the government to require all public service pension providers to provide written information by letter to all members six months before the age of 67 on the consequences for pension payments of continuing in the public service post each year beyond the age of 67’. The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e4424	It is quoted above in Section 26h, fourth paragraph and sixth paragraph, last sentence and Section 11h, fourth paragraph and sixth paragraph, last sentence. The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e4439	It is votered over In new § 20 a, § 26 c, § 26 g, the rest of § 26 h, § 26 l and IV new § 6a, § 11 c, § 11 g, the rest of § 11 h and § 11 l. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that we are voting against.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e4453	The remainder of I and IV and the rest of the Roman numerals are voted on. The Greens and Reds have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e4467	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Greens and Reds have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e4481	The President understands that there are several votes that were not registered. Then we take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e4493	The legislative decision will lead to second treatment in a subsequent meeting of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e4502	During the debate, Mr Tajik put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government has requested the Government to submit a request as soon as possible that, for construction sites, only one HMS card with a publicly controlled identity must be issued to all self-employed and wage earners, showing their main employer and their education. The card shall be registered in a central public database and shall allow public control authorities to connect information to other public registers in real time, cf. available under Norwegian law.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e4530	In the course of the debate, proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Solfrid Lerbreck on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Per Olaf Lundtigen on behalf of the Centre Party, There is a vote on proposal No. 2 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to propose any necessary legislative amendment to ensure that the wage provisions of collective agreements which have a salary level lower than 80 pst. by average wages and salaries of industrial workers, to be published automatically.» Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e4556	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e4561	Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to make proposals to improve the public service regime and to make it easier to use by simplifying the documentation requirement.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e4583	The Central Party and Red have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e4599	During the debate Arne Nävra put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to amend the legislation in such a way that the use of the Norwegian tariff agreement applicable to the industry becomes a requirement for train paths’. The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e4642	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e4654	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e4668	The legislative decision will lead to second treatment in a subsequent meeting of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e4677	In the course of the debate, a total of five proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Siv Mossleth on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 2–5, by Arne Nävra on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2–5, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a proposal to ensure that the organisation of co-road administration is continued in such a way that county municipalities are guaranteed better tools than before in order to take advantage of the competence of the state road administration. This requires clearer reporting lines and better interaction between subjects and policies at the regionally elected level so that the social development role of the municipality can also be achieved to a greater extent than in the past.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government to instruct the State Road Administration to cooperate with the county municipalities on the administration of the county roads in order to make the most of existing competences in the state road system’. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that transfers of employees from the State Road Administration to the counties are regulated under Section 16 of the Working Environment Act by means of its own conversion law. This must also apply to employees who do not see substantially their tasks transferred but who are nevertheless offered other tasks.» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The decision asks the government to clarify how a situation in which more people believe to recognise their tasks in the same position should be dealt with.’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e4718	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that the county council is given full authority and authority over its own road as a vegeier if the county councils are given responsibility for the county roads, including those under the Road Traffic Act, which, inter alia, authorises the decision-making authority on the traffic-regulating sign’. The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e5240	It shall be added to I, II, III and VII. The Socialist Left and Red have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e5254	It is votated over other Roman numerals. The Socialist Left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e5270	The President records that there are several votes that were not registered. Let's do the voting again.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e5283	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Socialist Left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e5297	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e5313	Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-05.ana.ud495e5351	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
