ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e57	The representative Eirik Sivertsen, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat. The representative, Siv Mossleth, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e67	On behalf of Bengt Fasteraune, Nils T. Bjørke, Ole André Myhrvold, Marit Knutsdatter Strand and myself, I would like to make a proposal to change the road standards of the State Road Administration for walking and cycling.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e72	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e95	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the debate will be divided into two parts, so that the budget chapters of the Ministry of Local Affairs and the Ministry of Economic Development and the Ministry of Finance will first be dealt with: common and minority policies, public administration, privacy and housing policies, transfer to municipalities and regional and regional policies. Thereafter, the budget chapters of the Ministry of Justice and Defence and the Ministry of Knowledge are dealt with: immigration and integration. At the request of the Committee, part 1 of the debate will be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes, and speaking time will be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Right 25 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Green Party 5 minutes and Red 5 minutes. The number of part 2 of the debate will be limited to 70 minutes at the Committee's request and arranged as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Christian Party 5 minutes, Green Party 5 minutes and Red 5 minutes. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time of each part of the debate, a sequence change of up to three lines will be given, with replies from the main speakers of the parties and up to five lines with replies from members of the government. In addition, those who have to sign up for the speaker list in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e112	For SV, a good community economy is a choice of values because it is about the important security of our lives. It's about there being enough teachers in school, that the school is diverse and exciting, that there's enough people in care and care, that there's someone who's there if you're having mental health problems or drug problems, child protection, or you need to go to school health services. Many municipalities also need to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions so that we can achieve the climate targets. If we do these tasks well and prioritize this, it gives work to many and a safer life for both young and young. Therefore, SV prioritises in sum over 6 billion. kr more for the local government sector. We can afford that. And I must almost say to the government and the majority: that you dare! We have now been exposed to human rights violations in the care of the elderly and in care over several years. Older people are being medicated, so they're getting baptized, because there's not enough people in care. There is widespread use of violence against employees as well as against other residents in our institutions. There is one thing that can solve this, and it is that there are enough competent professionals present and a management who can control the resources they have. Tomorrow, SV will promote a new representative proposal on the standard of living in the care of the elderly and in other municipal care services – a fully funded standard of staffing, not as the government is doing, by not financing the reforms that come to school and kindergarten. In addition to this, I have now been informed that there are 286 overdose deaths in Norway. Municipalities must have better care for their needs. That's what SV suggests. Many people have mental problems. There is a need for low-threshold services in mental health, so that people have a place to turn when they know it's fine. Disabled persons are denied BPA. The human rights of people with disabilities depend on our having a strong municipal sector, and also on our doing something different from what the government is doing, namely providing action plans without deadlines and without obligations. SV suggests starting at least with universal design in schools, what is called the Roadmap, and that by 2030 at least we have to set ourselves the goal that all children should be able to go to their navel if they have a disability. Not even the government in the world’s richest country seems to be able to afford it. Hospitals print out very ill patients. The municipalities get tremendous expenditure on this, and have problems financing it. And no one can magic. These people must be treated either in hospitals or in the community health service. So if they're going to have to get treatment, and if they're going to get treatment, there's got to be some employees there who can take care of them. It costs money, and it's much more important and proper use of money that we take care of sick, elderly and disabled people than giving tax relief to the freshest and richest in this country, as the government has done over several years. I have to say, President – it is possible this is not a parliamentary expression – that I think it is a perverse valuation when health professionals, caregivers and home workers are seen as expenditures, while speculators and welfare professionals are seen as value creators. There's a big difference between the municipalities. Many of them are now struggling enormously. I have a long list of municipalities that have to cut. There is a need for a much stronger anti-income balance between the rich and the poor municipalities, just as there is a need between people who are rich and people who are poor. In district policy, it is also cut. It goes right with the policy of the government, which is turning the community economy towards the heavy, central municipalities. ‘There is more closure than start-up’, says former Right-Rapporteur in Grue in Hedmark, Wenche Huser Sund. Yes, it is, because the government has also cut over 1 billion. Regional policy. That's money we know creates jobs, and we need it. We need to cut emissions and create jobs, so we have something to live on in the future. In addition, the housing market has become a difference machine. I will come back to that in a later article. I would like to address the suggestions that SV is behind in the vote, and to resolve the proposals that have been distributed in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e137	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e144	Right will make it easier for people to buy their own home. Then it is most important that we make sure that enough good housing is built that people can afford. It requires that we continue to work on simplification and increase the construction speed. SV seems to have a completely different solution, i.e. increased tax. With SV's arrangements, young people who save for owner-occupied housing have to pay more tax, but in the SV's proposal we also see something as rare as a tax bill. They have promised to cut the document fee, which means that the more expensive the dwelling is, the larger the tax will be. Does SV really believe that tax relief for those who buy the largest houses is the most targeted measure to help more people enter the housing market?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e153	It was a strange question from a party that has given light in both property taxes and property taxes to the wealthiest, to an extent that we have almost never seen, and a party that obviously does not realize that if you lower construction costs and make more homes poor, less energy-efficient and not accessible to disabled people, homes will cost as much if there is demand for them, because the price is put into the market. I thought a party that the Right really understood how market forces work, and they don't work as the Right now claims. On the other hand, SV has proposed to ensure that the housing currently being built is provided with subsidies to make it energy-efficient, to provide grants for more affordable housing, and to have a housing support scheme and a start-up loan scheme that allows them to afford to enter the housing market with poor advice.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e160	SV believes that it is important to impose requirements on the use of taxpayers’ money and is opposed to tenders and private solutions. The claim is that this leads to a large proportion of taxpayers’ money, not for public purposes, but for private dividends. Private kindergartens save society for 2.5 billion. kr per year. The parents are more satisfied, and the employees have at least equal conditions. Despite this, use is made of, inter alia: Oslo has several hundred million dollars a year to build or re-municipalize kindergartens. It is not strange that SV has to increase municipal budgets. Is this SV calling for taxpayers' money? How does SV think it's using 2.5 billion? kr on a slightly lower offer is to claim taxpayers' money?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e169	The review that the representative had now is not correct in terms of either figures or facts. It is clear that there are very many billions of public – our – tax dollars for private operators in different parts of the public sector, in particular what goes on the management of the property that is built up with public dollars, where one has received money from the state or through parental payments, which is then a kind of gift that is subsequently traded at large billions. I'm asking the representative to think about it. Do you really think some investors go into this if there's not much to pick up? And if there's a lot of money to pick up, it's tax money that goes out to private investors, and not to more qualified employees in kindergartens and care -- to offer those who either need a nursery or a place in a nursing home.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e174	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e179	The Workers' Party's alternative budget would have provided better welfare services to citizens and more jobs throughout the country. The biggest single effort in our alternative budget is on welfare and jobs across the country. Where the government prioritizes the municipal sector, we prioritise it. It is essential for the Labour Party that Norway should be a country where we take care of each other. Therefore, we are strong defenders of the welfare state – and of the welfare municipalities. The word ‘municipality’ means ‘common’, and it is the local community which, through the municipality, helps the individual member of the community throughout his life — from the first meeting of the midwife service, through good childcare facilities and schools, the supply of clean drinking water to all residents every single day and a hygienic sewage system and to economic development and cultural experiences. We have activities, security and care as we get older and get other needs. One can even argue that the last resting place in the cemetery is also a municipal task. It's our safety net, which ensures us little differences and gives us opportunities and a real freedom to make choices in life. So money for the municipalities is money for us. We all live in a municipality, and that's why it's up to us when the right-wing government uses the municipal economy to balance the tax cuts to those who have the most of them. Our welfare effort is clear when we prioritize $2.50. kr more to the municipalities. It's a big number that can be hard to understand, so let me give you some examples: For $2.50, U.S. You could have financed about 2,300 nursing homes, or you could have had 3,500 more teachers in primary school. It could have provided wages and salaries to employ 4 to 100 health professionals, about 13 to 900 kindergartens or more than 17 000 apprenticeships. We prioritize the municipalities because we want stronger communities, and we want smaller differences across the country. From 1 January we go from 18 to 11 county municipalities. We want to give the new counties the opportunity to better facilitate businesses, new jobs and value creation. That is why, in our alternative budget, we have increased the funds for regional development by 200 million. kr. These are funds that the government has systematically cut for the last seven years. Instead, we will support the development of jobs across the country. Knowledge is the foundation of the individual human being to live a free life in modern society. At that time, the counties must have frameworks that can provide equivalent training, including in high school and as apprentices, throughout the country. The climate crisis is the greatest challenge facing humanity. A central part of the solution is to reduce emissions and pollution from transport. Collective transport is essential in order to meet the challenge, therefore the ability of county authorities to provide better services needs to be strengthened and not reduced. That's why we're also increasing the County Council's envelope by 500 million. in addition to the government's proposals, so that the counties can invest in higher education and public transport. From next year, county councils will assume a greater share of the responsibility for broadband development. The working party has great ambitions about broadband for everyone, and therefore we double the government's bet and follow up our promises from the National Transport Plan in 0.5 billion. kr to broadband annually. Modern network access to everyone across the country is at least as important as a good road network. With the decision the government parties make here today, they send an extra bill to the municipalities of 350 million. kr. The system of resource-intensive services ensures that all municipalities, irrespective of their size, can provide equivalent services to those with the greatest needs. This equivalence is weakened by government policies, and differences are increasing again. In our alternative state budget, we suggest that the municipalities get rid of this extra charge of 350 million. kr. It will contribute to smaller differences and strengthen the community. The Labour Party also has other budgetary commitments to strengthen the provision of services in the municipalities, including: 200 million. extra kr for the protection of children. This shows that it means something who controls. This shows that the Workers' Party prioritises more than 4 billion. kr more to municipalities and county councils than the government does in its budget. It strengthens the community and reduces differences. In the last few weeks, there have been reports of cuts in the municipal budgets. Nevertheless, in their self-satisfaction, the representatives of the government parties ignore the reality that exists in the municipalities. Perhaps the most obvious message came from the municipality of Osterøy, who wrote a separate cross-political appeal against the regime and warned that they are now very close by not being able to solve their statutory duties. That article was fully referred to by the pulpit of the Knutsen representative during the financial debate, so it should be well known. Nevertheless, the representatives of the government parties choose to reject it as ‘fake news’. They argue that the local economy is better than ever — it is repeated over and over again. It's not going to be any more correct for that reason. What's right is that many municipalities have had a positive net operating surplus in recent years. Extraordinary non-recurring income, inter alia: as a result of tax adjustments and lower pension and demographic costs than foreseen, are the reasons for the economic performance of municipalities. We're all happy about that, but it's not because of the government's policy, because these are revenues and lower costs that the government didn't foresee and didn't plan on. When we dealt with the state budget for the current year, the government's policy was to give total growth in the free income in the municipal sector estimated at -0.2 pst. on average for 2018 and 2019, as a whole. So the government bombed heavily on its tax estimate and was saved – even this year – by the fact that municipalities receive extraordinary one-off income. It's not because of government policy, it's despite government policy. And that's what's the problem: as a local government, you can't plan the operation of kindergartens, recruit teachers and take action for the lonely elderly with money you don't know you get when you make the budget. On the contrary, it is directly illegal – it is contrary to municipal law. The government's budget for 2020 gives municipalities a triple click: There is very low income growth, which means that many municipalities are at risk of having to cut off their services. They cut into schemes, so that municipalities have to take a greater part of the bill, or they impose tasks that are not fully financed on the municipalities. They restrict the ability of municipalities to raise their own income for welfare contributions through property taxes. In the government budget for 2020, the government has presented the worst financial arrangement for the free income in the municipal sector some government has presented in the last 15 years. The Right-wing Government proposes a growth in the free revenues of 0.3 pst. We see that the proposed growth in free income in the last two years is the lowest in a long time – where the 2020 budget is particularly poor. The government provides a very tight community economy, which the many testimonies from all over the country also carry commandments. Many municipalities have a real downturn in income. 84 pst. next year, municipalities will have less access to free income than they have this year. As usual, KS has carried out its survey, which shows that net operating performance in municipalities next year can be very low and well below the recommended level. It also shows that half of the municipalities with less than 10000 inhabitants are planning a negative net operating surplus in 2020. I believe that there is no basis for claiming that the government's municipal structure is good. In addition, the government sends extra payments to the municipalities, transfers tasks that are not fully financed, and limits the ability of municipalities to raise their own income. Here are some examples of it: The top-level funding scheme for resource-intensive services is cut by 350 million. kr. It is an extra bill that the majority in the Chamber today sends to Kommune-Norway. It restricts the possibility of collecting taxes on property. You cut the maximum to 5 per million next year and you've announced a further decrease to 4 per million from 2021. In addition, there is a reduction factor that provides a lower tax base. Many municipalities will notice that this income option is being limited, and there will have consequences for the provision of services in many places. Unemployment benefits and social assistance are assumed to be underfunded by the fact that municipalities receive social assistance costs higher than they are compensated for. Local government expenditure in the care sector has increased more than population trends suggest in recent years. When the municipal orders from the government are bad in addition, it means extra tight municipal budgets, as we also heard the representative Trellevik said on Dagsnytt 18 the other day. The weak municipal structure of the government does not equip the municipalities for the growing need within the care area. And to conclude, there will be inclusion in the grant of day-to-day activities for residents with dementia before the scheme is fully escalated. Many municipalities will lose money on it. The sum is not that we strengthen the community. The sum means that many municipalities are in a difficult financial situation when the budgets are to be adopted around the local government. There are many new local government representatives who are now sitting with a completely different reality than they imagined when they went to elections. They came up with ideas, ambitions and desires about how to develop their municipality. With the arrangement of the government, the task is to reduce the offer, not to improve it. For the Labour Party, it is essential that we take care of each other in Norway. Therefore, we will continue to be strong defenders of the welfare state – and of the municipal sector. That's why we're prioritizing about 4 billion. more to the sector in order to improve the provision of services to its citizens. That's why we're giving a stronger community priority, and we're going to have less differences.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e258	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e264	‘There is a need for a change of pace in the digitisation of the public sector’, writes the Workers’ Party in the setting. The problem is that you do something completely different. The organisation of the Workers' Party would have slowed down the digitisation projects in the public sector as a result of cuts in consultants in the state. They are used, inter alia: to create a new digital application process for parental leave or self-service solutions in the state road system. There are only some of the projects that have been launched by the state to make everyday life easier for people, but some of this we would have had to drop with the Workers' Party's proposals for government budget. What digitisation project is the Workers' Party's opinion not having the right to life?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e273	The working party is concerned with the digitisation of Norway. That's why we've also been clear that we need to build an infrastructure that gives people across the country access to new digital services, so that we can ensure equivalence. The market does not solve the challenges facing it. It is not that today you have modern and satisfying internet access across the country. It's a prerequisite that the right-hand government doesn't follow up. To the question from the representative, it should be noted that there is a great deal of competence in digitisation in the country. We are followers of building competence internally in the state and not just buying everything from outside. Making careful cuts in the purchase of consulting services is reasonable and reasonable, and we have a different policy to build in-house competence instead of just buying it from the outside and thus weakening the ability to also order skills in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e282	The Labour Party indicates that Norway has adopted the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, where access to school buildings is one of the obligations. But the entire 80 pst. by Norwegian schools are not available for pupils with disabilities. It was the red-green government that promoted the universal design law. The Progress Party then proposed setting a deadline for schools and introducing a grant scheme. The Labour Party voted against. The Workers' Party is proud of the outcome of its bill when the fasitator more than ten years later shows 20 pst. is it self-criticising that they voted against stricter requirements and grant schemes?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e289	I'm just as concerned as the representative of Kjenaas Kjos that we're going to have a society that's for everyone, where universal design is absolutely central. The municipalities have a significant responsibility to provide a welfare offer to everyone across the country, and the most important thing we can do to ensure that the municipalities can meet that offer is to give them room for action to do so. That's why we're giving a total of $4 billion. kr more than the government on next year's budget. It will give the municipalities greater scope for action in order to achieve universal design, as opposed to the government's municipal structure, which has been much tighter and significantly weaker in recent years than the Workers' Party has presented in its plans. Municipalities themselves must take responsibility and have the opportunity to prioritize universal design.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e294	I think I can join most of what the representative Sivertsen said in his statement about the description, but the Workers' Party's bet is too weak to achieve those goals. It is in one area this treatment really amazes me, and it is in particular in terms of resource-intensive services. That's the arrangement that the government has weakened by a billion. I see that the Workers' Party is correcting it, but they do not want to be on a proposal, at least not so far, to go through the scheme, so that you ensure that all relevant expenditure is taken into account. Especially now that hospital outreach practice is so strict, it has to be part of the foundation of municipal self-esteem, and we have to look at a system for those who are 67 years old. It's not a miracle if you're 67 years old. There will be no less need for staffing and good services for those in that situation, and the municipalities will need that money. Why does the Workers' Party not want to help improve the scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e301	The working party fully shares that concern, which I also explained in my article. The system of resource-intensive services, or the top-level funding scheme, is intended to provide and ensure equivalent services for all throughout the country, regardless of the municipality in which you live. It is a fact that some municipalities are small, and when they get users with very high needs, it is difficult for them to provide adequate services. That is why we believe the scheme is important. We also recognise that there has been a significant increase in the cost of the scheme, and that gives cause for concern. I acknowledge that for many municipalities it is a challenge that you also get older. But we who have once been in government also know that this must be seen in conjunction with the entire municipal income system. We have announced a review of it when we join the government. Then it's natural to include it in that review too, but in our alternative budget we set out a direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e306	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e311	The municipal sector has been strengthened by about 30 billion. kr at the time Erna Solberg has headed this government. The municipalities have a good surplus, and the surplus is above the municipal sector's own expectations. Also on the ROBEK list, which now counts only ten municipalities, is the lowest number since the municipalities were registered on this list. The right priority is to facilitate growth in the whole country, so that it is created works outside the main cities as well. But then we have to listen to the municipalities and local democracy in land and land-use matters, as this government does. In addition, more skills, roads and tax havens are needed to enable businesses to grow and develop and contribute to well-being across the country. We have started well, and we see that the Norwegian economy is in a good period of low unemployment while creating new jobs around the country. Then it's important that we hold back on public money. That's not the way it would have been with the financial arrangement of the opposition. We've heard that before today. The alternative to the opposition is to spend significantly more public money and to raise costs in the future, and this should, of course, be covered by increased taxes on business and people most. The fact that business is doing well is a good example of government policy. When the tax entrance of this house we're now inside, it shows that we can get as much as 5 billion. kr more in tax revenue than we assumed when we considered the revised budget and the municipal proposition in ours, it says quite a lot. The municipal budget suggests that the growth in free income to next year will be a total of 1.3 billion. kr. This covers the increase in both demographic and pension expenditure. For those who had to believe that neither nursery nor teacher standards were fully funded, despite the fact that the Education Association meant it in the budget hearings, the amount was 1.3 billion. a room for municipalities to invest in schools, kindergartens and psychiatry, for that purpose. So the opposition here is criticizing that the proportion of resource-requiring services is increasing by $50,000. We heard the representative Sivertsen instead. What he didn't mention was that the government of Stoltenberg led a big cut in that scheme in 2014. Then they would go from a state part of 80 pst. and down to someone and seventy percent. That system was very expensive. She started at 1.5 billion. And we're going to spend almost 11 billion dollars. kr on that scheme no. So I'm pretty impressed with the Labour Party, which is apparently able to solve a lot of the challenges the municipalities are facing, with just a few hundred million dollars in excess of the growth that the government is spending on its budget. The second billion Workers' Party adds are largely earmarked new tasks and underfunded new reforms for municipalities, which will once again bind the state for many years to come. The Labour Party writes in its comments that it must bring about a strong growth in the local economy. I'm surprised that the Labour Party in the budget is putting up a sharp increase in the growth of public expenditure for many years to come, despite the fact that we know that we are getting older and that there are fewer and fewer people working per pensioner, and that there are many municipalities moving away. It's a fact that we have to convert. Had Jens Stoltenberg been here at the house and seen what is happening here these days, we might not have seen such irresponsible development as we see in the Labour Party's budget. It is such that in the alternative budgets of the Labour Party, they propose the introduction of new reforms that are not fully funded, but it is a start, with the promise of more money from the Labour Party. Skelemate is a good example of such a bet. The municipal budget of the Labour Party can in no way impress the municipal sector. Bundled funds in both SFO and a number of other measures do not make the local economy any better. Then Sivertsen was inside a municipality called Osterøy, and they complained about the poor community economy. It's like this municipality was on the ROBEK list for all the years that the red-green fell. He didn't mention it in one word. There was this government's investment in the municipal sector, with over 30 billion. NOK, which meant that the municipality got out of the ROBEK list. It is such that Osterøy has challenges, including: with financial management. A number of new refugee buildings have been built that you had to build in a few months. There are different practices around Norway. There are probably a lot of municipalities that are struggling, and there are good reasons for that, but a lot of it can also be self-inflicted. One must take part in the responsibility for how a developer works, even in Kommune-Noreg.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e339	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e344	Despite the self-glorification we hear from the representative Trellevik about the municipal structure of the government, it is therefore an emergency call to the government – and it was the municipality of Osterøy that had it as its head. Now there are several municipalities that also come with emergency calls to the government. So Osterøy isn't alone, but they can be an example. Here, the Right, Left, Christian Party and Advance Party representatives have signed on, among others. the following: "But this year it looks darker than anything. We're very close to not even having good legal tasks. [[...]] With further cuts, we will be at the limit of crime in several sectors.’ I want to ask the representative Trellevik: Driver Osterøy's People's Party from Right, Christian People's Party, Left and Advance Party with 'fake news'?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e354	No, I'm not going to owe them for running fake news. I say in my post that there are many municipalities that feel that it may be demanding to get the budget to go together. Osterøy was a municipality that I named on the ROBEK list under the red-green government. Both I and the representative Lauvås have both our spokesmen, and we have never stood on the barricades and cheered for good community economics ever since we were spokesmen. So it is a bit in the nature of a spokesman to try to work for the municipality and for the municipality budget to be as good as possible. I am absolutely sure that the municipality of Osterøy is well run. Right is in the lead in Osterøy municipality, and it's focused on the inhabitants and their needs, so I'm absolutely sure they can get a good budget to live with also for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e362	We record that the government parties with the Right in front claim once again that the economy of Norwegian municipalities and county municipalities is healthy and good. The proof of this is that there are few municipalities on the ROBEK list. As in other companies, you do your utmost to avoid bankruptcy, and as others have pointed out here, it goes beyond the offer in Norwegian municipalities. Is the Right really saying that the municipalities are talking nonsense, and is it believed that the big KS survey we just got presented does not reflect reality? Does the Right believe that what the municipalities claim is major challenges in the performance of their services, do not have root in reality?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e369	There are many municipalities that have the challenge of getting things going together, but the fact is that the municipal budget has been strengthened by 30 billion. kr. A number of municipalities also came out of the list of bankruptcies, which were the words you used. There were 40-50 municipalities on that list when the red-green government ran. So it's much better in the municipality of Norway as we do today; I don't agree with the premise that there's such a bad place in the municipalities. To the investigation you refer to: Yes, there were some municipalities that were on her, and some municipalities thought it was tight, but what about all the others, then, the several hundred municipalities that chose not to participate in that investigation and answer her? That's what's interesting. What do they mean about the local economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e376	The President just wants to remind you that the speech is to be directed through the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e381	I've got a very long list of municipalities that have to cut off the budget that is now. It's big municipalities, it's small municipalities, it's central municipalities, it's district municipalities. At the same time, I don't know for what time, it's revealed that there's human rights violations, violence and abuse in the community care because there's not enough staff. That's not enough competence. You're alone in situations where there should be two, and you have to use drugs to calm people down when they really need care. This is a real situation, and that is the situation of municipal politicians when they are going to cut further because the Right cannot afford to finance these services. Does the Right believe that the serious situation now described in care can be resolved without more employees?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e388	It is quite possible that there are job vacancies around the municipality of Norway, it is probably quite certain. I agree that the competence also needs to be strengthened in Kommune-Noreg, so we are working a lot on it. Among other things, we have had a municipal reform to strengthen the professional environment, to strengthen municipalities, to strengthen the ability of municipalities to provide good health services to their citizens. We feel that many people have the potential to participate in a reform, but many municipalities have also chosen not to participate. I'm not going to go to the same list that the representative has, with all the municipalities that have signed up to say it's very bad in this country. There are probably a lot of municipalities that have chosen to stand outside of the reform that the government has seen and that we support well below, just to provide better services to our citizens. The local economy has been greatly strengthened in the time when the government of Solberg has run it. Over 30 B.C.E. kr has been allocated to the municipal sector, so they have good chances of providing good services.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e397	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e402	I will start this article as I started my article in the finance debate a few days ago. I'm doing this because I think the way we meet next year is related to the development of the last few years and how it is now. Our country is going well. The total number of unemployed is 2.2 pst, which is lower than when we took over after the red-green ones. The economy of municipalities is better than it is for a long time. By the end of 2013, 46 municipalities were on the ROBEK list, against only 10 municipalities now. While the number of full-time peasants under red-green rule sank by nearly 50 pst., the number under this government has risen. Over our period of government, there have been averages of eleven small cross-border schools this year. Under the red-green government, the number was more than twice as high each year. There were twice as many hospital emergencies and three times as many maternity wards under the red-green regime as under this government. Over our years in government, we have been able to make the municipalities stronger, the hospital cows shorter, the settlement queue closed, psychologists, physiotherapists, health nurses and ergot therapists out into the municipalities, provided for low immigration, low unemployment, while taxes are cut by over 25 billion. kr. By 2020, we will reach the target of two police officers per thousand inhabitants, and the transport budget has increased by a total of 80 pst. Goods have to move fast, and ordinary people have to have safe roads. So the numbers show that it's this government that takes care of the whole country. With this budget, this government has made sure to strengthen the municipalities with a total of 30 billion. kr. The average annual growth in the free income of the municipal sector per capita has been higher in our government period than in the red-green government. In 2019, we expect a VAT increase of SEK 4.9 billion. kr. This is going to add up to 1.5 billion. kr, which was announced in the revised national budget in spring. The municipalities therefore enter 2020 with a good financial basis. The growth of free income is SEK 1.3 billion. kr. This covers both increased demographic and pension expenditure, and also provides room to strengthen the provision of services within the drug field by 400 million. kr and early school effort of 150 million. kr. The whole growth of free income goes to municipalities in 2020. The income of counties is actually kept around unchanged compared to 2019. Municipalities have a high potential to improve the efficiency of their operation. With an efficiency of 0.5 pst. be released for a total of 1,3 billion. kr. The government is committed to giving municipalities greater room for action over their own funds and therefore proposes to replace a number of earmarked grants that the municipalities have had to apply for and report on, rather than including them in the ordinary grants to the municipalities. Overall, the municipal sector will receive 3.6 billion in 2020. kr for which they can decide what to use, where they were previously earmarked by the State. That's good for municipal autonomy. There is a clear distinction between the governmental parties and the opposition. Where all parties talk about local priorities and autonomy for the municipalities, there are completely different things happening in this room. The opposition has zero confidence in the municipalities. In any case, it is pointed out that the State must enter, whether the municipalities will succeed. It is eartagled and detailed in all areas. The government is working to reduce state detail management and bureaucracy, spread power and authority and build society from below. Norwegian society is undergoing a significant transformation phase. Conversions from a highly oil-based economy and demographic developments in the population require that government in both state, state and municipality should be able to convert and use resources efficiently and in accordance with the needs of the population. Bets on a simpler everyday life for people most have to keep going. It's about renewal, simplification and improvement. Municipalities need a high level of competence and new competences. Some municipalities are still too small to meet the demands of the future on diversity and skills. Departure is about young people with a completed exam in their backpack that they are not allowed to use in a professional environment. As a result, young people move out of the districts. Then we need further changes in the municipal structure in the future, and it is therefore good that the government maintains the positive instruments to stimulate voluntary community mergers. The opposition stands united to criticise the cuts as a result of the red tape and efficiency reform. Nevertheless, all opposition parties choose to use this space for their own priorities rather than to return it to each state activity, even though they consider the cuts to be of little concrete nature and appear to be flat cheese needs without direction. At the same time, the same parties are very much talking about a reform of trust. So the opposition wants the floors to be trusted while they should be detailed. It's also worth noting that the centerpart doesn't seem to have cheesesuits and 0.5 pst. hold, and one may wonder which tool the Centre Party intends to use. In 2016, the government presented a national strategy for the use of cloud services, which describes how public and private businesses can increase the scope for choosing cloud services where it will deliver the best results and will be the most cost-effective solution. This budget allocates 11 million. kr for the establishment of a cloud service market, where public undertakings can obtain support in procurement processes and be better able to set up proper requirements and choose correct and secure services. Digitalisation is an important tool for achieving a more efficient public sector, and the co-financing mechanism for socio-economically profitable digitisation projects has produced good results. Norway has a strong tradition of people owning their own homes, and the goal is for most people to have this opportunity. Over the years, the government has targeted and improved housing support. Furthermore, in government budget proposals for 2020, the government is committed to supporting housing in order to combat child poverty. The Government will provide for an adaptation concerning municipal mergers that enter into force on 1 January 2020, where, in some cases, press municipalities with particularly high butchery ceilings are merged with neighbouring municipalities that have not had it. In order to treat all beneficiaries of housing in the same municipality in a non-discriminatory manner, it is assumed that the highest butchers’ ceilings will apply throughout the whole of the new municipality. Recipients of housing aid receive on average a higher amount than in 2013. A falling number of recipients is due to an increase in real income for several of those who have previously received housing support and the fact that several have left for work. The housing aid has been increased steadily and has been limited in recent years. Among other things, the boute poison has increased repeatedly, and it has become easier to get housing support in the book collective. A permanent compensation system is in place so that it does not lead to the loss of those who received housing support before the reform. Since 2017, up-to-date equation data have been used, which have contributed to significantly fewer error payments. The housing aid has been a stable proportion of the beneficiary’s housing expenditure since 2014, while the largest fall in the proportion of the building charges covered by housing support came under the red-green government. There is a great need for more housing in the years to come, and the government will make the best possible arrangements for increased development. Public regulation shall not unnecessarily delay or defuse housing and important simplification measures contributing to faster development have been implemented. It is the municipalities that have a responsibility to help disadvantaged people obtain and maintain a suitable housing. A greater degree of framework management allows municipalities to make local priorities and spend less resources on bureaucracy. There are few good systems to search, assign and manage municipal rental homes. Nor is there a good national overview of this housing stock. The consequences are that it is difficult for citizens to apply for municipal housing, and that the length of the procedure is often long. It is therefore proposed to increase the appropriation by 30 million. kr to develop new solutions for municipally disposed dwellings. Available data on housing stock in Norway show that the majority of dwellings are not adapted to persons unable to walk on stairs. More and more people are planning better for old age by moving to more suitable housing while still healthy and fast. Mainly, it is a responsibility for individuals to obtain accommodation adapted to their own living conditions. However, it will be necessary to grant grants for the design and installation of a lift, while encouraging as much planning as possible for old age itself. Since 2013, the government has increased the allocations for the Sameting by over 100 million. kr. The 2020 allocation will provide a good framework for the pooling of work next year. An increase of 13 million has been proposed. kr for the follow-up of the heart language. In addition, appropriations for other Sami purposes, such as museum buildings, Sami learning materials, reindeer management agreement and an alternative to Sámi-samian-qualified violent offices, are increased by 80 million. kr. In total, the government proposes a grant for Sami purposes of over 1.1 billion. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e446	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e451	The Labour Party prioritises the large amount of money on services that citizens need in everyday life — kindergarten, school, care for the elderly and health care. The Labour Party increases the income of the municipal sector by 3 billion. In addition to the government's proposals in our alternative budget. We say no to big tax cuts to those who have the most, to have money for good services and make less difference. In the state budget, the government has provided the worst community structure ever provided by some government in the last 15 years. In addition, the government sends extra billing to municipalities for resource-intensive services that, according to KS, have been for more than 1 billion in recent years. kr. Is the Progress Party proud of such starvation of the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e456	I am proud that we have made sure that the municipalities have had a better economic development and a better economic everyday life than they had under the red-green government. Then I find that in the eight years we had a red-green government, I sat in this room, and then the Workers' Party boasted of that arrangement. And when the municipalities have a better economy today than they had during the Workers' Party's reign, it's a little hard to understand claims of starvation. Then, in that case, the Workers' Party has come to a recognition today that the budgets they themselves had some years ago were miserable. I find that all municipalities show good numbers, and that is the most important thing in the job we have to do here, and then the municipal politicians have to do their job in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e461	The representative said in his statement that the municipalities are going into 2020 with a good financial basis for strengthening the service provision. This is a ghastly contrast to the media surveys we see all around Norway, and it is a ghastly contrast to the KS report that the Committee received this week. Half of all municipalities under 10 000 inhabitants budget with negative operating results; they have to take out funds to survive. 75 pst. says that the budgetary process is more demanding than ever. Only the staffing standard in kindergartens is underfunded by 700 million. kr. KS has estimated that municipalities are forced to reduce the provision of services and to streamline to a total of about 6 billion. kr. Is the representative saying that KS is on the wrong track and that this is ‘fake news’? Is it that people out there don't understand what they're doing?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e469	I'm really wondering what's different in those statements there compared to previous years. Every year when the budget is presented, as far back as I can remember – and I have been here for 14 years – KS has pointed out that it is difficult for the municipalities, or the municipalities have pointed out that it is difficult for them. I believe that no matter how much you grant to the municipalities, they will always want more. And I get that, because you have big ambitions and you want a lot. I'm not saying that the municipalities are in a hurry of money, but we know that their funds have grown considerably under this government, and they have invested enormously in recent years. So the starting point is very good, but I want to point out that the media releases and the suture that are out in the media are like this every year and have always been like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e474	It is possible the Progress Party believes it is suspense when employees in the care report violence, that they have to lock in senile denments, and that they have to dip them down because there are not enough employees in the care. The Progress Party has had and has the Senior Minister – that is the other one now – and she is obviously quite shocked and knows nothing about this. But that's what this community economy is all about, and I'm on a long list. There are municipalities that have had to cut to balance the budget, as the government has ordered, because there is too little money. They've lost funds. Now they brave more. For example, Hustadvika, a merged municipality, now has to take 42 million. kr. Senja, a merged municipality, has to take $41 million. kr and Arendal 14 mill. in the care of the elderly. Why not take responsibility for the Progress Party, now that it is also an older minister, and ensure that there is enough staff in the care of the elderly in all municipalities in the country – not just in a few municipalities – so that all older people can be safe and employees are free from violence at work?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e481	First, I would just like to point out that the Minister of the Elderly was aware that there were such conditions in some places, but that the extent shocked her. The representative knows very well that what she really wants is government management of the care of the elderly. As it is today, it is the municipality that governs it. Then the Progress Party in government cannot decide over the municipalities. But we wanted it to be overthrown by the state. That is why we have a pilot project on it with state funding, and the municipalities can provide exactly the service that SV wants. But still, SV will remove that project, so it's hard to understand what SV really wants. Should the municipalities do that job, or should the state do it? I think SV will have to decide about that soon. But if SV wants to help move it over to the state, the Progress Party is ready right away, and the Senior Minister can go in and better control this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e486	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e491	Municipalities and county councils provide basic welfare services to all residents of Norway. They are being given the responsibility for increasing numbers of tasks and increased costs to secure services for citizens, without looking back at any of them in the government's budget for 2020. The government budget does not cover the sum of the tasks entrusted to municipalities. The funds are tied up in government bets, they are not compensated for expenditure increases, and local authorities' own income opportunities are tightened up. There are a number of increased costs for which municipalities are not compensated. The standard of manning and pedagogical work introduced for kindergartens is underfunded. Local authorities have experienced a sharp increase in the cost of care services in recent years, far beyond price increases. The change in the redundancy system means that more people need social assistance, and so does changes in the housing support system. This must be covered by the municipalities themselves. In addition, municipalities have been given increased responsibility to finance resource-intensive services. This has been applied to the municipalities approx. 1 billion. kr in the last four years for which they have not been compensated. In some municipalities, the municipal share has increased so strongly that they locally consider imposing property taxes to finance increased costs for resource-intensive services. When there are only perhaps one or two users in the municipality who receive this, and everyone knows who it is, we can imagine the burden they have when they are somehow blamed for the introduction of property taxes. It's an unsustainable situation. The State must ensure predictable financing of these services. Therefore, we will have a comprehensive review of the resource-intensive services system and ensure that all relevant costs are included in the basis of municipal ownership. I want to refer to the KS survey for municipalities and county municipalities. Half of all municipalities under 10 000 inhabitants budget with negative operating surplus in 2020. 75 pst. by all municipalities, the budgetary effort in 2020 is more demanding than ever. Budgeted net operating surplus has halved in the last two years. Municipalities are forced to streamline and implement savings measures for 6 billion. in 2020. It is in stark contrast to the picture the government is trying to draw. At the same time as several tasks are assigned to municipalities, they are less likely to travel, for example: with reduced taxes on property. The level of property taxes is historically high and record municipalities have introduced property taxes in the period of the government of Solberg. The government's policy has a large part of the blame for that. Municipalities have not received sufficient transfers to handle the tasks they have, and the bill is rolled over to the inhabitants. The best way to eliminate property taxes is to increase transfers to municipalities so that they can make necessary investments and provide good services without being forced to impose property taxes. In the suspension, the Centre Party also proposes to establish a permanent compensation scheme for the loss of income in respect of property taxes on works and uses. The Centre Party has prioritised a significant strengthening of the municipal and county economy in its alternative budget. With $2.50 a.m. NOK to the municipalities and SEK 1.9 billion. kr to the county councils we strengthen the services of ordinary people. This is absolutely necessary if we are to be able to maintain the service provision. An active district policy aimed at enabling people to live and work where they wish, and throughout the country, is essential for growth and value creation. If people are to live throughout the country, the big community must provide security, good services and facilitate jobs in all municipalities. Services such as police, ambulances, and food supply are just as important for people in the city as they are in the city. Security is equally important wherever you live. Education and basic infrastructure such as roads, ferries, broadband and public transport are prerequisites for our success in developing the whole country. The organisation of state jobs is also an important factor. The last proposal in the range of centralised measures is that municipal tax offices should be publicised. Experience from Denmark suggests that it is not very smart at all. The recovery rate may decrease, and the decision means the loss of skilled jobs in the districts. The government's clock belief that economies of scale are the solution to everything, harmonizes poorly with geography and housing patterns in Norway. The majority of the population should enable municipalities to provide good services, not three new rounds of community aggregation down the heads of local people. Redistribution from small to large municipalities via the income system contributes to increasing disparities between municipalities. The central party considers that the country's transfers to the municipalities should ensure that everyone has the opportunity to provide equivalent services. Another thing I have received many enquiries about is the funding of the volunteer agencies. When the grant from 2021 is to be allocated on the basis of population, many municipalities will lose most of the aid to their central government. Many have already begun to downgrade. The government could choose to continue the grant as it is distributed today; this is not even a question of the amount of the grant, just a continuation of the allocation. Given the consequences for many volunteer centres, I hope the government will reconsider the conversion and do as they did with the veterinary grant, which has the exact same challenge. Fortunately, they have continued the distribution of the day, even though they voted against our proposal in June. It's high time we met the opportunities for District Norway. By means of urban growth agreements, billions are transferred to the big cities, while smaller municipalities are being fed with increasingly narrow frames and are being told to join forces. The centre party has launched building growth agreements. The aim is to facilitate business development and living communities throughout the country. There are large areas in Norway that are not being exploited and that, with a targeted industrial policy, have a high potential for growth if we get to these rural growth agreements. That's why we want to give 12 billion priority. DKK over 10 years for building growth agreements. Some of the most critical of the government's proposals for the state budget is for the county municipalities. The KS budget study shows that it is very difficult to get budgets in the counties to jump. The merging processes, tighter financial frameworks and uncertainty about the financing of new tasks are the main reasons why they are worse than ever. The lack of funding for the new tasks is a repetition, both in terms of road administration and cultural memory management, etc. The majority of county municipalities point out that the maintenance allowance will increase with the budget limits they have now received. There is only one county that budgets with net operating surplus corresponding to the Technical Calculation Committee recommend. The counties don't get the means they need to solve the problems. The decision on the financing of the county road administration came too late, less than two months before the counties took over the task, and equipment has not yet been clarified. At least the counties shall not be covered for all necessary equipment, nor shall they be covered for conversion costs. It will affect the services for which they are already responsible, in particular the county roads. The Centre Party has proposed, in its alternative budget, increased frameworks for the county councils to enable them to operate in the maintenance and renewal of the county road network, to carry out step-by-step and flood prevention and to work on regional development. The size has decided that all public transport by sea shall be zero and low-emission transport by 2025. This has led to enormous extra costs for the counties, which are not compensated. It is proposed in the Central Party's alternative budget for 2020 to 200 million. kr for climate-friendly ferries and boats. We propose in the vote that the necessary allocation be made to speedboats as soon as possible. Thus, the counties have been reduced in their economic space while the government's stated objective of regional reform is to strengthen the role of county councils as regional development actors. The funds have been more than halved since the 2013 level. This isn't hanging out in the jump. With the Forces of the Center Party, with over $4 billion. In the municipal sector, we would get more teachers, more kindergarten teachers, more senior care staff, upgrading the county roads, a county road billionaire – a programme of 10 billion. NOK over 10 years – and we would have made sure that the county councils and municipalities had fully financed the new tasks that we have assigned them. Finally, I would like to address the proposals of the Centre Party that have not already been addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e533	Then the representative Heidi Greni has drawn up the proposals which she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e540	The centre party appears to be the biggest critic of government reforms and as the best friend in the districts – at least in the election campaign. In the financial debate, the representative, Henrik Asheim, noted that there was a long way between rhetoric and action in the Central Party's alternative budget. This was a budget he thought even the Senter party would protest against if it did not come from them himself, he said. They keep virtually all the government reforms, but in their budgets they put up to cut in a number of state jobs around the country. They cut the Peace Corps in Førde after the government moved it out. They cut in the Election Directorate in Tønsberg after the government moved it out. All in all, they're cutting $1.7 billion. kr at the top of the ABE reform, with which the opposition parties have given a lot of attention, but chose not to reverse themselves. My question is, if the government had proposed this, wouldn't the Center Party call it centralization?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e549	No, none of the proposals mentioned by the representative have anything to do with centralisation. Centralisation is the jobs that the government has now moved from the districts to the cities. We can mention the police act, and we can mention the tax state, which is now being moved. It represents a lot for the competence environment around the municipalities. We can mention the proposal to centralise the rights of property, for example, and we can mention the emergency services, which are severely weakened in the districts once jobs have been moved. We can't have jobs just to have district jobs, and the cuts we have there, we view as unnecessary bureaucracy. I have to say that when I see that the state had so-called alien services, leased services, for 24.9 billion. kr in 2018, there must be the opportunity to find some revenue on bureaucracy and on those costs, so that we can translate them into services to people throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e556	Now we learned something new: putting down state jobs in districts is not centralisation. The opposition is very concerned to point out that only with their community arrangements will we have good care for the elderly. It's just about money. Nevertheless, the Centre Party will remove the scheme for the municipalities under the State funding scheme for care services. This is when the argument is that care for the elderly does not improve with increased resources. In this case, the centre party has chosen not to listen to what their own local representatives think. If good care for the elderly is not about money, what does the Central Party think it's really about?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e565	With regard to the state funding of that project, it was probably a handful of municipalities of the time that 428 chose to participate in that project. It should perhaps call some bells for the government when it was so unattractive that it is not a good project like Kommune-Norway's demand. Then, of course, the funds are allocated to the handful of municipalities that finally took the chance to participate. Rather, we want those funds to be used for good care of the elderly throughout the country. We're strengthening the municipalities' economy by 2.5 billion. kr. Of course, there will be a lot of good care for the elderly, there will be a lot of kindergarten teachers and a lot of teaching positions, and there will be a room for action for Norwegian municipalities to make local priorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e573	It's interesting, the representative Grenis posts, where she's a swing in, among other things. Sam's road administration, which I've known for a long time that the Central Party has really wanted to relocate to the regions, to the counties. Not least, I think it is very interesting that the same representative takes up the maintenance work on the county roads, when we know which state council transferred it to the county municipalities. She is obviously also against the fact that counties and municipalities will have more tasks. It's also quite interesting, what she replicates in one of the previous posts – that we can't have jobs just to have district jobs. In view of that, I understand why she wants to drop the Election Directorate in Tønsberg and transfer it to Oslo. That must be a consequence. Is there a kind of policy that the Central Party will see more of in the future – that one transfers such jobs from the districts to the capital?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e580	The centre party will ensure that the necessary jobs are also distributed in the districts as far as possible. We are not going to create unnecessary jobs in the districts just to increase bureaucracy, as today's government has done. We see the Election Directorate as a completely unnecessary extension of bureaucracy. As far as Sam's road administration is concerned, the Senter party was a driver to get it to the county municipalities, but we had as a clear assumption and the Storting had a clear premise at the time that this was to be fully financed. Now we have the fasit. This is not fully financed and the conversion costs are not fully financed. Data costs are not financed. It is quite unclear what they will get from equipment, and there is also no agreement between the county councils and the state road authority on how many years this is about. In addition, they received information on this two – in practice one and a half – months before adopting their own budget, and it is unheard of.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e587	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e592	Freedom for the Left is to have exactly the same opportunities and dreams regardless of where you live, and what kind of environment you grow up in. It's an ambitious concept of freedom you add, it's one of the most important issues in Norwegian politics. If you come from a small municipality with less than 5,000 inhabitants, or if you live in one of the thickest cities, you should have nothing to say. We, as a nation, are to provide the citizens with the same quality of service and service, a good school throughout the country, and not least the necessary help to get up when life faces challenges. There is a job that never ends, but without exaggerating, I would say that the assumptions that the municipalities and the counties are able to live up to the ambitions of the Left have never been better. Since 2017, the government has strengthened the municipal sector by 30 billion. kr. The real growth in free income for next year is SEK 1.3 billion. NOK – in these numbers we'll find 400 million. SEK for early school effort, 150 million. NOK to the escalating plan for the drug field and in addition we increase the housing support. The full year’s impact for 2020 is about 225 million. kr. This is what the Left calls facilitating freedom – more money for those who need it, and a little extra help, so that you feel free and have the same opportunities as everyone else to succeed in life. But it demands that we, as politicians, take into account the realities of this. With reality, I think that's how reality is, that major challenges lie ahead of us, and the Norway Map should have changed a long time ago. The regional reform has not had an easy birth. The will to change among us is largely marked by scepticism, and the negative forces are driven forward as plowing in the field, with a heavy and confident dinghy horse ahead – exactly the same forces as the devastation of former Secretary of State Åslaug Haga, who even saw that the changes were necessary. If not as ambitious as Haga, the government was able to give the country a much-needed reform that will finally take effect in less than one month, despite the fact that it was known that some parties would probably collect one cheap political victor after another. When they were able to stop their own municipal minister at the time, they could only fantasize about what it would be like this time. Unfortunately, the reactions have gone a little beyond imagination. We are deeply concerned about how some parties choose to blackmail and polarise Norwegian debate on district policy. The games that foreshadow such a big worry about how things are going in District Norway, and tell us how wrong things are, have no means of improving that situation. The truth is, they don't have the recipe either. So they're criticizing the cake, but they have no idea how to improve the recipe. Ida, some suggestions are, but it's really not in line with the reactions the government has been exposed to. The regional reform has led to the transfer of tasks in the fields of transport, integration, competence and industrial development. It is a reform that has made it possible. We've also had fewer and a few larger municipalities in the country, and I look forward to finding peace of mind, both to developing identity creation and to making the different cultures work together. It is important to have time to show that things can work, so that we can allow the new municipalities to be role models and sources of inspiration when it comes to further mergers between other municipalities. In my opinion, this is absolutely necessary, because the tasks that are expected will be large, and not least for all the small municipalities it will be overwhelming to deal with them with fewer and fewer people of working age. Then it is important to build units that can take on such tasks, precisely to ensure that the inhabitants are free to the same type of services and everything else throughout the country. And deep down, I think most people agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e607	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e612	The government's two major public sector projects are point 1: even more New Public Management, which means even more reporting and playing with numbers and less trust in employees to provide better welfare services to the population, and point 2: even more privatisation and look to Sweden, as they say – even earmarking money for municipalities that want to privatize more. Doesn't that representative worry? When you look at Sweden, it means lower pay and working conditions for the employees, more profit for the major international companies, poorer offers for the inhabitants and even more bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e617	I have great faith in using my own lessons. If you need to look at neighboring countries, I don't know, but based on what has been presented, and through the opportunities that the new municipalities will be able to provide, including from the representative's own district, I think we'll get powerful municipalities in several fields. In the case of my own municipality, which is merged in the new year to be part of Steinkjer, it is during the time after it was decided to merge, on the stairs for approx. 2 billion. kr. It shows that by being able to focus more on business development and business, we are able to create more jobs, which in turn provide more well-being for the population. It seems at least I'm very good.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e622	The representative started his post by saying that the left was concerned that there should be an equal quality of service wherever one lived in the country. Then it's a little strange that the Left has been a driver to change the income system so that all municipalities with fewer than 20,000 inhabitants – almost everyone, at least – have lost a lot on the income system, and we've been worried about the increased inequality in Municipality-Norway in the last five to six years. Now, in the name of truth, it is said that this year also complains to the large municipalities. The new thing is that the big city councils now have to have huge cuts, and the municipalities that have done bundling are the ones we get the most feedback from that they don't get to jump – there are huge cuts in the service offer, and they can't maintain the good quality they had until they joined up. At the same time, half of the municipalities with fewer than 10,000 inhabitants are now budgeting with negative results. How will the representative explain that there will be equality of services?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e629	The representative has been working on municipal and county policies largely coherently since 1995. My memory says that there have been different challenges under any government that has been sitting, including for the representative of the Grenis party – they sat with the municipal minister. I remember, as a local government representative and rapporteur at the time, that we had to do relatively large cuts to get this together. As I said instead, it is clear that there will also be some challenges in the budgets around that will be adopted in the different municipalities just before Christmas, but there are no greater challenges than it is fully possible to cope with. And so it is that we also have to follow in time, and some, as I see in my new municipality, Steinkjer, add up to a significant digitization in many fields. I think there are also great opportunities for other municipalities to do that, even though it may not be the case in the representative of Greni's home district.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e636	It is possible that I heard poorly, but I was unable to get a single word from the Left that the whole administration and the whole municipal sector are important when it comes to the environment and climate. SV has made several suggestions in this setting, including: that we should use the regional policy instruments more to cut emissions in the businesses we set up. We have proposed energy-flexible heating solutions in large buildings, so that we do not use the power to fire crows. We have asked the government to assess how loans and grants for rehabilitation, accessibility and home care and energy efficiency can be made available and coordinated. We have asked the government to establish competence in the municipal sector in the areas of environment, biodiversity and climate, as well as to fund zero-emission public transport in the local economy. This will contribute to large emissions reductions and to industrial development. Why is the Left not interested in this?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e643	I don't think we have much need to fire the crow either in Hedmarken or in Trøndelag. One of the big grips that apply over time is just getting zero-emission boats, vessels and ferries. I think it is a little strange that the representative Andersen has not come to realize that it is one of the big grips that has happened during the last period. It's a little strange that it doesn't matter to see it, seen in the light of this. But we have put in incentives for both municipalities and municipalities for better and more environmental adaptation, not least to take care of the climate. The representative knows that very well. So, of course, the representative knows very well that it won't be so that we can pick individual items where we see that there could be agreement with a party that isn't in government. That's not how the government or our board works.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e651	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e656	It's not that long since we left behind a local election. There are several thousand people elected around the municipalities, and now in the new regions. Some have started, while others are in the starting pit to start, and we are well here in this room to create framework conditions around that work. The debate so far has focused enormously on the size of the financial framework, and that is important. But I have political memory – back to the last millennium, even – and the debate here is incredibly recognizable: a position that struggles to show its advantage and good work, and an opposition that black paints something absolutely horrible. The two colors that stand for me now are black and white, but I really hope we can use the whole palette, use the shades. Local and regional policies are not just money, they are creativity, innovation and not least priority. Yes, the government and the Christian People's Party can be criticized for making mistakes, but we have put forward something we believe in. One can discuss the amount of money and the way a person does it, but one cannot discuss what motives you have to drive development forward. That value vision is called perverseness is going far above the line. I'm incredibly humble to the values we're all sitting with in this room, even though I disagree with some of the solutions that come out. The framework will always feel tight, and I think the rapporteurs are also downgraded. A rapporteur will tell us what the situation is like in his own municipality, but to dismiss the fact that a rapporteur will always complain, that is not true. The other side of a rapporteur's job is to see what opportunities you have within the framework. What pictures do we signal out to the steady man and woman here in Norway? We signal that life is constantly getting more, instead of looking at what we have, and how we can develop it in the best possible way. Unlimited frameworks provide no incentives for either efficiency or new development. An organisation that is allowed to rest for year after year and is only charged with funds becomes an outsourcing organisation. It'll be more, not less, bureaucracy. What future society do we want? What are the qualities of municipal services? Municipal and county services should not be the same; they should be equivalent because the country is different. We have a business life that goes down in the districts, but we're missing hands. We have demographic challenges, but we have a strict framework for who will live in the country. Digitalization is much more than expanding broadband across the country. Broadband is only the basis for the infrastructure and what is to be done. Developments to take place in the municipal sector, together with the KS and the state, are incredibly important and necessary. We're going to have new instruments in all municipal areas, it's elderly care, plan and construction, yes, all areas. Then public and private must join forces to create the best possible framework to achieve it, because technology is going to challenge us. Technology is going to be our friend, but neither is it going to be at the expense of the society we want. We have to look at the possibilities. I'm fully aware of the constraints, and I can't stand here saying that we've achieved what we wanted. But we still want to go further.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e673	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e678	The State budget indicates that the tax collection function is to be transferred from the municipalities to the State from 1 June 2020 onwards. Then a lot of money is deducted from the municipal framework, 1.1 billion. kr, as it says. Then we have received letters from up to several, and I have also received letters from the rapporteur in the municipality of Kristiansand. That's where they spend about $13 million today. kr of the task to be transferred to the country and deducted 21.4 million. NOK because they lose that task. Why does the representative Bransdal think removing tax offices from municipalities is a good idea? And what will the Christian People's Party and the representative Bransdal answer the politicians in Kristiansand when they lose jobs as well as money?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e685	The Christian People's Party does not believe that centralising tax collection offices is a good idea, but we have agreed. It's a lost cause for us. Where tax collection offices are to be centralised, the statement is that the amount withdrawn from the framework is the same as that which the municipalities have been given to do. Then it can be answered: Yes, then the municipalities were much more effective in carrying out that task than the state would be. So it travels some dilemmas. The government has proposed this, and this Christian People's Party has accepted. If you have the unfortunate effects, you have to look at it. But the extract is the same as the article in the frame.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e690	When we discussed the municipal proposition, we had a reply about it with veterinary preparedness and the matter with volunteer agencies. These are two issues that are completely parallel. If it is included in the framework, municipalities will not be able to finance that service, because the funds will be centralised from the small municipalities and from the large ones, and a certain starting point is required to maintain a volunteer centre – just as basic funding is required to maintain veterinary preparedness. I have seen that the Central Party and the Christian People's Party have agreed very much that the volunteers are important around, and that the funding that is today is necessary for this to be maintained. We already see small municipalities warning that they have to put down if this is put in the framework. Does the Christian People's Party believe that this is a good idea, or will the Christian People's Party fight for the government's understanding of the volunteers, as well as veterinary preparedness?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e697	I believe the government has a large portion with good reason, so first of all, I want to make a statement. This designation for volunteer centres is going to go over four years, and that's the last year we're going to go into. So it can be said that in this way the municipalities have had time to prepare to assume responsibility for the volunteer agencies, like many other reforms being introduced. Then the Christian People's Party is also very much for local self-government and the removal of earmarked funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e706	One of the things that shows the values we make is how we dispose of money, and one of the areas where I really miss the Christian People's Party a day is the area of rights for people with disabilities. That's now 80 pst. by schools in Norway where a student who needs universal design is unable to attend. It's a human right for children to be able to attend their secondary school. It's human dignity. Six years have passed – the Christian People’s Party has not been in government for so long, but they have supported it – and come two action plans, and in the first of them all deadlines have been removed for when things should be universally designed. SV believes that we now at least have to start with Roadmap: Universally designed secondary school 2030, so that students can go to their secondary school – if they want to. Does the representative also feel that this should be done with words, not money?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e711	My answer is no. I don't mean that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e716	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e721	The government facilitates living local democracy, by continuing to strengthen the local economy and by shifting power and authority from state to state closer to population. The municipal sector has been strengthened by about 30 billion. kr under this government. In each budget presented by the government, we have ensured that growth in free income, in addition to covering increased demographic and pension costs, has also provided a space for action to further strengthen services. Every year, we have proposed that growth in free income should cover important areas of activity, such as ageing, drug use, habilitation and rehabilitation, and early childhood and school interventions. The government's investment in the municipal sector over many years has resulted in good overall performance for municipalities, and the number of municipalities in economic difficulties is historically low. The number of municipalities in ROBEK is now 10, while the number was between 40 and 50 in the period 2007–2016. At the same time, there is growth in the provision of services by municipalities. In 2020, the government is adding up to a real growth in free income of 1.3 billion. kr. Growth in income covers increased costs due to changes in population composition and increased expenditure on pensions. Some of the government's main efforts are proposed to be covered in the growth of free income. That's 400 million. kr for early school effort and 150 million. kr to the escalating plan on the ground. We have announced a VAT increase in the municipal sector of SEK 4.9 billion. kr in 2019. It's going to add up to 1.5 billion. kr in VAT growth that was notified in connection with the revised national budget in spring. The sector therefore enters 2020 with a good economic base. Strengthening local democracy has been fundamental to the government. Local self-government is statutory in the new municipal law. Increased use of framework funding provides local space for action and better and more efficient services. In 2020, we will include a number of grants in the framework grant, totaling approximately 3.6 billion. kr. Through the regional reform, we decentralise power and authority from the state to new, stronger county municipalities. New tasks and instruments provide an increased scope for action and a basis for more holistic priorities tailored to the needs of citizens and businesses and for more efficient management. That we should continue to have a living local democracy, with strong welfare municipalities that are equipped for the future, is also the reason why the government took the initiative in the community reform. From the new year we get 356 municipalities in Norway, but we are not in target. There will still be good and long-term economic instruments for municipalities that want to merge. Everyone needs a safe and good dwelling. The government has clear ambitions in the housing social field. No one shall be homeless and several disadvantaged persons shall be given the opportunity to own their own dwellings. The government has strengthened housing support over several years, and the increase continues in 2020. In 2019, housing aid increased by 126 million. to combat child poverty. The full-year impact in 2020 is 225 million. kr. In 2020, 22,000 families with children and other large households are thus fully counted against year-on-year changes, which means up to NOK 13 300 more in housing aid each year. In order for more disadvantaged people to have access to suitable rental accommodation, the government also proposes 30 million. kr every year for three years to help municipalities develop digital solutions for seeking, awarding and managing municipal rental housing. In order to contribute to the development and enhancement of value creation, the government continues to update map and property information. The matricule is Norway's official register of real estate, on which many state, municipal and private businesses depend. In 2018 it was granted 15 million. kr to restate the matrix, and the government is now proposing a further increase of 30 million. kr for upgrading the matrix. It will provide savings, increased utility and added value for the public sector, for business and for citizens. Work continues on a nationally detailed elevation model. The overall framework for the programme is 420 million. kr. Detailed height data will be available, among others. strengthen the basis for climate adaptation and flood and anti-slip protection. The Government will also launch a pilot project for marine land maps to identify natural resources in coastal areas. Better data is expected, inter alia: to contribute to the improvement of the location of new rearing facilities. The construction activity of state-owned construction projects will be reduced in 2020 compared to 2019, but remains at a high level. The new government quarter shall become a well-functioning, accessible and green part of the capital. Compared to the situation before 22 July 2011, it becomes more open and more secure pedestrian and bicycle connections between east and west. At the same time, we have to keep track of the cruel thing that happened. Therefore, the government will keep as much as possible of the 22nd of July centre as it says today, and as Stortinget has requested. The Government also proposes to increase the appropriation for the rehabilitation and maintenance of cultural heritage properties. Rehabilitation of the Rosenkrantz Tower will be a priority in 2020. Since 2013, the government has strengthened the Sametinget by over 100 million. kr. In 2020, the government will strengthen its efforts in the Sami languages. We have proposed an increase of 13 million in appropriations. kr to follow up the heart language. It is important that the people elected to the Sameting decide for themselves how to use the funds, and I would therefore like to stress that the Sameting is free to give priority to action within its own framework, in line with the intention of the new budgetary system introduced last year. In connection with the investment in teaching materials for trade renewal, the government has proposed to set aside 15 million. kr from the Ministry of Knowledge’s budget. The funds shall be used to translate, adapt and develop digital learning materials in Sami. Together with the allocation of the heart language, this will make an important contribution to strengthening the Sami language work in the future. In total, the government proposes a grant for Sami purposes of over 1.1 billion. kr. I would also like to stress that good common policies are not just about budgetary matters. The government is working on several major issues that are important for common policies and Sami rights, including: the lawfulness of the right of consultation. The government has also announced a new growth report on national minorities in 2020. This will be the first big message since 2000, and it is time to see how the government can help to strengthen the language, culture and situation of the national minorities in the future. The government has provided a government budget that has been well received at a time when there is a need to hold back a little. I think that makes sense, while we are presenting a budget that also in 2020 provides the municipalities with the necessary space for action in order to give priority to how they will use the funds themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e770	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e775	Successful regional and district policies require efforts in a wide range of areas, the Council of State writes in its draft budget to the Stortinget. I very much agree with that. One of the areas where the government has systematically built up is the possibility for the county municipalities, i.e. the new county municipalities, to have regional development funds — free resources that could be used to get jobs started and growth where it would not otherwise be. However, further in this interpretation of a wide range of areas, one might say: using ‘growth-promoting tax relief’. Then my question becomes to the Council of State: What are the growth-enhancing tax incentives, which the Council of State now refers to, or is planned to implement, that will strengthen regional policy efforts?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e782	This question I'm actually very happy to get. It is that some of the most important things we can do for the districts of Norway are to provide employment. It's to provide jobs, and it's to make it attractive to move to or stay in one place. What I see in the Labour Party's draft budget is a desire to experiment with the Norwegian economy. It's sending billions of new taxes to the population and to the business community. It's in the districts we have the natural resources, that's where we have the humans, and that's where we need to develop the jobs. And what do we see after six years of this government? Well, we have record low unemployment, we have a lot of employment, and we have a lot of value creation. It seems – to contribute to lower corporate taxes, to contribute to lower taxes on wealth. Yes, it initiates Norwegian ownership, and it contributes to jobs. After all, it must only be the Workers' Party which believes that more taxes give more jobs, giving better competitiveness to the rest of the world. That's not how it works. The numbers' speech is very clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e789	Then I guess I'll say a thousand thanks for the lesson in what the State budget of the Workers' Party is. That's a description I obviously don't particularly agree with. I notice that the answer again is a reference to a cut in the wealth tax, and that it should save district policy. So far we haven't seen the documentation on it, but it's still used repeatedly in the debate. Let me ask another question, and it's related to the Government Quartet. There's been some uncertainty about the Y block here. First, the government said that one would not review the demolition, but as I now read the matter in the media, it has nevertheless been said that one would like to consider some new things. But there is doubt about when to make the decision and when to start the demolition. I ask the Council of State to clarify how the process is going to proceed. I also ask the Council of State to answer: Do you want to start the demolition, or can she guarantee that you will not start the demolition until you have assessed the new elements you have said to assess?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e796	It is in my job to take responsibility, but to take responsibility for the media image that is created around the Y block, where I actually do not. So I'm very happy to clarify. It is such that there has been an application for a demolition permit from the Municipality of Oslo. It was processed, and it was sent to County. The County of Akershus has dealt with this matter and found that the decision taken by the Municipality of Oslo is valid. So there's a valid demolition permit. State buildings have therefore sent an authorisation to the Municipality of Oslo. It is treated in the municipality of Oslo and will be treated there. When the answer is available, an appeal may be brought to the County of Fylkeshan and the County of Fylkeshan will have to make that assessment. But we're going to follow the plan we have to tear down the Y block. Then it is the case that a request for conversion has been sent to the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation. There is, of course, no right to appeal under the Administrative Act, but there is something lawyers would like to do when all the complaints are exhausted. We're going to deal with it, and we're going to deal with it now.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e805	First, I will be allowed to commend the Council of State for the rescue of the veterinary guard. It was incredibly important. Although both the Centre Party and the KS very much agree that as much as possible should be within the framework, there are some areas where we know that services will be weakened if it is not funded in another way. The same is true of volunteer centres, and there is perhaps even more critical, because it is not a statutory task – and very demanding – to prioritise in a very tight budget. We have received feedback from a huge number of municipalities that they are now afraid that this is going to happen in 2021. KS has also provided the same feedback. They are very concerned that volunteer centres will be closed down in many municipalities, when there will be only NOK 20 000-30 000 left to finance each of them in the municipalities that have fewer inhabitants. Will the Council consider taking a second look at volunteer centres?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e812	I thank you for the rose, but I think I'll be so honest and admit that I'm probably not the one responsible for this getting a different end to what we suggested by the government. Having said that, I would say that veterinary supplements and volunteer centres are two completely different things. Veterinary needs are very different in this country. That's not the need for volunteering. And I think the way we've been distributing this grant right now is not fair. That's how some municipalities get, and others don't get. Those who have organised their volunteer work in volunteer centres receive grants. Those who have organized it in a different way, don't. I hear very often many people say that you are really to distribute as much as possible in the framework. But you're not, because when we come to the question of integrating, there's always strong moves to prevent that from happening. I believe it is fair for municipalities to be allocated the money and to give priority to how voluntary work should be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e821	The Council of State refers to the differences between the veterinary subsidy and voluntary grants. There's nothing wrong with having today's distribution, but at the same time making sure that those who don't get it also gets. These are the principles of dividing by population, which are challenging. Following a previous debate, to which reference was made here, the National Board of Governors of the CS has said that they are ‘very critical, however, to allocate the grant to the volunteer centres by population’. We wish – if it is the wording – that it should be called not to the centres but to voluntary work. But it's about the principle that very many municipalities will get so little that you can't organise volunteer work, and we know that the local economy is tight. Still, after New Year's Eve, it's like 75 pst. which has less than 10 000 inhabitants. In the case of voluntary grants, would the Council of State, together with the Government, be able to assess this?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e828	First I have to say that volunteer work is very, very important, and there is fantastic volunteer work, both organized as volunteer centres, and also in other ways in this country, fortunately. That is why, over the last few years, we have also significantly increased the focus on volunteer centres. That's very good. So the question is, if you have a pot of money and you want to distribute it to what becomes 356 municipalities from 1 January 2020, how do you do that? You can distribute it to those who have volunteer centres today, but it's going to be very unfair for those who haven't organized it the way we have premiered through the earmarked scheme. Then the most neutral thing is to distribute it out based on the number of inhabitants. I don't know about any other key that distributes this fairly. It is part of the problem if you are to include it in the framework, and I think you should. I believe that our municipal politicians are well able to assess how they will organise this in the best possible way in their municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e835	President, I've asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e840	Sorry, it was not registered here. The next and last replicator is Heidi Greni.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e846	Yes, I asked for a follow-up to my reply instead, so we'll continue to do it with volunteer centres, because I think it's a clear parallel to this with the veterinary preparedness. Both need basic funding. You have to have one job and you need basic funding. And the challenge is exactly the same: we trust the local politicians very much, but if you don't have money to distribute, you have to give priority to the statutory tasks, and the volunteer agencies are not a legal task. The central party believes that these are becoming increasingly important in the community, not least in terms of integration tasks. We see that around the small municipalities that have settled refugees, the volunteer centre has a very central role in the integration tasks, and we fear that it will put integration back if we don't manage to maintain them. So I fervently ask that the Council of State see the challenge that is there. We trust the local politicians, but they need money to give priority, and this is not a statutory task and therefore needs special attention.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e853	When I say it's not completely comparable, it's because the veterinary organization is special, and there are also different needs in different parts of the country. But voluntary work is needed everywhere, and it is happening everywhere – fortunately. It is that there are different priorities for this in Kommune-Norge, but it is not that it is not priority because it is not required by law. Some have organized it as a volunteer center, others have chosen a different organization, and what becomes a little unfair is that those who have organized it the way the state wants them to, they get a subsidy, so others don't. So yes, we can discuss this, but there's very few ways to do this that are going to be more fair than basing it on population. Both large cities and districts need voluntary work. It's very important. And it's our municipal politicians who sit almost on it and see how it's to be organized in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e860	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e865	The government's aim is for Norway to be a sustainable welfare society — economically, socially and environmentally. Digitalisation and new technologies will be key instruments to achieve this. The combination of the Internet of Things, artificial intelligence and the next generation of mobile networks will provide completely new opportunities for solving these problems in new and better ways, facilitating new jobs and making life easier for most people. Norway is one of the most digitised societies in the world. Nevertheless, we still have a great potential to exploit digitisation even better in the years to come. In the course of a human life or an enterprise’s life, a number of levels of government and public enterprises – the city, the municipality, the county and the state. For each public service you use, you often have to fill in the same boxes with the same information, and many feel that it is not so easy to navigate in an unknown waters of forms and regulations. Many people have the surplus and the competence to find out from the public services, but we can all imagine that the situation is different when you have a seriously ill child, or when you are new in Norway and most of it feels insurmountable. In June, the government launched a new strategy for the digitisation of the public sector. The strategy was developed together with the KS and contains great ambitions for making public service provision better and more effective by means of seamless digital services across administration levels. Most people don't care what level of administration a service offers. They care about getting what they need, when they have a right to it, and that the service is of high quality. In the state budget for 2020, the government proposes an offensive commitment to digitisation. The proposal amounts to 707 million. kr for new digitisation measures. This comes at the top of already big stakes and puts us in even better position to realize the great ambitions of the digitalisation strategy. The co-financing mechanism for digitisation projects has been a key instrument for public sector digitisation since its inception in 2016. Since 2016, a total of 461.6 million has been committed. SEK to 53 projects. The potential savings are about 9.2 billion. DKK over 10 years. In the government budget for next year, the government proposes to increase the co-financing framework by 60 million. NOK 187.9 million. kr. At the same time, we propose to change the scheme so that it can finance cross-cutting digitisation measures. It will enable even more socio-economically profitable projects to be carried out which contribute to more coherent services for users. In 2019, the Government decided to amend the division of responsibilities and tasks between Diffi, Brønnøysund and DFØ. The amendment involves, inter alia: to create a Digitalisation Directorate in which Altin and the restructured Diffi will be included. The Digitalisation Directorate will be a pool of competences and resources and a very good starting point for the development of national common components and solutions. The Directorate will be operational from 1 January 2020. Increasing the sharing and reuse of data is one of the key prerequisites for the development of more coherent and user-oriented services. So the government is proposing 10 million. to strengthen the work of the Digitalisation Directorate on data sharing, including the establishment of a national resource centre for the sharing of data to be competent in both technology, law, business and management processes. Both industry and the public sector will enjoy this resource centre. Both the private and public sectors use cloud services to store and process data. Cloud services can provide more cost-effective, better and safer use of digital solutions in the public sector. The Government proposes to establish a market place for cloud services that will help the public sector to make good choices within a sound and secure framework when choosing cloud services for its operations. Good digital services are of little help if the population cannot use them. The government has great ambitions for broadband coverage in Norway, and we are on track to achieve the ambitious high-speed broadband target set in the Digital Agenda three years ago. The Government contributes to the development of areas where there is no commercial profitability and has, in the autumn, sent a proposal for universal service obligations on basic broadband services to be consulted. There is no doubt that if we compare ourselves to other countries, we have very good mobile and broadband connections in Norway, but that does not mean that the government is satisfied. We must continue and ensure that everyone can connect to the digital services that we are to provide.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e890	It opens for line chord shift.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e895	I am pleased that the right-wing government shares the Workers' Party's view that the market cannot solve the challenge with broadband for everyone across the country – or as I prefer to express it: one at any time modern network access. There is no doubt that technological progress is fast. What was good enough yesterday will definitely not be good enough tomorrow, and it is doubtful whether it is good enough today. That is why there is a question as to whether the target set in the Digital Agenda, now three years old, is good enough. I heard the council say you were on a good path to reach it. The Labour Party believes that the deployment of a modern network access does not go fast enough, that it does not use enough resources. In line with our alternative national transport plan, we have therefore committed 500 million. kr to it for the next year – more than twice as much as the government. Why does the government not prioritise more money for this?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e902	It is true that we have had a fantastic development in broadband coverage since 2013. In 2013 it was only 11 pst. in spread-built strips with access to fibre. Today we know that 86 pst. of all Norwegian households offer 100 Mbit/s broadband coverage or more. It's been a formidable development, but that doesn't mean we're satisfied. Let's remember that when the Digital Agenda was launched, everyone thought that 90 pst. by the end of 2020 was too ambitious. Now we're in the process of reaching that goal, but we're not satisfied. That is why I have announced that we are going to make a new big message about the ecosystem policy, where we will also look at the broadband targets in the future. I think it is good that the representative Sivertsen is concerned that people should have access to good digital services, because the cut proposed by the Workers' Party in consulting services of 23 p.m. in state enterprises, will represent a setback for the digitisation and development of the services that people will access through the Internet they have at home.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e911	Now the council is very approximate in its review. The working party does not cut 23 pst. in state activities. On the contrary, the Labour Party has said that we want to carefully reduce the use of consultants, because we believe it is also important to build skills internally. The councils were in their posts inside the Brønn Island Health Registers, and this has been a long and painful story. There has been a reluctance from the government to grant sufficient funds over the years. These are now in place. The government's draft budget showed that it was not sufficient for the challenges to be met. Fortunately, it was fixed when the budget was aged. But there is still a concern in Brønnøysund in the Nordic countries that the government actually has a plan to move Altinn away from the Brønn Island Health Registers and into the new Directorate, among others. because you do not have local management. Can the Council of State guarantee that there is no plan for a reduction of Altinn?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e920	Altin is a central common component of the Norwegian digital ecosystem. I have not contributed to creating the impression that Altinn's presence in Brønnøysund is threatened. On the contrary, I have assured you repeatedly, even during a visit to Brønnøysund, that Altinn will of course continue to be in Brønnøysund. There's no need to worry about it. To what the representative spoke about initially, a small, careful cut in consulting: it is almost impossible to know where the Workers' Party will cut in the consulting, because they have taken the cut in the miscellaneous post, which in itself is a relatively unprofessional budgeting. So if you take what they're writing in the text, that's the state, it's going to be 1.8 billion cuts. kr will constitute a cut in the 23 pst consultancy. There are mainly ICT projects that will go beyond this, and then the question is: are there projects in tax, in Nav or in the police Workers' Party that want to cut? Or what is it that the Workers' Party really wants to reduce in terms of ICT projects?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e927	Norway is a country that has come a long way in digitisation. We are also a country that has good control and overview of what is going on, because we have good records. These registers consist of data collected from individuals and enterprises, often based on law. So it hasn't been voluntary to give up this data. In a world that is increasingly digitised and consists of service creation based on intangible values — in this case information/data in systematic registers — these data provide a basis for value creation. Norway has a comparative competitive advantage, it can be said, with the potential for too much value creation across the country. I am absolutely sure that the Council of State shares my view. But what's an interesting question here is who owns this data. Who will be allowed to participate in the value creation? After all, the starting point of the working party will be that the community that has provided these data must also have its share of the value creation that takes place on the basis of it. How has the Council of State intended to ensure that it does so?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e934	In terms of personal data, at least I have a slightly different approach to this than the Workers' Party has. I believe that personal data is something we own each, and not something that the community owns on our behalf. But I fully agree that there are enormous values in data. How we choose to use, process and manage this data in the future, and how ownership is to be managed in the future, is going to be crucial for what kind of values we can create on the basis of those data, and what kind of services we can offer to the population on the basis of those data. That's why I've just launched that we're going to create a new big message about the computer economy and innovation to get a broad, good discussion about an area that's going to be completely central in the future. It's estimated that the value of data will double in just a few years. I think it's a conservative proposition. There are great opportunities for Norwegian industry, Norwegian industry and the public sector to provide better services. We have to take advantage of that in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e942	I guess the Council of State shares my assumption that if you want to make use of this efficiency, you depend on everyone having access to sufficient data capacity. Unfortunately, it's not like that around the country. Tonight I'm going to meet Siri Fossum from Middle Gauldal. There is a great concern that only 42 pst. of the municipality's inhabitants have cover with acceptable capacity. It hampers economic development and reduces the ability of citizens to use digital municipal services. It's a hindrance to all developments in the municipality. Now we know that in 2023 the copper network is being taken down, and that's going to be an even bigger challenge because many people lose the landline and the line they have there. It's only 256 million. kr – if I remember correctly – to be distributed in 2020. This is actually a drop in the ocean in relation to the need that is out there. Sees the Council of State that it's a prerequisite for us to take out the efficiency gain, that we're approaching 100 pst. ?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e949	Here it's important to have two thoughts in your head at once. We need to develop services that people have enjoyed, and there I see that the Center Party cuts in the Digitalisation Directorate's budget by $7 million. kr, and it will put us back, as well as a large cut – also there – in consulting services, which will also put us back. And then we have to make sure that people have access to the services that we actually offer. That's exactly where we agree. It's been a fantastic development in recent years, but we're not on target. Now I don't know what the representative Greni is putting in acceptable broadband coverage, whether it's 100 Mbit/s, but we have the goal that all residents in Norway will get 100 Mbit/s coverage or more. I think the 5G expansion is going to make a significant contribution to it, and it will be possible eventually to get fixed home width bands with high speed as a replacement product for copper. And then I'm glad Telenor has assured us that they're not going to stop repairing bugs in the copper network, or picking down the copper network, until there's a satisfactory and good alternative in place for the inhabitants affected by it. We'll follow that closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e956	Digitalisation is necessary and good, but everyone must have access to broadband, and people must be able to use it. I get a lot of enquiries from people who experience that the public sector is becoming remote and difficult with digitisation. I sometimes say it like this: when one e.g. goes to Nav on the blackest day of his life, one shall take the test of acquaintance in bureaucracy. If you print a bug, it is "game over". The meeting between the inhabitants and the administration cannot be this way, whether it is a government or a municipal government. What the state has to do, is to coordinate itself, to create structures to do this, so that the inhabitants can be completely safe in view of the personal information they provide, but also that one should have the right to meet a human being if one needs it. Is that part of the Council of State's strategy?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e961	I am very happy that SV is concerned with digitisation and mentions it as necessary and good, because it is not mentioned in the main comment from SV at all. It's good to make it more precise here. Then I agree that the state must coordinate itself, but it doesn't hold that only the state coordinates itself, because I don't think people care if they get a service from the state or from the municipality. In fact, we need to look at coordination across administrative levels and ensure that this is a seamless and good experience for the citizens. When we know that 96 pst. by Norwegian residents using digital banking services, it is because they are easy to use. We need to ensure that public services are just as simple, that the threshold is low, and that the user experience is good for those who are going to make use of it, whether they refer to themselves as digitally competent or not. So, of course, there always has to be an alternative for those who don't want to use digital services, but our goal is that digital services should be so good that it becomes the first choice for most people.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e968	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e973	It is in the municipalities that most people use welfare services — we know that, and we see that — school, care for the elderly and the provision of resource-intensive users, such as drug users. multi-disabled children. That is why this debate on the municipal budget – which can be called the greyest word in Norwegian political vocabulary, but which covers some of the hottest things – is important and really determines what welfare offers we want to give to the people of Norway. This debate is a debate on how to deal with those who need the welfare state most, in a fair and quality manner. For the Labour Party, it is central that people in Norway should have a good welfare offer where they live. Unfortunately, this becomes more difficult and difficult for the municipalities of the country. We see it clearly now. KS says it has become clearly more demanding for the municipalities to make the budgets go up. More than half of the municipalities with less than 10000 inhabitants now budget with a negative net operating surplus. This shows that the economic situation in municipalities is under pressure, and this will lead to a cut in the provision of services to the inhabitants of Norway. That's pretty clear. So let's say that and take the consequences of that. It's serious. The government is now imposing a triple negative burden on our municipalities: firstly, very low income growth, which means that many municipalities have to cut off the service offer; secondly, – and at the same time – the government restricts the ability of municipalities to raise their own incomes for bets and to solve tasks through property tax; and thirdly, and it is serious, the government cuts the transfers into schemes, so that municipalities have to take a greater share of the bill, or provide municipalities with orders and tasks that are not fully financed. An example of the last point from this year's government budget: the government sent an extra bill to the municipalities because they cut 350 million. kr in the resource-requiring services schemes. In total, local government own-funding in this scheme has increased by 1 billion. kr in the last few years. This simply means that municipalities have to cut the quality of the services received by those who need the most welfare state. The Labour Party can't watch that. We have a government that does not equip the municipalities for the future that lies ahead of us. It does not enable municipalities to develop a good care and care provision for municipalities in the country, especially pending the ageing of the population. The government's proposal for a local economy is the worst and toughest that any government has ever presented in the last 15 years. The government sends the extra bill to municipalities for financing services to those who need the most welfare state. A little over 50 pst. by the municipalities in the KS survey, the standard of living in the nursery means increased expenditure, which is not financed. So it's the kids who take the consequences. Almost 70 pst. by the municipalities in the survey say that the school teachers’ norm involves increased expenditure, which is also not funded. The representative, Andersen, went through the financial debate through a wide range of figures for municipalities, what they have to cut – speaking examples. Let me just take some. In Arendal, it's added up to a cut of over 100 million. In Kinn, 80 million must be cut. SEK, in Tana 21 million. SEK, in Berlevåg 8 million. kr. Here we have municipalities of different sizes. They all have to cut. I could keep going, the list is long. It is irresponsible and unaccountable of a government to adopt unfunded reforms. The community food supply feeds the municipalities. The Labour Party wants something else with our municipalities. As I said, this is the place where we can ensure the well-being of everyone who lives. We want our elders and caregivers to be given priority. We want to ensure good teachers for our children. All this costs money, and it costs money in the municipalities. It is in this grey word ‘municipal economy’ that we must put in the effort. We're increasing the free income of the municipalities by 2.5 billion. kr in our alternative budget. Then the municipalities – none of them do extravagant planning, they know what resource shortage means – can build more hospitals, hire more people in school and in our kindergartens. Especially when we look at the demography, it's not the very first years that we get more elderly people who probably need more care services. It's a little bit out of 2020. But it's not a bet – in terms of who's going to work in that sector, what buildings they're going to work in, how it's rusted up, how the home care is rusted up – you can take that day, the year the increase takes place. It must be prepared, and it must be planned. It will also suffer from this municipal budget. For this debate is a welfare debate, and unfortunately, this state budget will mean cutting the welfare of most people, especially in smaller municipalities, and weakening the ability to plan for a good and safe welfare offer that the whole country benefits from, beyond the 2020s. We want to build the welfare of our municipalities, not build it down.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e994	The fact that most people own their own housing is part of creating good and safe communities. Eight out of ten live in a dwelling owned by the household. It helps to spread economic power, it gives us a good living environment, and it gives good predictability to the individual. For the right, it's important to take care of the tradition that most people own their own homes. Luckily, most people manage to find a dwelling without interference from the state. With the right in government, the building speed has also risen and the construction costs have fallen. The threshold for entering the housing market is falling. Nevertheless, many people still struggle to buy their own home. Therefore, it is good that the government continues to work to make it faster, easier and cheaper to build dwellings. But even though it may be the price development of homes that people can buy themselves, which create the biggest headlines, it's not for those we need the most policy. We have the most important housing policy for those who, for some reason, are unable to get a good place to live on their own. In this state budget, housing social work is once again lifted. It's e.g. a problem that there are municipalities where there are people in house queues while municipal dwellings are empty. It is also a problem that in many municipalities, an applicant for a municipal dwelling has to deal with a heavy-duty form that needs to be delivered in paper, which also increases the risk of errors and delays. For this reason, a dedicated digitisation project is being launched to improve the understanding of the owner-occupancy of municipalities and to facilitate the application process for users. The municipal sector, the House Bank and others are involved in the project, which can also get results as early as next year. Housing is also an important tool to help those with high housing costs and low incomes, and it will also be strengthened next year. The housing support is strengthened and targeted, so that those who receive housing support get more, and the proportion of the building charges covered by the housing support is higher now than when the red-green government went off. For the next year, there will also be a strengthening of housing for families with children of over 220 million. kr. It's a high sum, but it also means that there are 22,000 households that can get more in housing support, and a child's family can also get over $13,000 more per year. In addition, we have to make it easier to go from renting to owning a home. The starting loan scheme of the Husbank must also be given priority. Last year, a record 9 billion was distributed. kr in initial loans, and only in the last three years more than 12000 households have gone from renting to owning dwellings through initial loans. It has been possible just because the Right has chosen to give priority to those who need it the most, and we will also continue to do so in the coming years. Although you might not believe it after the opposition posts, it is quite good in the municipality of Norway and in Norway in general. It is quite right that Norway is doing well, it is doing well in the economy, and when the economy is doing well, the public also has to hold back the use of money. The community structure provides good conditions for providing good services to people. But in addition, municipalities also need to look at new solutions to find room for action for new, smart ways to work, so that you get more out of each krona without going at the expense of the service. Then there is also a great opportunity to use new technology, which means that you get better services more efficiently and at a cheaper price, without going at the expense of warm hands. A good example that facilitates precisely this is the co-financing mechanism for digitisation projects. Since the scheme was set up in 2016, 53 projects have been supported, which will provide savings of approximately 9 billion over a ten-year period. kr. This space for action can rather be released for other tasks, such as: in health and school and other important tasks in Kommune-Norway. There is also a need for more carrots to realise profitable digitisation projects, which is why it is also positive that the commitment framework for it will be increased next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1017	The municipality is a great place. The municipalities with their inhabitants and their businesses, public services and voluntary efforts are glued to our society. The municipalities with their elected representatives, their administration and their employees, where 24 hours a day are worked to provide the people with the services they need in kindergarten, school, care for the elderly, etc., etc., are a great place to be. I guess it's worth taking care of. One way to do this is to give municipalities real opportunities to provide quality services, give municipalities the opportunity to prioritize, give local and regional elected authorities the opportunity to actually develop their municipality. Economics and efficient driving are prerequisites for proper maintenance of quality. When you still have to sit and cut services, you lose the ability to get efficiency and quality in services. Therefore, the Labour Party in this budget also prioritises a better local economy than the government proposes. We see that we need to prioritise primary and secondary education, we need to raise the elderly, we need to raise the health care, we need to raise the kindergartens, and we need to raise the development of nutrition. The development of nutrition throughout the country is also a prerequisite for spreading housing, which is a prerequisite for preventing centralisation, and contributes to good and safe communities. We expect a lot from the municipalities, and that's good – it likes the municipalities. Municipalities would like to be required, but the municipalities must also expect to have the opportunity to respond to the requirements set. The government's proposal for a municipal economy that we are dealing with here today does not respond to this. On the contrary, the government’s proposal weakens the vast majority of municipalities – the kutter of the top funding scheme, the cuts in social benefits, which lead to an increase in municipal social assistance payments, and does not provide real compensation for wage and price increases. Then I hear the council talking nice about the Sameting. The government is weakening the whole thing. We've been to the Sameting. There was not the Council of State, but there were others, we who are on the committee. In the hearing, the representatives of the assembly came up with crushing criticism of the government's economic structure, which they consider to be a purely budget for the Sameting. The whole thing says that this is the worst financial arrangement of this government throughout the lifetime of this government. That was the hearing. It may seem that the government's quest to cut municipal budgets to finance other things, such as tax cuts to them with the most of the time, has made the government parties economically speed-blind. It is called from many municipalities and county councils: the government’s financial priorities do not hold. As has been said before, this is the worst financial offer from the government to the municipalities of 15 years. We've been to Easter Island. Among other things, there is a question of: What does our local democracy do when the task of the local government is to cut off services to people year after year? This is signed by Right, Left, Advance Party and Christian People's Party representatives in Osterøy Municipal Government. You have to start wondering if the government and government party representatives here in Oslo are living in a way in an alternative reality to those who sit on the local government out there, when the differences are so big. Because here, it's unhindered by how wonderfully well you've delivered in the local economy for all of the years, and then the feedback is the exact opposite as soon as we stick our noses on the outside of this hall. So you have to wonder what kind of alternative reality the government and government representatives here in this room are trying to tell us about. Kristiansand, who was up in a line change, shows that here you take from them jobs, here you take from them skills, and then they figure out what it costs, and then they take that money, while Kristiansand Municipality says no, we run cheaper, but they don't get to keep the benefit. The state just takes it from them. Siv Jensen and Monica Meland, the state councils, take away the money. Several municipalities report real discount schemes. My own municipality, Marker, is one of them. – Real minus arrangements. The Labour Party has different priorities than the Government. Three billion. NOK more until the municipalities had made a difference.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1046	Norway's most important asset is not oil, it's people who go to work every day. The government will have living communities all over the country and will conduct a policy that provides the basis for people to live in all of Norway and that they have a job to do. That is why it means something when the government in the 2020 budget proposes to grant 1.3 billion. to schemes to contribute to industrial growth in regions and districts. As part of the regional reform, the grant liability for five commercial schemes under the auspices of Innovation Norway and Siva is transferred to the county councils, which total 763 million. to targeted efforts to develop business in the counties. That's good, because even though a lot goes well in our country a day – we have low unemployment and strong economic growth – we need to use the space of action that is, to transform both business and the public sector. If we are to safeguard our welfare society in the future as well, we must focus on feeding. The most important thing for Norway in the future is that more jobs are created in the private sector, and we are on the right track. The availability is the lowest of more than ten years. The registered unemployment rate in August 2019 was 2.2 pst. Growth is increasing, the Norwegian economy is growing faster than usual, and more jobs are created. But we have to use the good times to include more people in the workplace, and so it's a pleasure that we now see that the proportion of people in the job is also rising. I am pleased with the government's commitment to an inclusive working life. The requirement to have at least 5 pst. of all new employees in state establishments must be persons with disabilities or holes in the CV, will provide opportunities for even more participation and inclusion in the labour market. It's interesting to note that the lowest unemployment rate is actually found in the traditional districts, like Sogn and Fjordane with 1.5 pst., Troms with 1.7 pst. and Oppland and Nordland with 1.8 pst. And while somebody likes to talk the districts down, we're in the right to strengthen the infrastructure that builds up built-up and town. There is no doubt that when the appropriations for transport have increased by 80 pst. during the post-2013 civil government period, it helps to reduce distances, to bind communities and to facilitate new opportunities for both housing and business. It is important for the local government's economy and tax revenue in the future. Recently, the government’s district communication was presented, a message that points to two serious trends: There will be more older and fewer employees per pensioner up to 2040. Competence competition will be even stronger in the future. In the Right, we are pleased that the government underlines the importance that we will continue to facilitate living communities throughout the country and pursue policies that contribute to ensuring an equivalent service provision. This year we have the highest investment rate in the mainland industry in ten years. Company taxes and property taxes have been reduced. This means that Norwegian businesses throughout the country can strengthen their competitiveness and invest more in the development of jobs and companies. However, in meeting future challenges, given the shortage of skills and labour, no one can sleep an hour. Storing and government cannot decide where people will live and work. But where the municipalities say yes to new local jobs, this government has produced the yes-stamp. That's a good start. Anyone who believes that the status quo, the fear of reform and the policy of reversal are the solution to the challenges facing the future must believe again. It won't be easier for businesses in the districts to find people with the right skills about a reverser the municipal or regional reform. There won't be any more young people for that reason either. We need to enable municipalities to drive social development, not just social activity. Strong municipalities are needed for this, and it contributes to this year's government budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1076	Housing, together with work, education and health, is one of the four pillars of welfare. Norwegian housing policy has been successful. A place to live at an affordable price is crucial to being able to live a life of independence and good living. The working party believes that as many as possible should own their own home. It is a public responsibility to facilitate the possibility of good quality housing for all. It is therefore an important task to facilitate the construction of adequate housing. The dwelling should be a place to live, not a speculation object. The difference between owning and renting owner-occupied dwellings is becoming one of the inequalities of society. With today's housing prices in Oslo, first-time buyers struggle to get into the housing market and buy their own home. Those who can afford to buy a dwelling sooner than before. BSU is a good arrangement for those who have good finances and money left over, but does not work to meet the housing needs of all young people. Local authorities have several tools to facilitate the construction of good quality housing for all. The schemes in the House Bank must be used more actively, and it is the State that is to facilitate this. The government can do more to support municipalities in managing the housing market and strengthening local and urban development. The government then has to develop the toolbox and actively contribute to a planning and building law that opens up to municipalities the right to regulate the form of accommodation in the housing projects. It will be to open up new roads to the housing market, for example: by being able to go from rent to ownership with the help of the municipality in which you live. Both the state and the municipalities are responsible for the construction of enough housing and for the construction of varied housing of good quality. Municipalities should ensure land cover. It is easier to control development if it is built on municipal plots. The regionalisation of the various metropolitan cities in Norway will contribute to raising the local environment and reducing exclusion, which includes child poverty and unemployment. Good cooperation between the State and the municipality, where efforts to increase employment, good youth education and community action are strengthened, leads to smaller differences and fewer vulnerable neighbourhoods where poor living conditions are inherited. That is why we are expanding and strengthening the area effort by 50 million. kr in our alternative budget. It is desirable that the elderly should be able to live as far as possible in owner-occupied dwellings. Unfortunately, not all dwellings are particularly suitable for the elderly on the day health fails. For various reasons, some cannot address their own housing situation. It is then important that the right measures are in place. The goal of more people living at home is not sufficiently pursued in the government’s proposals for the State budget for 2020. A simple grip is to build a lift in small blocks, so that several older people can live longer at home in the owner-occupied dwelling. We're strengthening the lift subsidy in our alternative budget by 40 million. kr. We do not support the government's reduction of the House Bank. In our alternative budget, we have a strong increase in the Husbank's lending framework, so that more environmentally friendly and accessible housing can be built, and that more people can obtain start-up loans. We're increasing the lending framework by 9 billion. kr. Housing is essential for people with low incomes to obtain or maintain a home. The problem is both increased housing prices in cities and there are many thousands fewer qualified to receive housing support compared to the past. In the Workers' Party's alternative budget, therefore, housing aid is increased by 100 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1096	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1101	Timely decisions at the right time are what in many ways sums up what this hall has done historically. Therefore, while Norway has some challenges, we are among the best countries in the world to live in. But we also know that we're at a crossroads. The economic space for action is shrinking. Increases in the age pension have already occurred. In the future, there will be enormous pressure on the local government sector as there will be an even greater need for comprehensive welfare services. Norway is not prepared. The welfare offer in the municipalities is weakened by this government. What we know is that we have a government that uses the huge space of action they have to give big tax cuts to the economic elite here in the country. Riches are rewarded as workers are pressed. Then we know that it has to be cut in the municipalities, that the welfare offer has to be built down. The reality is that this is the worst state budget for the municipalities since Erna Solberg was the municipal minister. We see that while the Workers' Party will strengthen the municipalities, the big project for the government is even more New Public Management, less trust in the employees and even more reporting and control rather than economic space, so that the citizens get the services they require, and the employees are taken care of. The second major project of this government is even more privatisation. You want to look at Sweden. This means less provision for citizens, lower pay and working conditions for employees and even more bureaucracy in the future. It worries me. If we are to ensure that even more young people choose to invest in the care professions in the future, municipalities must have financial space to do something about what we know is a crisis in Kommune-Norway today, namely that two out of three in the care sector work part-time when they want full-time jobs. It surprises me, as I said, not that the Right People believe this is a created crisis of the Workers' Party. No – this is probably an example of the reward of wealth and the pressure on ordinary workers. We have to provide more full-time jobs in Kommune-Norway. It is about politicians locally who make this conscious as employers, but also about an economic space that gives the municipalities the muscles they need. Then we have a huge centralization. The districts are being challenged, but we also see that the big cities are being pressured by the fact that there are greater differences within the big cities as to which parts of the city and where the inhabitants live.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1112	If we are to succeed in exploiting the opportunities of digitisation, we must use all the resources. We need to open up the public sector better in order to involve the private actors, where diversity is great, and the Labour Party budget with large consultants is very bad news in this context. In the years leading up to 1994, I was so lucky to be working with Lillehammer-OL. It was the big exhibition window, also technologically. We sold over one million tickets – no one over the Internet. There was no website that told anything about the possibilities that lay there, and the e-mail was only for internal use. It's not more than 25 years ago. It tells us that we are at the beginning of the digital age, and we are still far from ignoring what consequences and possibilities this technology represents. What we can see is that the world has become smaller, that technology has a huge social change force, that it is in strong development, and that it represents fantastic opportunities, but also that it challenges us, for example, in terms of privacy, monopoly or the management of huge multinational groups. Digitalisation is a great opportunity, and it is incredibly exciting to listen to the Minister for Digitalisation when he presents the opportunities we have for the public sector. We have to seize those opportunities, but at the same time we have to master the challenges. We have to be open to change, and we have to make sure that we are close to development and that everyone is in it. We must help Norway to be at the forefront, not only in the use of technology, but also in its control. In this area, cooperation between the public and private sectors is very important. Technological developments do not take place in enclosed spaces or, as some may dream of, in closed public systems. Developments take place where technological environments meet, compete and grow on each other's progress. If we are to be in the dark, it must use publicly all the resources and brain power that exist in the private sector – from the smart 20-year-old who develops an app for monitoring the monitoring tasks of the Nature Monitoring Agency in the field, to the large companies that can contribute to the success of the development of complex systems of municipal services. And as I said, when we listen to the line change that, among other things, The representative Sivertsen is talking about building on the competence of the state, and when we look at the budget of the Workers' Party, this can lead us wrong. We must have a breadth and a diversity in whom we are getting involved in the development of our common well-being in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1125	When I listened to the State Council of Malta earlier today, there was no way in which wealth would now be around Norwegian municipalities. It is quite far from the reality experienced by the elderly and sick and their relatives in everyday life. And the daily lives of the Norwegian elderly have become more difficult since the country got an elder minister, and I have noticed that Minister of Older People Listhaug is not even present in the debate here today when we discuss the framework for the finances of the municipalities. Two days ago, along with 400 others, I went in a torch at my home, Southumsand, to fight to take care of Southum's nursing home and the medic, which is threatened by closure. A similar torch in Oslo would have had 40,000 people. These are people who fight to take care of the good, close services for the elderly, for the sick and for their relatives. Earlier this year, I experienced a close - family death. It was the medical team on Sørumsand that was the first on the spot. The fight against centralisation and for good services near people affects people in their everyday lives. Fortunately, a new red-green political majority in Lillestrøm has a municipality that listens to people and now prevents the lay-off of the bodyguard and the nursing home on Sørumsand – against the proposal of the councillor, against the proposals on the right-hand side of the municipality. But if we are to be able to develop and strengthen services in the future, we need to strengthen the local economy. For Lillestrøm municipality alone – the coercive municipalities of Sørum, Fet and Skedsmo, who were to experience all the wealth where they coexist – have not experienced any wealth. On the contrary, they experience cuts for years, and in this year's budget, the new cut comes. Only on resource-requiring services alone, it is 25 million. kr i kort for Lillestrøm kommune. Not because the needs are reduced, but because the government is pushing the bill over to the municipalities. This is why there is a need to move in the opposite direction: we need to strengthen the local economy, so that we can provide good services close to the people of all Norway. When KS describes that there has been a more difficult situation for municipalities, when more than half of the country's municipalities with less than 10,000 inhabitants say they have to cut the budget, that they do not have the budget in balance, yes, then there is a need to take action and ensure the well-being of the whole of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1134	The municipalities are crucial in the environmental struggle. There's a lot of emissions here that have to be cut, and that's where nature has to be preserved. But then we also have to make sure that the municipalities have both the economy and the necessary skills to do the job. Since the Stortinget several years ago decided that we should bet on zero-emission and low-emission boat traffic in public transport, after we decided in Stortinget that buses should be driven by zero-emission technology, several county municipalities have now put in place an important effort to comply with the important decision of the Stortinget. The problem is that many of these municipalities have experienced expenditure increases as a result. Therefore, the SV will increase the appropriations for public transport and grant the county councils increased subsidies when they move to electrically driven or other zero-emission solutions in public transport. We're putting hundreds of millions to this precisely to ensure that the municipalities and county councils are able to carry out the mission we've given them in the climate struggle. If we do not support this important work, we fear that we will miss out on very important emissions cuts in the years to come. We also need to increase environmental competence in municipalities. The government has assigned several tasks to municipalities. Then we have to make sure that it follows appropriations with it. So SV is going to add 100 million. kr to increase environmental competence in municipalities, so that each municipality can have its own environmental manager. Then we have come into a phase of climate work where we have to realize that some consequences of the climate crisis must we live with. Then it is absolutely essential that we be able to adapt as best we can. That is why we are also increasing the appropriations for climate adaptation measures in municipalities from SV. We're dependent on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1145	The government parties repeat and repeat two messages as a standard response to all complaints from Kommune-Norway, also in the setting we are dealing with here, and in the debate today. First, they say, the government has increased transfers to the municipalities. Secondly, fewer municipalities than ever are listed in the ROBEK register – i.e. the list of municipalities that are, to put it simply, placed under state administration. Both parts are true, and yet both parts are so misleading that it's to laugh at. The municipalities are ending their budgetary processes in these days, just as we are doing here, and in very many municipalities the struggle stands for what unsocial cuts we have to swallow, and what cuts we can avoid. Of course, what is easiest is all that is not required by law, such as prevention, support for volunteering, culture, apprenticeships, staffing beyond minimum requirements – all that we want to maintain and further develop. My policy background is from Eidsvoll, a municipality with as staunch a history as it is now a stupendous municipality economy. We've been on the ROBEK list, we've come out, we've been cut and cut year after year, because we don't want to go back in – just like none of us that individuals want to be disqualified. It is bitter to be deprived of maritime governance for municipalities, just like for people, so those who can, kiss and stay outside. The result is that Eidsvoll scores at the top of one area in the Kommunebarometer: efficiency. We're running about the cheapest in the country. We've become so slim. Ribbeina's playing. From the government, such municipalities are told that we just have to make even more efficient. It's very provocative. Yes, the transfers to the municipalities are increasing, that's true. But the transfer of responsibilities and new tasks brings costs that increase even more, as has been said several times today. The gap increases, the dyna gets shorter, and it doesn't help for government parties to say anything else when their legs stick out. Increased responsibility is often about good intentions, about reforms and quality measures that municipalities also want, for kindergartens, schools and all kinds of municipal care services. But when the funds don't follow, and they don't, not enough, it becomes more and more impossible to follow up as the municipalities should and would. Therefore, SV proposes to increase overall transfers to municipalities more than any other party in its alternative budget, both through increased general framework transfers and through earmarked bets in important and vulnerable areas. It is the most important thing this Assembly can do — could have done — in the state budget of the year to ensure the basic welfare services for our citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1158	In the context of the regional reform, many county councils were excited about the tasks to be taken over, and all lived in the belief that the tasks would be fully financed. But one of the tasks that many people didn't want was to take over fishing ports. The main reason for this was that the Kyststverket did a formidable job here and put on a unique competence at its offices that cannot be easily transferred to the county municipalities. But as you know, the fishing ports were one of the first proposed transfers. This is probably an example of new tasks where there are no funds for responsible implementation. The counties More and Romsdal, Trøndelag, Nordland and Troms and Finnmark have not signed an agreement to take over the fishing ports. These counties say in a joint budgetary statement that it is because the offer that follows the task assignment is irresponsiblely low. For the Nordic region, 130 million a year is needed. kr only for use. The State's bid is 120,5 million. kr, but total to all these counties, which are to be distributed between them. So scepticism is understandable. Another example is the transfer of responsibility for cultural memory management. In the long-term Nordic region, there is a task under government responsibility that requires four years' work. Now the county has the same responsibility. It comes with funds, but the funds are only for a total of 90 000 kroner. As the representative Haltbrecken was inside, another area where county municipalities are penalised is the investment in climate-friendly ferries and fast boats. Many county councils are conscious of their responsibilities and require zero- and low-emission vessels in their tenders. But this costs, and the government's contribution monks too little. The Center Party has added 200 million. kr – in concrete terms for this area – but we are asking that in the future, corruption and government will be able to find funding for this effort to support the regions in what may be the most important effort to reduce emissions. There are too many examples of tasks carried over without accompanying funds. There is no secret that both the Right Party and the Advance Party want to liquidate the county level, but it is very unfair to do so in such a way that the county councils are pressed economically and thereby face major challenges in providing services to their inhabitants. Either the county councils will be able to do their tasks – old and new, large and small – or the government will be more clear on its own agenda in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1171	The recent articles of the evening post have given us an undisclosed picture of Norwegian elderly care. There is evidence that there is widespread use of power, and that there is a human rights violation in Norwegian hospitals. The challenge in municipalities is great in terms of both staffing and competence in hospitals. VG has documented the government's major failure in implementing the interaction reform. Health professionals invoice Norwegian municipalities for large sums each year for printable patients that the municipality is unable to accept when they are going to. From 2012 to 2018, health care providers in Norwegian municipalities have health benefits of a total of 1.4 billion. kr, and the level is increasing. Developments here are also worrying. Norwegian municipalities are best placed to provide basic health and care services in both prevention, drug use, mental health, rehabilitation, care for the elderly, etc. The local economy is decisive for this. The level of the fine is a warning from a community sector with higher and higher health responsibilities, but it has not been given a framework to develop its health services in line with their responsibilities. Under this government, health professionals have been more powerful at the expense of municipalities. It is the municipalities that have to take responsibility for patients when hospitals cut their health supply because the government has to streamline. The interaction reform, which was a policy reform aimed at ensuring that the growth of health services is now taking place in the municipalities, is austerity reform for Norwegian hospitals. VG has also documented the unworthy practice of many health care providers when it comes to transportation from hospitals — older patients who are widely outsourced and transferred from hospitals to municipalities in the middle of the night. VG told me about a 90-year-old woman who, in 26 hours, was moved between three levels of health services just before she died. It is a strong example of a health care system that is no longer valued but money-driven. Today, Stortinget is debating local economy. My point is that community economics and health services are not developed in a vacuum. They're both influenced by an interaction with the state and the state supply. When the state cuts in its supply, it's the municipality that gets responsibility. This is true in the care of the elderly, but it also applies to, for example: the emergency response, which when the health care provider cuts off the emergency response. Then it is the fire service and the medical guard who must cover up. The hospital cuts – the municipality has to pay. This situation cannot continue. This is one of the reasons why the Centre Party prioritises public hospitals and a strong increase in the municipal council of the State budget for 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1188	What is going to stand after this government is unsocial cut off for disadvantaged, massive centralization and completely undocumented good effects of tax cuts to the freshest and most prosperous among us. There are many who are affected by one of the most important things in life, namely having a safe home. After this government took over, we've become half a million more people in this country. Nevertheless, there are many thousand fewer people who get housing support. Then you can take a little look at income trends in the country. Are many of the disadvantaged and those with poor advice better advised? No, not at all. On the contrary, they have received less advice. What's happened to the bolt poisons? Have they gone down? No, they don't. This is very serious. There's a lot of thousands of people who get support, and those who get maybe get a little bit more in dollars and ears, but it doesn't close the gap between the increased boutes and the reduced revenue. The few who get, they get less. It's completely impossible to understand that it's going to have to be like that. It's completely unnecessary. I hear the government now say that you have spent money on your daughter, but the jam was supposed to lack as much money as this government has, that you could not spend any more of this money on any of those who are not even sure that they can pay rent and electricity bills. It will, therefore, we believe that the system of housing aid needs to be changed. New workers must be allowed to participate in the housing aid scheme. They didn't. So it was only the Right who promised not to compensate the entire loss for the damage when you left that arrangement. Therefore, it is quite shocking that, during the financial debate, SV did not receive a majority in favour of the proposal to improve the housing support scheme. It is also necessary to amend the start-up loan scheme so that more young people may be able to buy their own housing when they do not have their parents’ or grandparents’ bank in order. They can earn enough to serve the loan, but they don't get loans because they don't come from a family with a lot of money. In addition to this, we need to invest much more in lifts, which are a low-threshold service in good ageing policies and a good policy for people with disabilities. I am quite shocked by the Progress Party, which has now been in government for six years, has presented two action plans and still manages to blame the previous government for not getting a roadmap for universally designed schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1199	With the Central Party's alternative budget, we are definitely getting less growth in the districts, and in addition, we are getting fewer government jobs outside Oslo. As you know, the centre party will also sign us out of the EEA, which is our most important agreement, and on which thousands of Norwegian jobs depend. I was very surprised by the lines of the representative Sivertsen from the Workers' Party in the change of lines with the Council of State. He showed a genuine belief that increased taxes on business will provide growth in business. The center party is no better than them either. In addition to increased taxes on business, they will have a tourist tax at the top. There is no guarantee of anything better in the districts with such a policy. Everyone can fear this, in both Ulvik, Geilo, Lofoten, Røros and Alta. Increased taxes on business in the districts are not what they need to create more jobs, optimism and growth in district municipalities. A little greeting to the Center Party: They will reverse much of the policy to the government. Almost everything the government has done, they want to reverse. But what is quite surprising is that they will actually also take up the 1 220 public and state positions that the government has moved out and established outside Oslo. They're gonna cut $1.7 billion. kr. We have heard earlier today that the Valdirektoratet should be shut down. The tasks do not disappear; we should still have options in Norway. They must be added back to the Ministry of Local Affairs. It also applies to the Maritime Directorate in Haugesund – several options need to be removed. The Competition Authority gets three cuts as many as the Maritime Directorate. A lot of settings are missing. The rule board in Henefoss should be laid down, everyone added will lose the job. The centre party shall terminate the State Investigation Commission for the Health Service in Stavanger – 19 to which smoke is added. To Kjersti Top: Do we not need this oversight? Joining the Fisheries Directorate must go, as must the Oil Directorate in Stavanger and in Harstad. It's supposed to cut 25.6 million. The Ministry's service organisation and 19 added to Engerdal fear of their posts. The same applies to county councils: in both Arendal, Bodø, Vadsø, Leikanger and throughout the country must be added. In addition, the Directorate of Administration and ICT in Leikanger needs to look after new jobs. In the national authority for communication, it is unclear who is exploding. Is it added in Lillesand, Lillehammer or Lødningen? This does not say anything about the central party budget. That's how I can do it. My list is very long, and I see it's already red. But this is going very hard on the districts, both in terms of court structure, criminal services, prisons and the police. Everyone gets big cuts, and basically this goes beyond the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1216	Politics is a lot about what we say, but also a lot about what we do. When we look at the alternative budgets from the other parties, we can also see that they say one thing, but they choose to do something completely different. While the entire opposition has criticised the red tape reform, which has released nearly 10 billion. kr that can be used for the welfare of people around Norway, so they use the money to free the reform. I think it is quite incredible that you can say that you are opposed to a reform, but at the same time, all the money is spent by the reform. We also see it when it comes to digitization. I remember that before the 2017 election campaign, the Labour Party leader, Jonas Gahr Støre, flew to Silicon Valley himself and promised a change of pace when it came to digitisation. The change in pace promises the Workers' Party again in the adjustment, but in the change in line we hear that the change in pace will be by strengthening the state's own employees. But the problem is that there is no money in the Labour Party budget to strengthen that work in the state. Then the result of billions in cuts to consultants is that you have to say no to some of the digitization projects that the government has started, and I would very much like to have heard from the Workers' Party which it should be. One of the things that fascinates me most about the criticism here is the criticism from the Labour Party about the community scheme. So the working party says they're increasing the action space for Norwegian municipalities by 2.5 billion. kr, but the reality is that quite a lot of this money is tied up to new, earmarked schemes, which are also underfunded and charged from Youngstorget. If we take a look at what has been the main election promise of the Labour Party this year — school food — it is promised that there will be 290 million. kr to finance half of the municipality's pledge. If you do a simple summation, it's going to cost Norwegian municipalities well over 1 billion. to introduce the main electoral vow of the Workers' Party. The problem is that the Workers' Party does not provide the free income to pay the other half. It just gets pretty hollow when the opposition comes together to say one thing, but chooses to do something completely different.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1228	In the harvest people made choices, and people went to the ballot boxes for improvement. The centre party wants much stronger municipalities and counties. We want stronger municipalities with more funds to provide services and well-being for people. We demand less bureaucracy and more trust. Investing in the future is investing in children and young people. The size wants more adults to follow up the children in kindergartens, but the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party do not provide a budget to make this happen. Small private kindergartens are purchased or laid down throughout the country. Municipalities merge branches. For next year, KS reports that there are 275 million missing. kr only for the municipal kindergartens, and in 2022 it was dragged up to 700 million. kr for both private and municipal kindergartens. Governments seem to think things look different. Next year, new curricula will also be incorporated into schools throughout the country. I am pleased that the Minister of State was concerned about this in his speech, but the Senter Party lacks a real commitment to the development of competence in schools and for the teachers, where the enormous effort is being put down. There is little help with big ambitions in Stortinget about more play, practical learning and coding in school if teachers don't get tools and skills to follow this up. Instead, priority is given to competence requirements and teacher specialists. This has failed. The huge sum of municipalities have to enter the fissure layer, nor does the government take into account. Municipalities receive a zero settlement in 2020. This means that, in parallel with a claim to bet on professional and new curricula in high school, we get massive reductions in line and school provision. If the economy was not demanding enough, the government will also demand free schooling. This centrally controlled change is the opposite of what the government claims to do, namely to provide local space for action and governance. This is the opposite of trust. The Central Party believes that a commitment must be made locally, where local politicians are given power and influence over how funds are distributed. For the professional sector, we propose 300 million. kr, so that carpenters can have the hammer in their hands from the first day, and more relevant equipment and better provision of apprenticeships in the counties. We also want more of decentralised education and regional research. The centre party will invest in education and skills, and we will invest in children and young people across the country. But we need a much better budget if we are to get this done.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1241	To the representative Trellevik first: Yes, the Central Party cuts funds to the commission of inquiry in Stavanger. This is an expensive system, it wasn't a recommended measure in the NOU on patient safety, and the government financed the creation by shutting down the very widely used reporting system. So it's not like there's been anything better about adding this investigation commission to Stavanger. What I wanted to talk about was the system. Today is the Thursday, and then it's good to talk about the fasting when we're going to debate the municipal budget. The stipulations are unlikely to be important. It is the basic wall of the health service itself and takes care of approx. 90 pst. of the activity. But what is happening is that the system is in crisis. Young corpses refuse to apply for available options; experienced lay ends with heavy heart. Developments have gone in the wrong direction during this government. Once upon a time, this was a district problem, but now even the biggest cities are struggling. There is a pressing need for action in both the short and long term, and I believe that the government has not seen the seriousness of this situation. The fixed arrangements are underfunded, fixed tasks have increased, and after the implementation of the interaction reform, fragile patients are discharged from hospitals in the past. It is this responsibility that has been taken into account. A lot of work with accomplices also takes time, such as writing medical certificates to the elephants in the secondary school that is not concerned about hell, but about their absence. They also manage a wide range of tasks, and they need time to do the job they need. The 2020 state budget does not provide for the necessary strengthening of the fixed medical regime, and the government will provide an action plan for the first time in the spring. An action plan is good, but there is a need for concrete action now. Therefore, in its alternative budget, the Central Party proposes a national commitment to the enhanced recruitment mechanism. We propose 400 new generals in specialization, so-called ALIS settings, for next year. Similar efforts must also be made in the next few years. Then there is also a need to clean up work. Shorter list lengths are needed, better funding is needed in general, and not least more needs to be determined. In addition, a doctor’s watch must be considered to be more a part of the regular schedule of work. This will cost money, but it will cost more to stay away, because failure in the system is a short way to private solutions and a two-part healthcare system in Norway, and such a development will not have the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1258	In this debate, there has been talk of efficiency improvement, migration, centralisation, service cuts, etc. It's easy to be high and dark in opposition. There will be a rapid difference between rhetoric and practical policy. None of us can meet tomorrow's challenges with yesterday's solutions. Nor can we settle accounts without hosts in our budgets. The coverage side should therefore be as interesting as the expenditure side and the budget. Several have been involved in the ABE reform. Some people call it cheese-happy. I have to say, I think it's strange that after all the criticism that has been against the ABE reform from the red-greens, the same parties choose to keep the space for action that the reform provides in their own budgets. In addition, the centre part will cut another 1.7 billion. kr in the government bureaucracy in its alternative budget. That's a lot. The ABE reform is a reform that is predictable from year to year. The additional cut of the centre party is a larger cut that will be difficult to implement without any downsizing. It will affect the district workplaces, as the centre party talks so much about otherwise, as we saw in the line change. It is in stark contrast to creating growth throughout the country, which has been the Central Party's mantra in the election campaign. It is important to reduce red tape and make the public sector more efficient, but we need to have more thoughts in our head at the same time, for example. reducing red tape by means of digitisation, as the government does by means of the digitalisation strategy, disseminating power by relocating jobs to the whole country or reducing tasks. We rarely hear about such policies from the Center Party, but we hear a lot about stopping centralization. However, we see very little of that in the Central Party's alternative budget. They make few changes to government reforms and instead contribute with targeted cuts in jobs in districts. In addition, through theirconsultants, they are targeting digitisation projects that are just about to red tape the country. Red-green lots moved out or newly established 240 jobs outside Oslo in the period 2009–2013. Under this government, we have moved out or newly established 1,222 state jobs. I notice, as the representative Trellevik, that the Centre Party is financing its investments, among others. by cutting heavily in the EEA funds. I understand that you can be against the EEA, but to cut 2 billion. kr in the EEA quota from one year to another is serious. Then we can expect reactions from our trading partners as well, and a trade war is the last Norwegian job needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1271	Every day, at Stortinget, we receive enquiries from desperate residents, businesses, municipalities and county councils. When I hear the representatives from the government parties, it sounds as if they have not received the same enquiries. I don't think they have a single challenge to solve. There's still talk about how good everything is, and how good it is. In order to deal with a crisis, it must first be recognised that it exists. And then you have to have the will to do something about it without pointing at anyone else than yourself. I want to talk about the tasks that county councils have, and their importance for business development, to achieve climate goals and to have a settlement throughout the country. The county roads are now between 50 billion. and 70 B.C.E. kr. That's 60 pst. greater risk of death on a country road than on a national road. We now see notified cuts in school services, line closures, cuts in collective services, ferry and fast boat services, increased fares and postponement of the requirements of the tunnel safety regulation. In addition, through a regional reform, the counties will now have new tasks, which are not fully financed, and most of the counties are in the midst of a merger process. The municipal and county debt per capita has doubled in recent years, and there is a paradox when government parties talk about the ROBEK list. Nevertheless, what should also concern the representatives of the government parties is the situation in the Norwegian business community. Entrepreneurship is struggling both with the economy and with recruitment, innovation and predictability. There will be a shortage of 30 000 skilled workers in 2030. The proportion of bankruptcies this year is soon at the same level as in the financial crisis. In addition, the government is now to override state policies by introducing character-based input, a centralisation policy that will have a major impact on recruitment to key sectors where natural resources are located. Government policy indicates that they are unable to listen. They run fire-fighting, not prevention.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1282	There's a lot of self-confidence from the government. The representatives Benestad, Trellevik and Lønseth come with the purest Trump-tweeters about their own excellence. State Council of Malta itself says that the draft budget is well received – in the purest Trump rhetoric, as a defense for the worst municipal settlement of 15 years. Yes, I understand that the Council of State may need to serve what we might call alternative facts, but there's nothing better about it. So they all of a sudden admit on direct questions that e.g. Osterøy's politicians are not wrong, they are right in their criticism from Osterøy. This is where the ball goes. On the one hand, the government representatives and the government believe that the municipalities receive more than enough money, but must admit that it is not enough when they have to answer direct questions. Then they go into strong attacks on the Workers' Party's alternative budget proposal – once again in the best Trump-tweet style, and they do it that way with full consideration. They feel threatened by the fact that the Workers' Party has clearly shown that it is possible to give a boost to the local economy. It is possible to give municipalities more money and more opportunities than the government can afford. It is not good for the government, I understand that the Labour Party so clearly shows these possibilities. That's why you use the old term: Attack is the best defense. Three billion. kr more to the municipalities, as the Workers' Party suggests in its alternative, had made a difference out there. I'm going to admit that it hadn't solved all the problems, all the challenges the municipalities face, but it would have made it a little easier for the municipalities actually to be able to lift the services – instead of, as many municipalities now have to do, to cut in these services. As I said, 3 billion. SEK more for municipalities and county municipalities, 60 million. kr more to Sametinget, 350 mill. kr to cover the financing of resource-intensive users, regional development funds have a strengthening of 200 million. kr. The Labour Party can invest in the local economy because we distribute differently from the government. We prioritise community and welfare for the inhabitants of all municipalities, across the country – well-being where people live.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1293	My coworkers from SV have been involved, but I want to elaborate on it a little bit more. It is a very important topic, namely that strict targets in the Environment and Green Gas Emissions Biggest, what we have adopted here in the Chamber, are not being followed up by money. In fact, it limits to dishonesty that we in Stortinget vote for county councils to choose zero-emission solutions and for new ferries, etc. shall be acquired without the additional costs involved in the transition being met. Several counties, such as the West, have announced expenditure increases in several hundreds of millions of people. It has to be covered up. They simply cannot do this without increasing ticket prices or cancelling departures. There we are. Ioda, Enova grants a little bit for charging installations, but it doesn't go at all for the extra expenses I'm talking about. That is why, in the last few years, we have spent several hundred million kroner on phase-in of zero-emission solutions for public transport and ferries in the municipality. This year, it's 300 million. kr in our alternative budget. The same applies to the county roads. It was also mentioned by the representative of Leirtrø. The counties have more than 40 000 km of road for which they have been responsible. Did they hear that – over 40,000 km of road? And how does the President think that there is a need for maintenance, racial protection and rehabilitation? I'm on the Transport Committee and I've heard a lot of numbers for the maintenance crew. Maybe it's 30 billion. kr, if we are very optimistic. Maybe it's 40 billion. Do you really want to delete this item? 50 B.C.E. Do you really want to I think Leirtrø just mentioned even higher sums. And I've heard a lot of complaints from county rapporteurs in the west and in the north when we've traveled around – about racial protection, for example. We have a national racial protection group that strongly argues for more means to make it more accessible in the districts and not least to make it safer to live in the districts. But no, it's going incredibly slowly to increase the funds. As the SV's representative on the Transport Committee, I have repeatedly demanded that there should be some honesty from the government parties – in fact, all the largest parties – in order to prioritise within this transport budget. But it doesn't happen very much that you take away, for example. the major motorway projects to safe roads for use in districts. We've suggested that many times. This year we've transferred 184 million. kr to the County Framework for Better Racial Protection. That is at least our contribution to our alternative budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1302	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1307	Representatives of the government later as if an increased municipal economy would not be better for the municipalities so they can solve their problems. Yes, of course – as more money for public transport, equipment parks in high school, racial protection, payment of the tasks you have received, more money for walking and cycling, financing the standard of staffing in kindergartens by 500 million. I'll give the municipalities $400 million. SEK to follow up the poor families that the government pushes over to the municipalities, that you get 300 million. DKK for mental health protection and 250 million. kr for better school health service, that you get 250 million. kr for increased manning and that the point of entry for resource-intensive services is reduced by 350 million. kr. This is money that the municipalities need to carry out the tasks that they have all been assigned to them and that the government is seriously underfunded.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1314	We are still seeing new letters from local politicians, including those from the Right, which state that these are the most difficult frameworks the Municipality of Norway has had in 15 years, the most pressing framework since Erna was Minister for Municipal Affairs. Osterøy Right-wing local politicians are warning about cuts that are so powerful that they do not know if they are able to follow up the statutory tasks. Right-wing local politicians have tried to make the government change course. I see that today the Right-Rapporteurs have a bulwark in the evening post asking for a reform break. But obviously they are not being listened to. Yeah, the municipalities always think there's too little money. No, we haven't experienced such a massive concern in the last 15 years, since we had the rapporteur's appeal, where the right-wing rapporteurs in the Trondelag went out openly and asked for a different government in the ministry. I understand it is nice to spread ‘fake news’ that the Centre Party is reducing district work places and getting the debate on another track. We cut red tape, and the bureaucracy is the biggest in Oslo, so the cut is the biggest in Oslo. We cut a total of 1.5 billion. kr. We are strengthening the municipal sector with the triple. So we have at least twice as many new posts in the municipalities as we cut. It's teaching positions, it's nursing positions, it's kindergarten workers, it's people who work close to the users, instead of oversized bureaucracy. So, for example, we cut. at County– we will not continue the municipal reform, we will cut what has been granted there. The county gets less to do, the government itself has said that there should be fewer objections and that there should be more listening to local democracy. If they intend to follow it up, which my municipality has not yet discovered, it will mean that there will be less to do with the county municipality. And it's got to be cutting red tape. We want a trust reform, with confidence in employees, less bureaucracy, less reporting and more practical work. So to the municipal reform – I see today that the right-wing rapporteurs are asking for a break in that reform, and we are being ridiculed because we are going to reverse it. Of course, we should not continue a reform that is so totally unsuccessful. We can look at all the municipalities that have now chosen to merge and report that the economy has become much worse. We had not dreamed that it would be so demanding after the merger, then we would never have said yes, is essentially the mantra. Finally, I would like to inform you that we support the proposal No. 10, 11, 17, 20, 22 and 25.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1329	There's a story here about everything going so well in the municipalities. One example is the number of municipalities on the ROBEK list. It's going so well because there are so few municipalities on the ROBEK list. But it's about economic balance. While the government parties point to this argument, we are also told that there are more municipalities that need to use savings funds and budgets with higher expenditure than income in 2020. It's the recipe in tough times, and you don't have a brighter time to meet. It is also told a story that everything is going so well in the municipalities – at least as long as you get together, because with large environments of expertise it becomes an attractive place to work. But the fact is that the lack of sufficiently qualified teachers across the country is one of the biggest challenges the school will face in the coming years. Very many municipalities report that they have difficulty attracting employees with approved teaching skills in all subjects. The situation is difficult across the country, but the situation is particularly challenging in North Norway, where the teaching shortage is the largest. Undercovering qualified teachers is not a new issue. In recent years, the government has implemented several policy decisions, strengthening an already challenging recruitment situation. The central party is critical that the government has introduced a requirement for the grade 4 in mathematics for admission to teacher training. At the same time, they have put in place skills requirements to teach retrospectively, thereby helping to separate thousands of teachers with many years of experience. The queues for continuing training were enormously long before these new requirements arrived. In addition, the introduction of a five-year teacher training course, which means that in 2021 no new teachers will be graduated despite the enormous number of posts to fill. In total, government policy reinforces an unbridled and unfortunate recruitment situation in school, and poor local economy does not exactly help to improve the situation. It's like the representative, Mr. Greni said, these positions we want to invest in and build the country on, are positions in the first line, and the people who meet the people in their everyday lives. It's these teachers who stand and teach and have to make a difference. To bet on children and young people in the future – that's what the Centre Party wants to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1340	Towards the end of this debate I must say it is a predictable debate. It can be a good thing, too. That means there have been no dramatic changes in the political positions in the last year. But there's a lot of claims going around, and I'm going to comment on some of them. First to the representative Trellevik, who was very indignant at the pulpit instead of that I had arranged for an increased tax on business. No, I haven't done that today at all. What I did, on the other hand, was that I took the liberty of changing lines with the Council of State, Meland, asking what tax havens were thought to have a territorial effect. And then I got an answer to that. I have said, and I am in favour of it, that it is still not the growth-promoting sides of that kind of tax haven and tax cuts documented, which has been demanded for a long time. I have heard the representatives of the government parties repeatedly talk about 30 billion. spend more on municipalities in the last few years. It was just supposed to be missing! There are, after all, more and more people in this country. There are new tasks to be solved – only the demographic costs are a significant part of it. We were actually going to discuss the state budget for next year, and not the years that have gone by, but the government parties have been most concerned about. Since we then had long speeches about all the billions that came in the years that were, I can say last year we took a look at it and looked at the average growth in income over time and compared the red-green government period to the time that the government of Solberg has been sitting. Then it turned out that there was a 0.6 percentage point difference. It doesn't sound much, but when you add up the effect of it, and these are numbers from last year, it's going to be approximate numbers because size changes. But the calculations were made, and the difference between a red-green level of funding for the municipal sector and the government of Solberg was about 14 billion. kr. This is like two ships are laying off berths with a few degrees difference in course. It's not that big a difference to start with, but accumulated over time, it's a completely different direction and you end up in a completely different place. That's where the political divides go. The question is whether we want to strengthen well-being and want to strengthen communities, or whether a person wants to build it down, and let individuals have greater responsibilities and risks themselves. Then both Holm Lønneth and Trellevik have been inside and tried to argue that the Workers' Party gives less room for action. Honestly! We have in addition to what the government grants, which the government describes as an amazingly good arrangement for the municipalities, 2.5 billion. SEK to the primary municipalities, of which 2 billion. kr has been made visible how we, among others. Takes back missing appropriations from the government on crew standards and other things. In addition, it's 500 million. kr over, which is not tied up in any way. There'll be more room for action, and no less.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1356	The representative of Ove Trellevik has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1361	Now there's going to be a lot of criticism here because there's going to be very little use of money. So we're starting this budget round with a negative budget impulse of 0.2 pst. That means we're going to spend less oil money. Then I have to be allowed to boast of the council and the rest of the government that can actually get a little growth into the municipal budget – so the municipalities are not the biggest losers in this. So they're going to have honor for that. So to the SV representative Nävra, who complains to the county councils: 17 200 kilometers by county road is transferred from the state to the county. It was completely underfunded last time the red-green set in government. We have started to absorb this delay, but there is still a lot of work to be done. There's a lot of stuff hanging around here. So to Osterøy: Osterøy municipality was, as I mentioned earlier today, on the ROBEK list in the period of the red-green set with power. Today they're out. The ROBEK list provides a good description of the development of the municipal sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1370	The Minister for Digitalisation spoke very much about precisely digitisation, and I would like to join in. But we would like to – once again – clarify the importance of absolutely everyone having access to high-speed Internet. Yeah, of course it has to be over 100 Mbits per second. The centre party states that we therefore – this year as before – believe that we should spend 0.5 billion. kr in the year on development, until we have reached the target, and it will apply everywhere in our country. On questions from the representative Sivertsen, the Council of State replied in my eyes somewhat reassuringly to the existence of Altinn at the Brønn Island Health Registers. I would like to remind you that the split of Altinn to Diffi was criticised, among other things. on the grounds that the pace of development and coordination of digital services could be reduced. We are still asking for a clear assurance that Altinn will not be changed further, and that the development of the Brønn Island Health Registers will be ensured. Finally, representatives from the Right interpret the Centre's alternative budget in a creative way, and it's on their account. At the same time, it was claimed that the opposition through its budgets says one thing, but will have to practice something completely different. Then I would like to draw parallels to the fact that the government parties seem to be very satisfied – necessarily – with their own budget and their own priorities, but I record that people around our country often seem to be of a different kind. The center party takes note of it and will continue to listen to the inhabitants, because we think it's a sensible thing to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1379	I note that several speakers from the government parties choose to use speaking time in the debate on the municipal committee's budget to refer to the Central Party's cuts in EEA funds. But when questions are first asked and commented on, it is at least possible to base some facts. Last year, the government cut off $0.5 billion. SEK in the EEA funds in revised because one did not have a project to spend the money on. Then one might think that the government in the draft budget for next year showed some moderation in the allocation of EEA funds, but instead they provide for an increase of 1.7 billion. kr – at a historically high amount of 4,5 billion. kr. The centre party is concerned that we should cooperate with other countries, that we should have a liberal aid budget, that we should help those who need help in the world. But EEA funds have become a gigantic system without control and control. When we ask the government what kind of project these 4.5 billion. kr shall be used for, the government may not respond to it. Then the father is very big because there are just coming new projects, like you've seen before, to celebrate the day of the game, or to fencing with people in Viking equipment or to a bird boxing project. We need to have governance and control over public money, so that we can really spend the money on what's most important, good services near people. Representatives from the government parties referred to the cut of the Central Party in bureaucracy. Yes, under this government here, the number of employees in the directorate alone increased by over 2,000 over a few years. Clearly, we need to look at how we reduce bureaucracy in order to facilitate good services near people. It's absolutely right that some places we also cut in red tape other than Oslo, even though the biggest cuts are coming there. But when, for example, Cuts of 2.5 million. kr in Norec i Förde, we return in municipal economy to the municipality an amount that is four times as large, as well as that we reverse the government of the municipal tax collector, which also affects both Sunnfjord and other municipalities. In addition, even if we don't love Western states, we make sure that Western states get 435 million. kr extra next year. It will help us to solve the situation in county roads, it can contribute to racial protection, and we provide good services close to people.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1390	The representative Heidi Greni has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1395	The representative of Trellevik could have read the position on this matter today, because he had then seen that the Senterpartiet actually has a strong rural growth commitment of 12 billion. DKK over 10 years. There may also be some district work places. The central section has barely 2 billion. kr extra to county councils, of which 1 billion. kr to the country road. There may be some district work places of it as well. And then we get criticism of the tourist tax, because we've opened up to the municipalities the possibility of introducing a tourist tax. You can ask the industry in the districts whether it is a voluntary tourist tax that the municipality agrees on, which is the worst, or whether it is the sugar tax that moves the jobs to Sweden, which is the worst, or whether it is the airline tax that makes it very demanding, or the petrol tax – we can actually go on indefinitely.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1400	The representative Stein Erik Lauvås has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1405	There came the cats out of the bag. The representative of Trellevik said that the municipalities are not the biggest losers in this budget. I think that was a very fine clarification, but then this question immediately comes to mind: who is the biggest losers in this budget? It would have been nice if you could get an answer. Otherwise, I would just like to make it clear once again that the municipalities are one of the winners of the Labour Party's draft budget. We're very proud of that. We have now arrived that the representative Trellevik and the other government party representatives in this Chamber, including from the Progress Party, the Left and Christian People's Party, will today vote in favour of a loss budget for the municipalities. That's not going to happen to the Workers' Party. We're going to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1414	First, let me reassure the representative Bøkestad Andreassen of the Senterpartiet that the assurances I have given around Altinn are at work. There are no plans to move the establishment in Altinn out of Brønnøysund, and there are no plans to reduce the level of activity in Altinn in Brønnøysund. I would like to thank you for the debate. It shows that all parties in this room are concerned with good services in the municipalities. That's good. Then we disagree on how good services are, and for example. on how to reduce red tape. Some even believe that detail management gives less bureaucracy than target management, e.g. If we are to achieve good services, digitisation is going to be a very important tool. That's why it's disappointing that the opposition barely mentions digitisation as a tool to give people a simpler life, better services and contribute to just services near people – and not just that, but it's going in the wrong direction. So the working party is proposing to cut the 1.8 billion. kr or 23 pst. in the state consulting practice. Important ICT projects are going to be affected in many large state institutions. The Center Party is proposing a cut of 700 million. in addition to a targeted cut in what is the country’s main tool for national common components, namely the new Digitalisation Directorate. It's ironic that there's just a representative from the Center Party who asks me about the status of Altin, when they choose to cut themselves into the Digitalization Directorate where Altin is to be incorporated. Can the centre party then guarantee that the cut will not go out on the business in Brønnøysund? It's a question to ask to the Center Party. SV does not mention digitisation at all in its main comment in this setting, and it is strange in itself. So it seems that the country's leading municipal politicians from the opposition are totally uninterested in what digitisation can bring about gains for the Norwegian people and for the public sector. The future has come to be, and digitisation is going to give completely new opportunities to solve these problems in new and better ways in the future, not least when we get things online, artificial intelligence and 5G in combination. But it's not going to come of itself. It will require that we, as politicians, make use of the opportunities and have an active digitalisation policy. I don't see any trace of an active policy of digitisation from the opposition at all. Thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1427	Then part 1 of the debate is over, and the Storting goes on to part 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1432	Some of the big problems facing the world are how to take care of people on the run, and how to live together across inequalities, when people need to move on. The refugee disaster in the world is greater than ever. In this respect, SV believes that Norway has both enough money and space to receive some more and fulfil the desire of the United Nations for Norway to receive more than 5,000 quota refugees. There are many more who also need assistance. We know there's an escalating crisis in Greece. The situation in the refugee camps there is extreme. Norway even chooses to return asylum seekers through the Dublin Institute to Greece, where there are now so terrible conditions in the camps that even the right-wing government there says it has gone over all the boots. Therefore, SV proposes that we accept some asylum seekers from Greece, examine their application here, and that we stop returning to Greece. This headless panic that has resulted from these restrictions that violate the Refugee Convention puts Norway in a rather embarrassed role internationally in taking responsibility for maintaining and maintaining the civilisation it is to have the Refugee Convention. It seems to last. In the discussion we've had in the last few days about unresectable, paperless refugees who stay in Norway, we see it playing out. We've just witnessed a Nav scandal, and in the wake of it, the leader of the UDI has been out saying that they've been practicing the Children's Convention wrong in some cases of expulsion, and they have. I have some issues about unreturnable: Man, paperless, unreturnable, had been in Norway for 11 years – then he met UNSjål and got to stay in Norway after § 28, and if the others don't know what it is, it's asylum. Mann, 9 years old in Norway, paperless, unreturnable, got help to bring his case up in court and got asylum. Man, 13 years old in Norway, without paper, was also allowed to stay after § 28, asylum. The reason why I'm saying this is that some people later like people who are unresectable, just have bad will, and that they can go home right when they want to. Many of these have quite rightly feared for their own lives if they are returned. Many of them cannot be returned because they come from countries where there are no documents that are notable in Norway, and then they have no opportunity to prove their identity. A good principle in Norway is that all those who can do so should take care of themselves in honest work. It is SV's proposal today, and I hope the Storting will join in. In addition, SV proposes that minor asylum seekers become a responsibility for the protection of children. The UN has also told us that it is a breach of our obligations when we treat children differently from who they are. All shall have the same protection and follow-up — whether they are Norwegian-born, or whether they are lone minor asylum seekers. In the area of integration, there is much that could be done, and the best thing would be if the government parties stopped talking so unilaterally negatively and problematically about everyone who comes to Norway and has foreign origins. SV also proposes a massive focus on quality-enhancing in integration work, from the introduction system to the language training of Jobshansen to the follow-up in Nav. Either you are on the Nav and are Norwegian, or you are on the Nav and the Intro system, you need to complete skills that some employers in Norway need. Therefore, SV is repeating their proposals now to improve the introduction system, so that we do not waste so much money on a bad scheme. It is not possible for municipalities to differentiate the introduction system more if they do not receive funds, for several parallel classes costs more than one.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1458	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1463	As Andersen's representative said in his contribution, there are record people on the run in the world today, and many more need to stay than what we are in the vicinity of being able to give. At the same time, we know that wars, conflicts and disasters are different in character and that the domestic situation can also change over time. Nevertheless, in one of its observations in the budget position, SV states that they are ‘disagreed in the policy relating to the termination of a residence permit due to changes in the country of origin’. Reference is also made to a quotation where the termination of a residence permit is characterised as a symbolic policy. Then I wonder if SV believes that the termination of a residence permit due to a change in the home country should never take place – or when do they believe that such termination of a residence permit is in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1472	We believe that this is in place when we do what the UN Convention commits us to, and that is not what the government does. If you want to stop, the situation in your home country should be stable, it should be voluntary, and there should be a completely different setting around this than it is now. But my experience is that very many people want to go home again -- most people do, at least if it hasn't been very many years. The reason why they do that is because it's not possible, and it's very unsafe. So I really want us in Norway to be able to take on a stronger role, including foreign policy, in contributing to stability and peace and providing assistance in the neighbourhoods, so that it is possible for more people to return home voluntarily, because that is the very best solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1477	I have been in many debates on immigration and refugees with the representative Andersen, and I absolutely acknowledge Andersen's burning commitment to those who are fleeing the world. But what surprises me is that, over and over again, we end up spending all our time discussing those who have been rejected after a thorough treatment in Norway. Those who have been eloquently found that there is no need for protection are constantly taking the SV to try to stay in Norway, and questions are constantly being asked about the thorough treatment we have of asylum cases in Norway and legal certainty. Then my question is: does the representative trust that a legally executed decision in Norway is correct and that a judgment in this body is correct?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1484	I wish I were safer at that than I am today. These include: because last week the director of the UDI was out and sea admitting that not enough consideration has been given to the Convention on the Rights of the Child. I mentioned several cases in place where, by having received a different treatment, one has been allowed to stay after Section 28, which says that one has a right to asylum, and then one has a right to protection. SV and I believe that we can't stick with a swirl in these matters, because here it can actually be about life. Asylum is about people who need protection from persecution, torture and possibly being killed. That means that when there are so many cases being converted, both in appeal proceedings and in court, there is reason to be on guard and at least not to talk about what the Progress Party does, as if everyone who does not leave the country does not have a legitimate fear.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1491	I do not agree that the Progress Party is talking about everyone having dishonest purposes when they come to Norway. We know that most people who come now are allowed to stay, because we have a proper treatment of the asylum seeker process, and that they have given the right signals, so that those who have no need of protection, usually don't come either. But all systems have weaknesses, and it's not surprising that, after many years when there may have been some new information, you will get a different assessment after a certain period of time. But what is now going high on the ground is to grant a work permit, with the rights that may result from it, to persons who are not even believed to have a basis for protection or mistreatment – simply a general authorisation and several rights to those who have been rejected by the system, who refuse to cooperate with the authorities for a return and who do not have a need for protection or need Norway’s assistance. It'll go out on someone else. Why are they more important than others?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1500	No one has said that they are more important than others. What we're saying is that several of them have legitimate fear of returning. Several of them have got their case converted when they have been brought up again or have taken it to court. Many of them cooperate, but they can't be returned, and it's only common sense that people who have to be in the country are allowed to support themselves with honest work. The opposite is social dumping and undeclared work, and it destroys both working life and honest businesses. So it's just pure, common sense that people who are employed, who are here, who cannot be returned – and many of them work together – will be allowed to support themselves. It's an advantage for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1505	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1510	The refugee problem is one of the major challenges of our time. For every year that goes and we discuss this area here in this room, we see that the number of people on the run in the world is increasing dramatically. Over 70 million people are fleeing. 29 million of them are recognised by the United Nations as real refugees. As a rich country, we still have to ask ourselves the following questions: How are we going to have the best refugee policy? How are we going to be able to stand up for the greatest possible refugees in the world? If we are to have the best refugee policy, with humanism and solidarity for the refugees, no one can deny the following facts: it is that the main effort we are making is to set up in the neighbourhoods and in the beneficiary countries. That's 85 pst right there. by the world's refugees are, most without rights. It is not humanism, and it is not solidarity that they remain without rights – for several generations in some countries. Very many of them live under very bad conditions. Everyone who has visited refugee camps in the world knows what it's like there. Of course, it's about humanitarian aid, such as shelter, water, food, medicine, health and education, but we can do more to give hundreds of thousands of people hope for the future. That is why the Labour Party in its alternative state budget for 2020 says that we should start building an obliging solidarity pot that provides support to vulnerable beneficiary countries such as Jordan and Lebanon, which are home to millions of refugees, but which themselves face major economic challenges. If they collapse, it will lead to great disasters for the whole world. It is also about contributing to projects that ensure the work of refugees in the beneficiary countries – that refugees should actually have the opportunity to support themselves and their families in the neighbourhoods. This is good and proper refugee policy. It is known that the Labour Party has presented a radical change in its asylum policy. We say fewer asylum seekers at the border. Although there are few asylum arrivals today, due to international cooperation, we know that things can change quickly. That is why we have solutions that contribute to fewer asylum seekers, to give priority to greater efforts in the recipient countries and to giving priority to quota refugees. That's fair. We must get rid of the inhumane, unfair and unsustainable way of death across the Mediterranean. Quota refugees are the most vulnerable refugees in the world. They're real refugees. It is not a question of whether or not they are entitled to protection. Once they come to Norway, we know they have rights. And then we don't spend a lot of resources on return, which also goes beyond putting up with even more refugees in the world. By accepting quota refugees, we also relieve the recipient countries. In view of the low asylum arrival we have, and little family reunification, we support Norway's saying yes to 3 000 quota refugees in 2020. Quota refugees are also predictable for Norway and for the municipalities to live in, knowing how many they will receive, so that we are well prepared to achieve better integration in Norway. Let me address integration policy. The National Audit Office recently presented a report showing that, despite the fact that we spend a lot of money, we do not get good results, we do not ensure that the refugees get into the labour market in Norway. I have traveled around Norway and know that there is no lack of money, but actually doing what works. That is why we have also proposed a radical change of housing policy. We have to start already in the neighbourhoods where the quota refugees are picked up. It takes six to eight months for them to come to Norway. Intensive courses must be given both in Norwegian knowledge, in the way Norwegian working life is built up, and in the values for which we have to stand, and not least a thorough assessment of the competence of refugees – the responsibility of NOKUT – so that we can match the refugees with the municipality where there is the greatest chance of quickly entering the labour market. That policy is not in place today. We have to make demands for the municipalities. They have to be prepared. They shall cooperate with local employment and educational institutions, have adequate childcare facilities and cooperate with volunteering. It shall be well integrated from day one – and with quality. Norwegian training needs to become more professional and labour-navigational – competence and rapid association with the labour market. We have to make demands on people, show that in Norway the workline is the one that applies, and they have to have faith in the equality values on which the Norwegian society is based. That is why we have also put forward a number of demands and policies to take the fight against negative social control seriously. No one should be deprived of the freedom to succeed and have an independent life in Norway. I have talked about our whole new policy, about fewer asylum seekers to give priority to quota refugees in the future and even greater efforts in the recipient countries. Recently, we have had a debate on the return policy and it must be addressed. It is important that we call on the institution of asylum and that we have an effective return policy in Norway, that it is those who really need protection that should be here. Those who do not really need protection shall be returned. It is also important to note that forced return is not a prerequisite for return in Norway. They all, most of them, if they cooperate, have the opportunity to return voluntarily. But for the few, few people involved, who have collaborated in the return process on identity, on documentation, for a long time, but where there are things they don't even have, that make them unable to return, there is today a provision that can give them the opportunity to both stay and the right to work. I then look at the Minister of Justice and Immigration here today and say that it is important that that practice actually works. Because that's what we're talking about, that there's actually a provision in today's foreign policy for those who absolutely don't have the opportunity to return and who have tried for a long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1539	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1545	It is good to hear the representative of Gharahkhani tell us about the integration and asylum policy of the Workers' Party. There is not much where we cannot join, and I note that there is quite a large and broad consensus on the main lines. Although perhaps the concepts may be slightly different, it is clear that it is right that the representative says that the Labour Party has been through a radical change in its policy and is now joining the main course of government. But at one point I am a little uncertain about what the Workers' Party means, and it is about housing in the municipalities. The government follows a line that says you don't need to settle in municipalities or in places where more than 30 pst. of the population has a migrant background. The Municipality of Oslo, where the Workers' Party is at the head, was not so happy with this, and I wonder who the representative agrees with – the municipality or the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1552	The Labour Party's policy is clear: it should not be settled in areas with major living conditions challenges. I think the difference between Right and Right is that they go on ethnicity. We are concerned that we should give clear information to the municipalities that will settle, that it is not allowed to settle newly arrived refugees in areas with major living conditions challenges. It is not good for those areas, nor is it good for those refugees who are going to learn Norwegian and become part of Norwegian society, where we must also get good integration into leisure activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1557	I thank you for the answer. We can well see that there is often a connection between living conditions and background, unfortunately, and that is one of the important things that we have to work to change. Then there's another point I thought I'd also like to raise, and this is about starting Norwegian education and training in Norwegian social conditions in the camps before the quota refugees might come to Norway. I think it's very affordable to think about it. But the question is whether it's good money, whether it's good resource use. We're picking up refugees from many different places, and it'll be necessary then to establish, we'll say, units that travel, that work around. Wouldn't it be much better if you did the exact same thing just when you actually got here, and you're in a Norwegian frame?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1564	I thank you for the question, but the challenge today is that the policy of the government on integration is not working. We spend a lot of money without getting refugees into work, and then we have to start early. Six-eight months pass from the preparation of the refugees until they arrive in Norway, and in that process we must set in motion an intensive course in Norwegian and also around this with how the Norwegian community is built up. It's actually done today, but it can be done even more in those months. So it's about having a thorough survey of every single refugee before they get there, so that we match them with that municipality where there's the greatest chance of getting into the world of work. Today, it's really a game of chance, given where you end up, if you get into work as quickly as possible. This is precisely what our policy is about, that we should have good predictability for the municipalities, but also that we should start the integration from day one, where the way is to learn the Norwegian language, gain competence and link with the working life, which unfortunately today's government is not succeeding well enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1569	I must agree that it is a pleasure to hear the representative of Gharakhani talk about immigration policy, because he has adopted the immigration policy of the Progress Party. But what I'm more uncertain about is whether the Workers' Party has been through a radical change in its immigration policy, because we have seen that Gharahkhani has been around all over Norway and tried to convince the party that they have become strict, but the party does not agree. We're looking at it in a number of areas, we're looking at help in the neighbourhoods, we're looking at how many quota refugees you're going to receive, we're looking at scattered settlements, not least here in Oslo, where Raymond Johansen refuses to comply with the government's demands. We also see it in the case of insurmountables, where Raymond Johansen and other profiled workers' parties believe that we should open up to more illegal asylum seekers and grant them rights in Norway. So my question, and I'm really wondering, is, what does the representative of Gharakhani intend to do to really get the Workers' Party to agree with him in a more stringent immigration policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1574	The Labour Party unanimously adopted our new immigration and integration policy at the national meeting. What's interesting is that the whole list of sandwiches that Engen-Helgheim now mentions sounds like all of that quarrel you have internally in your own government. That is what is real, the great disagreement in immigration policy today in Norway is internal to today's government. That is not good, because in the field of immigration we need predictability, a policy in which we actually prioritise quota refugees, greater efforts in the recipient countries, and an integration policy in which we get to the integration from day one. That is what the Labour Party wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1579	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1584	Work is one of the most important keys to a dignified life. Having an opportunity to take care of their closest and self is fundamental to self-respect and the best starting point for establishing a good life in common with others. This applies to all of us, but it's perhaps most conspicuous when we're talking about the integration of refugees. This is why the main objective of the Right and Government’s integration policy is to help maximise job entry. This is therefore also behind the understanding of this year's draft government budget in the field of integration. The government paved the way for integration policy in the integration strategy plan through knowledge, which was presented just one year ago. Since then, targeted efforts have been made to implement the measures and to make good progress, as the year’s budget confirms. In the context of the budget, it is also necessary to mention the importance of creating a new law of integration. The law is expected to include, among others: identifying changes in the introduction programme, the aim of which is precisely to provide the basis for sustainable and stable participation in the labour market. Another aspect that has emerged since we dealt with the budget a year ago is the implementation of the regional reform, where important integration tasks are transferred to the counties. The counties had already been responsible for secondary education. The county also has a natural starting point for taking overall responsibility for the education and residence of immigrants, on the basis of a goal of improving the relationship between residence, qualification, education and work. Strengthening Jobjesen part B and 15 million. kr to a new vocational training grant scheme is a good contribution to strengthening this work and it will be exciting to follow developments and see what results it will produce. It is worrying to read in the proposition how diverse Norwegian training in municipalities is. Good language skills are, as you know, quite crucial, not least in the context of work, and it cannot be that some immigrants come out worse because they come to communities with poor training, whether where training is not a priority or where teachers do not have the necessary qualifications. It is therefore gratifying when the year's budget takes over and proposes 16 million. kr for quality-enhancing measures, inter alia. for Norwegian teachers for adult immigrants. So we know that we have special challenges when it comes to immigrant women's participation in the world of work, rather than in society. Many people have little education and relevant vocational training from their home country, and many are stuck in traditions that are not compatible with equality and the kind of life our society thinks should be a matter of course. It is of course an objective that we also want these to be part of the labour market and give them opportunities to participate in society in the same way as others. It is therefore gratifying that we find strengthening in the budget of Jobjesen Part A and improved free access to kindergarten and SFO. This is also important when it comes to children. Barnehage and SFO are both important for both Norwegian and language development in general. Good framework conditions for growth are an investment in the next generation of participation and opportunities. This is also the perspective of the increased allocation of urban area investment and the increase in grants for leisure card schemes, which is a good contribution for many of the immigrant youth population. Personally, I am also very pleased with the proposal for the budget of the Ministry of Culture of 5 million. kr for the inclusion of children and young people from low-income families into voluntary cultural life. Several places in the country we see fantastic activities and productions where Norwegian children and children with a migrant background meet the audience, where their own stories find their form. We know Color Games, the Cultural Heart and good examples from Oslo, like Nordic Black Theatre's youth activities. For me, these projects are at the heart of what integration work must be all about: forming something together with others, being seen in a positive way, networking and mastering experience. This costs a little and throws a lot of away. This year’s budget signals the willingness to make good progress in the process of integration. We're working towards clear political goals, and it's vital to succeed, because the height of the fall is high.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1605	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1610	The government wants to mobilise civil society more to improve the success of everyday integration. The government’s integration strategy, which was put forward in large words at the turn of the year, emphasises the need for more people to be better provided with formal education and qualification so that they can get to work and contribute to the needs of society for labour. We are eagerly waiting for an improved law of introduction, but I would still like to ask: what have you promoted in this budget that could lead to more municipalities being able to get more of the participants in the introduction programme to work?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1617	Getting to work is the whole backbone of understanding this budget. What we're doing is strengthening the different arrangements that help to get immigrants into work. It's about Jobjessen, both part A and part B, for example. Twenty-five million. kr to Jobjesen part B. There are important steps in primary school education for immigrants. And we are strengthening early career development. In short, there are a wide range of measures that need to be seen in the context and that strengthen the opportunities to get to work faster. Norwegian training is also a very important part of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1623	The centre party fully agrees that the settlement should be voluntary, and the settlement goes pretty well. Norwegian municipalities have done a great job. But we have a challenge that we've seen more examples of lately, and it's about families where you have one or more, kids or adults, with big health challenges. There is a great deal of understanding that municipalities are hesitating to accept a family where there are more with major health challenges, because they are then taking on a lasting cost. At the same time, we know that the proportion of resource-intensive services has increased, and that makes this even more complicated. We have made proposals, together with SV, that a system should be put in place that will permanently compensate for these large costs. It doesn't seem to be a majority for that. But if the right recognizes the problem, what does the right think about doing to get something done with this? These people will be in reception for months and years.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1628	I also note that the proposal to which the representative Mr Greni refers is only being welcomed by the Central Party and the SV. So even if the Labour Party is included in the comment, they are not included in the proposal. Well, that aside. This is a problem that affects relatively few people. As far as I know, there are 15 people we're talking about right now. The question is whether you change an entire scheme for such a small number. There is no doubt that it is a problem and a challenge, and I think the government also acknowledges that. As far as we know, work is being done on the underlying agencies to see if solutions can be found that can make housing easier for these people as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1635	The representative Thommess talked a lot about integration, and that's good. Here SV has a number of suggestions that are unfortunately not included, but the suggestions are very good. But there was very little of the internationally oriented Right we now heard – what could have helped defend the Children's Convention, international law and the European Convention on Human Rights. We have topical issues that really call on courageous politicians who can see, sail if there are few, that you have to do something. There are Norwegian children in the Al-Hol camp, there are unreturnable people in limbo in Norway, and there is a situation in Greece that calls for solidarity between European countries – not exploitation of the Dublin Convention, as Norway is currently doing. What is the reason why the Right is fully aligned with the Progress Party and does not see the importance of international cooperation around these important principles as well as enforcement in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1642	I fully agree that the situation we are in calls for attention to be given to working internationally and having an international system that – let's say – takes control. Maybe we have too little of that? Perhaps one of the weaknesses is that we do not actually have a voice at the table in the European Union? Too many of our policies are coordinated in a European context. I think that might also be a reflection of SV. If we had a voice there, we would have had a greater chance of having influence, even if the EU that is responsible for it. The representative raised more questions. Clearly, in a situation of 70 million refugees, we are being challenged – very sensitively – by balances in terms of how to deal with the situation. And we have a lot of simple examples that appeal a lot to the heart, but that might not be answered out completely in the system.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1649	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1654	One of the main tasks of the Progress Party in government work has been to control immigration policy, and there has been a lot of work done. We have implemented a wide range of measures that were previously only in our party programme, but which are now in force. Time and again, it appears that the policies of the Progress Party promote proposals and be ridiculed, are finally implemented and adopted by others. There will be very few asylum seekers because we have tightened up asylum policy, and that is good. Overall – if you take into account that we have a high number of quota refugees, and that is the total that counts – we have control over asylum seekers, quota refugees and family reunification of these now. There is low inflow – and lower than for a long time. We intend to continue that, to see in context the total number of asylum seekers, quota refugees and family reunifications that are coming, because it is important that we do not settle and accept more than it is possible to integrate. In Norway, we have led a tight line, as opposed to Sweden. Sweden has had a heart policy where it has said: Where it is heart space, it is home. It has been shown to be a dangerous development and to produce dangerous results. The situation in Sweden is being compared with war zones by many, and it is very much because of a headless immigration policy that has been pursued. That line is never going to be on the progression side. It is dangerous to pursue a headless immigration policy where control is lost. So to settle in Norway: we've said on the government platform that we're going to look at the number of quota refugees up against integration and what municipalities are facing challenges. It is important to keep up with developments. We see several municipalities reporting that the settlement of refugees has become one of the main welfare challenges for the municipality, and we will be aware of this in the future. Then I have to say something about the recent debate on unreturnable asylum seekers. I must say that I am amazed at the line of individual parties in this matter. We have a very good and legal system for asylum seekers in Norway. You first try your case, if you have a right to protection, and you get asylum if you have a right to protection. If you are not entitled to protection, you are given an assessment of whether you should be allowed to stay for humanitarian reasons, special human considerations. If you don't have it either, you usually get an obligation to leave the country. But there's also a security network here. What makes the safety net is that if you are really undetectable, you can't do anything for yourself that you can't return, and you've tried to work with the authorities – yes, you can get it up to date and stay on the basis of it. Then my big question is: what are the parties that are now calling for to soften the legislation, really trying to achieve? Then we're left with a group that either has countered the authorities, who don't have ID papers, maybe because they've hidden them, maybe because they've done criminal things in their home country. One is left with a group that would be very risky to grant more rights in Norway, for all who have reason to get our help, those who need rights in Norway, they will be caught up on the way forward. You're not left with a group that is involuntarily in limbo. Those who are in limbo in Norway have chosen the situation – as a general rule – entirely by themselves, and I do not understand why that time and time again are those who have chosen the situation themselves, who could choose to leave the country voluntarily, those who have no basis for protection, who will receive all the attention. It's at the expense of someone who really needs it. The day we have to give help and protection to so many of those who do not need protection, and those who do, we're going to have to cut off other welfare benefits, so I strongly advise against going into those proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1669	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1674	The Progress Party is mostly talking about immigration policy, and it must be legal, but it is almost impossible to know what kind of immigration policy the government stands for, because there are major disagreements. But I want to talk about integration policy – which the Progress Party almost never spends time on – which is also important for how we succeed in the Norwegian community and the welfare community. We know that to combat child poverty is the most important measure we can take, to make adult people a part of working life – both adults in the workplace. A major challenge in the fight against child poverty today and in the gender equality struggle is cash support. I cannot understand how the Progress Party continues to support under the cash support, which inhibits both integration, equality and the working line in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1679	There's probably some disagreement between the different parties in government, and that's because we're different parties. In the Workers' Party there are disagreements about immigration in the same party, and it is probably more problematic. But the issue of cash support is not difficult to explain. We have now introduced new housing requirements in order to receive cash support. Cash support applies to a small group of people. It's just for those with children between 1 and 2 years of age. The Committee on Immigration of the Party has also made new proposals to make cash support a way of motivating work and not keeping immigrants out of work, among others. that you are demanding that you have been working for the time before you receive the cash support, so that you earn that right. This will remove the situation where there may be a system that keeps them out of work.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1684	At this point, the policy of the Progress Party is as follows: When new refugees arrive in Norway, we will spend a great deal of time learning the Norwegian language, how the Norwegian working life is built up, giving them competence, and once five years have passed, it is good to receive cash support and not be part of the labour market, as we know is a major challenge. We should have spent that money on the line of work. But over to another area, which is also about integration policy: we must create common arenas where everyone meets, regardless of the background. It is known that the religious communities play an important role in the integration work. Then my question is to the Progress Party: Why have they not followed up the government's actual policy based on what the Workers' Party promoted in the Stortinget and got a majority for – that religious schools should be supervised in the religious communities? And why do they not support all religious communities in the integration work locally under an obligatory plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1691	That case is dealt with in Stortinget, so it is not decided in any way. Here we have an opportunity to influence further. Like the Workers' Party, the Progress Party believes that we need to go further in introducing supervisory opportunities at Quran schools and other types of religious communities for children, but from the Progress Party we want to go even further than the Workers' Party wants. The Workers' Party is limited to being able to cut the State aid if it were to find that something was unregulated or not according to how it wanted to be, but the State aid is not a good enough instrument here, because these religious communities usually have good money. In fact, you have to set a framework for what you can allow by, for example, the use of time in different religious communities, in order to ensure the right of children to self-appointed leisure. That's the kind of thing the Progress Party will try to get into a new belief and life view law.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1697	The government budgets for 3000 quota refugees. The centre party has said that Norway will receive at least 2,000 quota refugees, but we have the same sum in the budget line. That is, we leave to the High Commissioner to assess whether the sum of the last 1000 will be used for actions in the neighbourhood or for 1000 new quota refugees. What does the representative, Engen-Helgheim, think of such a proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1702	When I read that proposal, I had to rub my eyes. Then I had to read it a couple more, three more times, because in the last few years we've heard a central party saying that all power should be in this room, and I agree. One should not leave a single decision to any body other than Norway. When, in such a serious matter as how many quota refugees we are going to receive, the Senter Party wants to give that decision-making authority to the United Nations, I am very surprised. It's a first step to give away control over how many we're going to accept ourselves. I actually thought that the Center Party, with the rhetoric they've led, was able to take that decision entirely by itself and don't want the United Nations in order to govern anything of immigration policy. In fact, I think it was a really bad proposal, which shows that the Central Party does not know what to do in refugee policy, when we do not know how many refugees Norway should live.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1707	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1712	It is important that Norway has a clear practice in asylum matters. It will help to reduce the number of asylum seekers without a need for protection and to shorten the processing time. All applicants for asylum in Norway shall be safe and secure in order to ensure legal certainty. Work on integration must start already on arrival in Norway. Those who are granted a residence permit in Norway must move quickly and municipalities must have muscles and economies for safe integration. We live in a troubled world of high refugee numbers, and Norway should contribute in good tradition to improving a hopeless life situation for millions of refugees. At the same time, we must control our own borders and how many are coming to Norway if we are to ensure good integration. Those who come must want to be part of Norwegian society. The centre part will have a decentralised reception structure and give priority to residence, preferably outside press areas. Many municipalities have been committed to building up reception capacity through the establishment of a good professional environment around asylum recipients, and the Central Party believes in particular that it should be committed to maintaining agreements with municipalities and non-profit actors that have taken on reception operations. It is particularly important to maintain the competence of good performance municipalities. Then, of course, we agree that the capacity has to be adjusted according to the need. We have been following the establishment and development of the arrival centre at Rode for several years. Whether the centre will function as planned remains to be seen when it is put into normal operation. I hope the Stortinget will be well informed about the development and the experience and whether adjustments may be necessary. Several have pointed out that the situation needs to be better arranged for families with children, and I hope that the necessary steps are taken to ensure safe stay for everyone who is in the centre. The Norwegian housing model where municipalities receive refugees following local decisions, in which they are then allocated to ready-to-residence refugees, has proved to be successful and must be continued. The centre party indicates that the government and the IMDI have reduced the number of settlement municipalities and that it particularly affects smaller municipalities in the districts. We have protested against this priority and believe it is important to ensure scattered settlement and thus relieve municipalities that have integration challenges. Many small municipalities have done a very good integration work and have helped many refugees to get into work. The centre party is clear that the size of the municipality should not be decisive for allowing municipalities to settle refugees, but that the settlement should preferably take place in district municipalities which have shown good results in the integration into social and labour life. It is also important to provide predictable funding for the reception of refugees with additional needs, especially now that local authorities have increased their share of resource-intensive services. Therefore, we propose that changes to the integration system or the municipal income system should be made as soon as possible to compensate for this over time. Voluntary organisations play a key role in integration. Their activity promotes inclusion and integration, and they must be given good conditions. That is why we are very critical of the change proposed for funding volunteer centres. In its 2020 alternative budget, the Central Party has proposed 2 million. kr to the foundation of the Church's City Mission in Trondheim, more specifically the project Sister to the sister. They work against violence, sexual mutilation and various forms of coercion. This is done through a network of minority women working against various forms of violence. This has been a very great success, and this organisation should receive State aid so that they avoid the uncertainty they have with funding. The centre party believes that Norway should actively contribute to helping and improving a hopeless situation for people in need. Today's system is not fair to everyone, and not to those who need it the most. That is why we want to give priority to both quota refugees and aid in the neighbourhood. As I said before, we don't leave it to the United Nations, but we have a lower limit of 2,000 and an upper limit of 3,000, and then we leave it to the United Nations to assess where there is the greatest need for the sum that lies between them. Last week the debate has gone high on temporary work permits for irreversibles. We can't go for a general work permit, it's completely out of date, but we think there's a lack of facts and knowledge about this, and we therefore ask the government to go through this group and see if it can be relevant with differentiation and look at opportunities for, for example. stateless. I'd like to take up the proposals of the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1740	The representative Heidi Greni has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1745	I want to pick up the thread where Greni dropped it in the string shift with Engen-Helgheim, regarding this proposal on the UN. Like Engen-Helgheim, I might also have to rub myself a little in the eyes when I got to see it, because, we're going to say, give up the power in such a big question was a little unfamiliar from the Center Party team, but also, in our opinion, very unwise. There's no particular doubt about what the answer is going to be, because with the number of refugees we're operating on, and the signals that have come from the UN High Commissioner, there's every reason to believe that we're going to be asked to receive more quota refugees. The question then is: does the Central Party not only want to give up power over how many we will get, but also about who will come? Because it's also a pretty important question about the answer to that? [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1752	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1757	This is by no means giving up power. We're saying at least 2,000, maximum 3,000, which is the same level as the government. This will mean that if the High Commissioner believes that quota refugees are more important than assistance in the neighbourhood, we are involved in the government's proposals. We don't give up power in any way, but the High Commissioner has also been very clear that there is an enormous need for help in the neighbourhoods. The Committee itself has been visiting there and seeing the situation, and it is the United Nations that sits on the up-to-date knowledge of where it is most precarious. So we're not giving up power in any way, we're setting a lower limit of 2,000 and a upper limit of 3,000, and that's the frame.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1762	Yesterday we could read in the media that the Center Party opened to relax on the legislation around so-called unresectable asylum seekers. That's how this code is worked on and designed for many years, with a lot of experience, so you know – at least you should know – how this turns out, who is hit by the different regulations, and what security networks you actually have today. I tried in my post to explain a little about the security network you have, and I cannot understand what the Center Party believes is missing there. So I registered that the Center Party says they don't know enough about the legislation to know what they might be promoting. Then I wonder, what is the Centre's lack of knowledge in order to make a decision considering whether they want to grant labour rights to illegal immigrants?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1769	The centre party does not wish to grant labour rights to illegal immigrants and will not vote in favour of that proposal. But the challenge is that this group is not a homogeneous group. There are people who are stateless and who cannot return voluntarily, because they have no country to return to. There are others who may be here because they have failed to make their identity visible. So we don't know who this group is, and we want to know more about it. But a general work permit for those who have not been allowed to stay is completely out of date for the Centre Party, because it is clear that if you get the same rights if you are denied the right to stay, it is a great threat to the institution of asylum. We want the government to go through this group now and see if there's anyone there who, regardless of whether they do everything they can to return, doesn't have the opportunity. Then we have to look at some solutions for those cases. The current derogation has only been applied to approx. one person per year, so that it is not particularly operational. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1774	Then you're out of time.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1780	It is only then to note that the representative Per Olaf Lundtegen, who was out there and promised that the Centre Party would support temporary work permits when Arne Viste was sentenced to prison for employing people in limbo, has been thoroughly defeated in the Central Party. The representative now shows how this legal paragraph has been used until today. Since 2007, at least according to the information we received from UNE when we asked them directly, it has been under 10 permits since 2007, for people who are in a completely impossible situation, who must be here and who are not allowed to work legally. I then very much wonder why the Central Party cannot vote for the SV's proposal, which has now been amended, so that it says that they can be given a work permit, namely a delimitation, so that it does not apply to everyone, but to those who cannot actually be returned, and who are not responsible for that. [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1787	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1792	The centre party is very clear that those who have been rejected are initially going out or being returned. The group we're talking about here is not a uniform group. There are many different cases in this group. There are, among other things: the stateless, who may not be able to return. Even if they get help to get out voluntarily, they have no country to travel to. It's a group that's in a very special position. Then there's the other one here that has chosen not to go back voluntarily, and that's in a completely different position. So we'll in no way be in favour of a general proposal where everyone gets a work permit. But we think it's time for the government to go into these different cases, look at what's the challenge, look at whether it's -- and we don't foreshadow the outcome of it -- some groups here that we might want to look at a little differently, and if that derogation is being exploited today as it should be.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1797	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1802	The possibility of moving across borders is a fundamental liberal value. Immigration stimulates us socially, culturally and economically, and it makes society richer and more diverse. At the same time, immigration puts society and the welfare state to the test, and different immigrant groups bring with them different challenges and obligations. The characteristic of a successful immigration policy is that we are able to integrate new people into society, and that everyone who comes here becomes active participants in society, with both rights and obligations. Therefore, the Left is very pleased that one of the government's main projects is to implement an integration promise. The aim of the integration strategy presented in the autumn of 2018 is for more immigrants to come to work and to support themselves and their families. Among the key actions in the State budget for 2020 for the completion of education and job creation is the strengthening of Jobjesen, among others. targeting women with a migrant background, and providing young people with a better opportunity to complete and pass on secondary education, inter alia. through measures such as: combination classes, which are a very exciting measure. In particular, we focus on enhanced skills in Norwegian training through further training of those who work there. Another important measure in this year’s budget is free core time in kindergartens for one-year-olds in asylum receptions and full-time facilities for two- and three-year-olds. Children in reception are among the most vulnerable in society, and kindergarten is important to provide them with security and normality, socialisation and learning. I'm also proud that we've managed to continue a record high number of quota refugees, with 3,000 next year as well. It is gratifying to note that there now appears to be a broad consensus on this policy, and that for example. The working party, which, while they were in government, accepted approx. 1 000 a year, now turned completely into this policy. At a time when the debate on immigration is largely about tightening up, I am proud of what the Left and the Christian People's Party have achieved, both in terms of quota refugees and in terms of long-term asylum children. Recently, very many people have been affected by the history of 55-year-old Lula who have been in Norway for nearly 19 years. She was deprived of her tax card after a rule change in 2011. Until then, many of those who stayed in Norway, which was so-called irreversible, were given the opportunity to work and pay taxes. That possibility took away the red-green ones. Nevertheless, Lula kept her job at Gunnar Stålsett, who now risks punishment for having given her the opportunity to keep her living. In the left, we are crystal clear that the situation of long-term, irreversible asylum seekers needs to find a solution. The best thing would have been if we could make sure that everyone who doesn't have the opportunity to return to their home country, the opportunity to earn a living. It's good for the individual, and it's also good for us as a society. This applies, inter alia, to: stateless, as many have pointed out in the debate, who have no home country to return to. At some point, when there has been a long time to go without the Norwegian authorities or the asylum seeker himself having managed to allow a return, a line must be set so that people do not live their whole lives on hold. It is no secret that the Left believes that the policy towards unreturnable, supported by a broad majority of the Storting today, is flawed. At the same time, we are pleased that we, together with the Christian People's Party, got a pass on the government platform for a one-off solution for some of those who have been here the longest. We very much appreciate that the work on this is now intensifying in government. We will continue to work to ensure that as many as possible of the long-term insurmountable refugees are given permanent residence in Norway. We're talking about people who've been waiting for years. At the same time, they have not been able to use the waiting time for meaningful work, which could be the best for them and also for Norway. Instead, we get situations where people who want to give them work, such as Gunnar Stålsett and Arne Wise, people who give them little hope in hopelessness, are made criminal waitresses. The left has received many requests from long-standing unresectable asylum seekers who tell of a life in limbo, without the possibility of depending on themselves and much less on their families. By not giving them this opportunity, we keep people down. We're talking about children who can never be with friends in activities, or adults who don't have the opportunity to feel useful or participate in a community. Pending long-term unresectable asylum seekers to stay permanently, it is necessary to facilitate their entry into work and entry into a somewhat more orderly situation. It's about human dignity and how to treat people.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1821	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1826	First, I think it's important that big business representatives actually say what's right. It was not the case that there was a change in the rules in 2011. It was about the Tax Directorate continuing to distribute tax cards to people who weren't allowed to work, so it got worse. It was about routines. So over to my question. Often it is that the Left is most concerned about debating with the Labour Party. But today the representative has heard what Jon Engen-Helgheim has said, and then I want to ask if the Left agrees with him.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1833	Now, like the representative, Mr. Engen-Helgheim, like the representative, Mr. Gharahkhani, he had a pretty long story with a lot of moments. Some of those moments we agreed, some of those moments we disagreed with. The same applies to Gharakhani's posts. As I also said in my post, there is no secret that the lines of immigration and asylum policy may go along some other axes than the traditional right-left dividing lines, and I think the gap is as large on the red-green side as it is on the civil side. However, I believe it is right for the Left to sit in government and participate in negotiations and get good solutions, instead of doing such things as for example. SV did when they took hers in the asylum policy and actually ignored all possible influence. I believe that only what we have done for the long-term asylum children, for example, makes it worth it, and I believe what we are now getting for quota refugees, makes many more than a thousand people get help. It makes it worth it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1838	Either I'm terribly thin, or it's quite demanding to get a grip on what the government's policy really is in this area, because here we get completely contradictory signals. The representative is talking about an amnesty for some groups. I hope she can clarify what the government has agreed on there, and what kind of groups will get amnesty when they have received a rejection. It's interesting if the Progress Party thinks it makes more sense than our proposal. Then a proposal for a temporary work permit has been made to all, and we in the Central Party have made a proposal asking the government to go through this ban, the consequences, and to see if there can be a differentiation here that would allow us to solve the challenges for those who are really completely irretrievable, even if they will return voluntarily. Could the representative clarify a little about the amnesty proposal she presented and say whether she can support the proposal of the Central Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1843	Thanks for the question, it's very nice to get ready. In my post, it was about the point that is in the Granavolden Declaration where you say that you should facilitate a one-off solution for people who have been here for over 16 years. That's what I use the word "amnesty" over, because the word "amnesty" is often used about what is a one-time solution instead of a permanent, permanent system.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1848	I'll start with a little quote from the NRK on December 1st. Abid Q. Raja says in a comment about unresectable asylum seekers that they ‘which is located in Norway shall be able to take up work’. It is better that they feed on paid work’. [[...]] The representative Melby has expressed similar things. SV is very happy for this support, and I am absolutely sure that the unrecoverables are also very happy for this support. So now I would very much like to hear it clearly from the representative, Mr Melby, because this support is, of course, a direct support for proposal No. 15 to be discussed today: the Left will vote in favour of proposal No. 15 who are being treated today, as Abid Q. Raja and Guri Melby themselves have argued for is the right solution?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1859	Thank you for the question. There is no doubt about what is the primary policy of the Left in this matter. We have said that many times, even in a longer speech by the parliamentary leader, Terje Breivik, in October, in which we gave our support to Mr Arne Viste, who is also one of those who have been employed in a way that is irreversible and that calls for a solution for these people. At the same time, I believe that we are done more by being part of the government, by seeking power and by taking responsibility than by, for example, taking responsibility. to stand outside and take hers and say that we are not in any of the government's business. This means that there are now many more long-term asylum children who are allowed to stay in Norway. That means that we accept three times as many quota refugees as when SV joined the government, and that also means that we now have an opportunity to work into the government and influence and make sure that we get a solution for more undetectable. Of course, I wish we had managed to draw the policy even further. I work for that every day, and I hope that SV will support the Left in.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1866	Then the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1871	Immigration and integration policies seem to act as an important venue for identifying values and political identity. All parties claim to be in favour of a fair and humane policy. Some point out that they are liberal, while for others it is equally important to stress that they are strict. In asylum and refugee policy, we may feel that we are miles apart, but we have quite a broad political consensus that it is most important in integration policy to encourage those who come to Norway to learn the language quickly and get into education and work, so that they can support themselves and their own. If we want a good immigration and integration policy, we must start with the words we use, which leads to the actions we do. What matters cost, we get to know through the budgetary position presented in the Committee today, but the importance of the words we use, for example. in comments, in debates, in comments, must not be underestimated. The debate today is of course about money, but it is also about people. If we want to integrate, we have to include. It's no surprise that the Christian People's Party is talking about human dignity and man's intrinsic value, to which they've got the power of just being. This is also the basis for our immigration and integration policies, and it must also be the basis for how we choose to communicate. Retoric is also a policy. There are good measures that are established in this government and that are lifted in the government platform, but in this area we have – no matter how good the measures are – related comments that degrade and reduce human worth, in order to achieve our own policy objectives. The Christian People's Party believes that immigrants in Norway should be seen, respected and included in society in every way. This also applies, in particular, to the most innocent and invisible among us, those who do not have rights, those who walk around as shadows this year after year because they are undetectable, either as paperless or as stateless. It is estimated that there are about 3,000 people who have been deprived of both fundamental human rights and dignity. They're striped for all the things we've taken for granted. They have nothing, and someone says they're nothing. We in the Christian People's Party say they're all. We say that they are the very symbol of the human world. The Christian People's Party has not awakened an inch from our primary position. We believe that people with a final refusal who, for various reasons, cannot be returned due to a lack of a return agreement must receive a work permit. We did not get this through on the Granavolden platform, but we got a point that older people would stay and be allowed to work for long periods of time. I assume that today the Minister of Justice is going to the pulpit and confirming that what was said in the Granavolden Declaration is to be presented to the Grand Duchy as soon as possible. We expect action from our own government, and we expect a change in the harsh rhetoric of public vocabulary. In order to reduce the harsh rhetoric in the public debate, we must start here at Stortinget. And it must be said that I am particularly responding to the Minister of Justice's statement to the VG: ‘I expect no one to want the home help that comes to you to have a background as a war criminal. Or that people working in kindergarten have unknown background that convicted pedophiles in their home country.’ Hard rhetoric hurts more than the sender often understands. Responsible people and people in power positions must choose their words carefully and remember that harsh words can inspire action. During flight, immigration and integration into a new and unknown society, there is a process in which both immigrants and we as a large-scale society have a great responsibility. For the Christian People's Party, this means that both the public and the business world, the non-profit sector and we as fellow humans must contribute an inclusive language. Many immigrants bring with them is an enrichment for Norway. The Christian People's Party believes that a general objective of both immigration and integration policy must be that immigrants who come to Norway to stay here or who end up not being able to return experience respect and as part of the community, with the duties and rights of other residents in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1901	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1906	I must be allowed to say that I now heard a rather strong article. I am very pleased that the Christian People's Party is so clear in a field that is so important to them, and I heard the representative say that you do not fold an inch. At the same time, I have heard the representative of Engen-Helgheim today explain that the government has now been given control of immigration policy at the premises of the Progress Party. Then the question becomes quite obvious, when the representative Bransdal is part of the government's parliamentary basis: is the Christian People's Party behind government policy in the field, or will the representative do as she did in the previous debate, as it was about tax offices and their centralisation, and take away from government policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1911	The Christian People's Party is standing on the platform that was negotiated on Granavolden – the government platform – and that was the point I used today to point out our case. No, we don't want to fold an inch, even with the government we're in. We don't fold an inch on our primary positions. I must also note – and I am looking at the parties at Stortinget – that there is not so much hope of gaining dominance for our policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1916	We don't fold an inch, said the representative in the post. Still, I'm almost the same way. Will the Christian People's Party vote for proposal No. 17, from SV? They will vote in favour of proposal No. 31 from us? Or are they going to fold and not vote for any of them? So it was about older, unresectable people who were going to have amnesty and – as I understood it – a residence permit. Can the representative say anything about how large a group there is – how many of the 3,000 this is about? And when can we expect to get a case to the Stortinget on amnesty for this group?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1923	To the last one, there was a strong call for the Minister of Justice to return to Stortinget as soon as possible on the basis of that point in the Granavolden Declaration. No, we don't know exactly how large the group is. It's estimated some numbers, but it could also be darkness there, because it's not sure we've known the address of all of these. No, we are not going to vote in favour of the proposal of the Central Party. It's an investigation proposal. SV's proposal would have liked to have voted in favour if I had followed my primary position, but we stand in a context and believe that we get the most insight into the angle we have on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1928	I'll again start by reading a little quote. It is Kjell Ingolf Ropstad who says the following to NRK on 1 December: ‘KrF is concerned with the people we cannot return, who are in limbo and who cannot do anything else, they should be given jobs.’ Thank you very much for the tremendous support from the leader of the Christian People's Party for our proposal that unresectable asylum seekers should be able to work! In the same way as in my question to the Left in place: can we now get a clear confirmation from the Christian People's Party that they will support the proposal we have made, precisely because the Christian People's Party leader has been so clear in the media and said that he agrees with this? Or is it that the Christian People's Party is running the same kind of double game as the Left in this case – says one thing outwards and another thing when they're going to vote in the hall?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1940	The Christian People's Party is concerned with real politics, not symbolism. To vote in favour of the SV's proposal today – it would be voted down even if the Christian People's Party voted for it. That's why I was so clear in my post now – I'm trying with small steps to move this in the right direction. By voting in favour of SV's proposal today – I am very sorry, because I would like to do so – we had not achieved anything.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1946	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1951	One of the main government projects is to implement an integration promise. The aim is for immigrants to participate more fully in working and social life. Immigrants need to get to work so that they can support themselves and their own lives and contribute to the creation of value in society. We have just been consulted on proposals for a new law of integration. It is the biggest change in Norwegian integration policy since 2003 when the right and obligation to participate in the introduction programme was introduced. In 2019, once again, a civil government is implementing an important reform to strengthen integration. The new law will ensure better Norwegian training, that more people are formally qualified and that even more people are coming to work. This is fully in line with the government's integration strategy, and it is in line with the future needs of the labour market. More and more formal competence is required. Then we must also ensure that immigrants who come to Norway are given the opportunity to acquire the skills needed in the labour market. In the 2020 budget, the Government proposes more concrete measures to ensure that more people complete and pass education and get to work. We're proposing to strengthen Jobjeansen Part B by $25 million. kr. The funds shall contribute to providing young people with a weak professional base, such as poor Norwegian skills, with more basic training and better prerequisites for completing and passing secondary school. Such offers are now available throughout the country, and many have chosen to set up so-called combination classes. In 2018, 1,222 students received an offer through this scheme. By 2020, there is a basis for offering some 3000 students. We also strengthen the job opportunities of Part A, so that even more domestic immigrant women can get basic qualifications and get to work. In addition, we set aside money to renew and improve Norwegian training for adult immigrants. The funds are intended to strengthen the competence of teachers in Norwegian training and mean that about 200 teachers can receive further training in Norwegian as a second language. The Government proposes to establish a new vocational and vocational vocational training scheme for adult immigrants. Immigrants in adults need a different type of training organisation than other adults, for example: offer of full-time and additional language and learning support. The grant scheme shall be aimed at the establishment and implementation of such organised offers in the counties. And last but not least, the work against negative social control is stepped up further, because everyone has the right to live a free life. In 2020, 51 minority advisors will be available to provide advice and help to students with a migrant background on challenges of negative social control. In addition, we strengthen the housing and support provision and the mentoring system for people under negative social control. The gain of better integration is great. People who come to Norway can quickly become part of the community and create a good life in their new home country. We need immigrants' contributions in working life and in the local environments to take care of the welfare society we all appreciate. It facilitates this budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1974	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1979	On March 8th this year, the President-in-Office said that we are completely dependent on the efforts of volunteers, such as the women who are engaged in urban mothers. Urban mothers reach women who are somehow marginalised and often isolated. By getting in touch with them when city mothers whole families and helping many children and young people in parts of Oslo change their growing-up conditions. The message for City Mothers is simple: to grow up and become active, democratic participants, we must be participants ourselves. In recent years city mothers have told about municipalities that contact them to start up urban mothers locally around the country. In the last few years, we have also given city councillors money through our alternative state budget, so that they can establish themselves in several municipalities. Why does the government refuse to support the valuable work of urban mothers on the state side?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1986	The representative raises a very important question: how do we achieve good everyday integration? Urban mothers, together with many other non-governmental organisations, contribute to everyday integration. I myself have had the pleasure of meeting them, but also very many others. Unfortunately, it's not that we over the state budget can designate grants to all organisations that do an important job. But that doesn't mean they're doing a less good job for that reason. We have application-based schemes, and not least this is a responsibility for the municipalities. I believe it is important that municipalities like Oslo, but also others, contribute to supporting the volunteering and examples of urban mothers, which contribute positively to everyday integration.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1993	Too few of the participants in the introduction program go to work after the program has finished. We also hear the government be concerned about the results and how they will be better. So how does the government in next year's budget ensure that those leaving the introduction programme in 2020 are more likely to get to work in the municipality where they live?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e1998	The first major reform of integration policy was implemented when Erna Solberg was the municipal minister in 2003. Now I am implementing the second major reform of integration policy in 2019. These reforms are being implemented by civil governments. We do this in general by starting Norwegian training at receptions, by providing opportunities for both career screening and pre-housing skills, so that we can live where we can best match the individual’s skills. Then we add up to an integration contract to be concluded in the municipality, because integration is two-way, with obligations on both sides, and we are now reforming the entire introduction program. It's not done in a year, but we're starting this work now, for example. by strengthening Norwegian training. And I'm absolutely sure we agree that it's important to know Norwegian well, both to get out of work and to become a part of the community.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2003	In recent years it has no longer been the case that all municipalities have been asked to settle. Part of the smallest municipalities that have shown very good success in terms of integration, 100 pst. in education or work, they have been refused to live, despite their own desire. Now there's an overall committee that says the following: ‘The Committee refers to the quality of the settlement and integration work carried out by municipalities, and not the size or centrality of the municipalities, which determine which municipalities are allowed to settle refugees.’ I expect the Council of State to follow up on this. When can we expect all municipalities to be asked to settle, and that this difference between small and large municipalities will cease? If the municipality is successful, we hope this starts quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2013	I am very pleased that the committee agrees with the government. This was done last year. We have also reformed the settlement policy. One element is that we don't live in urban areas or municipalities that have over 30 pst. immigrants. So it's not the size that matters when it comes to good integration policy. That is why we say that the emphasis should be on the competence, quality and results of the integration policy in the municipality. That's what we put the most emphasis on, and it's helped to make more small municipalities now settle for more. But now, once again, the Centre Party is proposing an even tighter immigration policy than today's government, by reducing the number of quota refugees. That means that with the policy of the Center Party, fewer people would be able to settle, both in small and large municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2020	It is a little strange to hear the Council of State stand and say that language training has been strengthened when this government cut language training at reception – with quite a few hours as well, so that it started later. But speaking now, the Council of State is talking well about integration, and I am pleased about that. SV promotes quite a number of suggestions in this setting – and we have done so before – in order to strengthen the rights to complete, among others. competence of the introduction system. There we have a lot of research, among other things. The case that has evaluated the introduction system, and we have now received a national audit report that is quite critical of what has been done. I'm going to ask the Council of State why he's against us letting people complete competence in the introduction system. Because we know that what can get people to work is that you close the gap between what people can do and what they need in the workplace, that is, that there is an employer who needs the skills that people have.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2027	Let me first say that I am pleased with the broad upswing that is now about the integration policy of the bourgeois government. It was a civil government that carried out the first reform, and it is a civil government that is now implementing the second reform. And we strengthen Norwegian training, both in reception and in residence, through the introduction program. We do what we do in school for the rest: we strengthen teachers' skills and further education in Norwegian. This reform of the introduction programme will involve more formal competence. This means that someone can get up to four to five years of introduction. The point of that is to start education, both primary and secondary, and not least to have the opportunity to take a professional letter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2035	The difference is that SV believes that this should be a right, so that people are safe about it. It is also true that if the municipalities are now to be able to differentiate the introduction programmes more according to the kind of competence hopefully mapped, you cannot run it in one class. It's going to cost more, but until that, the government hasn't put money on the table. How does the Council of State think it should be different? Does it mean that this should be carried out in the same class, as before? In addition, there is a scheme called Jobjeansen, which is one of the schemes that has been evaluated and that has proved to be good. But what the government has done there is that it has thrown out of the scheme the women who have been on social assistance. It may be those who are most remote from the labour market and who really need such a low-threshold offer in order to get into the Norwegian society and into the labour market. What is the reason why the government believes that these women do not need Job? Because they don't get any other offer in the social office.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2040	Yes, they can get an offer through Nav. Then we will also implement a change that means that if there is a lack of Norwegian knowledge that is the basis for social assistance, you should return to offer Norwegian education as a basis for getting into work. It is not right that this government has weakened Jobjessen. On the contrary, it will strengthen the job balance, not least the one that applies to domestic women, which I believe is the furthest away from working life. And it's been a very successful arrangement. We also strengthen Jobjessen Part B with so-called combination classes, and provide a basis for 3,000 young people to be able to get into a combination class and receive basic training before they go on. It is not often I quote the representative Gharakhani from the Workers' Party, but he said something reasonable in his post, among others. that it is not money that is at stake in integration policy. It's about reforming the things that don't work. That's what this government has come to grips with, and we're implementing.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2049	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2054	There will still be few asylum seekers in Norway. In the first ten months of 2019, there have been fewer than 2 000 asylum seekers. Over the last four years, there have been about 12 000 asylum seekers, of whom 1,500 have been relocated from the EU, and 400 are single minors who have been retreated. Fewer asylum seekers over a four-year period have we not had since the 1990s, and fewer people coming than in 2019, we have probably not had since the early 1980s. It's good that it's getting less, because it allows us to prioritize other types of problems, which we're also going to come back to a little bit. But it is not true, as the Labour Party says, that it is only because of European policies, because Europe has not had an equally significant decline in the number of asylum seekers that Norway has had – in close proximity. Few asylum seekers also contribute to reducing the need for asylum recipients, and from the beginning of 2019 until the end of October, the number of asylum recipients has been reduced from 3,700 to 2,800. Or to put it in a slightly wider perspective: from 2016 it has been reduced from 30,000 to 2,800 now. At the end of 2020, it is estimated that there will be about 2000 residents on reception. Reductions in the reception population alone will lead to a reduction in the cost of accommodation for asylum seekers, but are also a challenge against the fact that we have to reduce the number of receptions. This is well reflected in this draft budget. It is also important in the future to pursue an asylum policy that will minimise the number of asylum seekers without a need for protection. This allows resources to be used for persons with a real need for protection. In view of the low number of asylum seekers and the expected decline in family immigration, the government proposes to accept 3 000 transfer refugees for 2020, in line with the Granavolden Declaration. It is important to stress that the government has a humanitarian response to the fact that there will be fewer asylum seekers in Norway. By accepting several transfer refugees, Norway is now at the very top of the countries receiving most of the transfer refugees per capita. We've seen major challenges in Libya, some people think it's best to be able to accept some kind of boat with people from Libya, while what we want to support is a UN program that evacuates those who really need protection to Rwanda. In Libya, there are about 700,000 migrants, but it's only, according to the IOM, between 10,000 and 20,000 of them that are what we call Convention refugees, and then it's important that we set up. Therefore, in the next outreach in 2020, we will give priority to Libyan withdrawals through Rwanda and Romania, with an average of about half of the total. 800 quota refugees. There are also many other things that happen within this field. It shall include, inter alia: new border control systems are being implemented in Schengen. The new systems will contribute to more effective external border control and provide a better overview of who is in Norway and Schengen at all times. Through its Schengen membership, Norway is obliged to implement these new systems, and the government is therefore proposing to allocate a total of 22.6 million. SEK including 13 million. SEK to the UDI budget and 9.6 million. to the budget of the Directorate of Police. Furthermore, in line with Granavolden, the government has proposed to reduce the fee by 25 pst. for family reunification for persons with a refugee background until they have been granted permanent residence. This means that the fee will be reduced from today's rate of NOK 10 500 to NOK 7 800, and it will come into force in the spring of 2020. One of the objectives of the government is to have rapid returns of persons who do not have a residence permit. This is a prerequisite for us to succeed in getting people to Norway who do not want to claim asylum. Norway has been quite a leader in the return work. Other countries now often look at Norway, how we have clearly returned. We have a combination of that we have a rudimentary arrangement for those who want to withdraw voluntarily through the assisted return, and that we are consistent with those who do not withdraw voluntarily.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2075	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2080	People who are denied their asylum application and thus do not have the right to protection shall be returned to their home Member State. They're going to do it on a voluntary basis, and most people can do it. Although Norway cannot return them by force, it does not mean that they cannot return themselves. That principle has to be established. Then there are people who have been denied and have cooperated fully on return and identity, but who still cannot be returned because of obstacles beyond their control. Do these people today’s rules exist so that they do not remain in an eternal limbo?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2087	I am very pleased with the question and very much agree with the premise from the questioner that they have the opportunity to return themselves. What he asks questions about here is the foreign regulations § 8-7. It provides an opportunity for people who are irretrievable, when there is no doubt about their identity and they themselves have helped to make returns possible, to obtain a work permit. There are several persons who have received a work permit and a residence permit in accordance with that provision of the foreign regulations.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2092	I thank you for your answer. I am quite sure that the vast majority of the Norwegian people agree that we must have an effective return policy, where those who do not have the right to protection must leave the country. It is about the legitimacy of the whole institution of asylum and justice for those who really need protection. But I am also sure that many people believe that in the case of people who are going to return and cooperate fully on the ID, documentation and the return process itself, but where it is not possible to return, it is unfortunate both for Norway and for them that they are going free and cannot support themselves. Then I choose to ask the question one more time to assure me: can the Council of State assure us that those who have proved that they can do everything they can to return to their country of origin, but where it is still not possible, can they stay?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2099	Now it is not that I can stand and process these matters over the table. But there is an occasion for this in the foreign policy, and I know that it has been given a stay after the foreign policy. I also agree with the representative that it is important to return, and therefore the government started in 2013 – after we got into the government – with large-scale return work because it had been neglected for many years. We have returned over 40,000 foreigners, 15 000 of whom have been convicted. That was necessary, because a lot of people came after the previous government that didn't have a right to stay in Norway because they didn't meet the terms of the Convention refugee. Therefore, it was important to address that issue and ensure that we had a more effective return policy in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2106	After being strongly criticised by the representative of the Central Party for a review of who this group is, and an assessment of a differentiation – which was called irresponsible and completely out of date – it must be allowed to be a little surprised when the Christian People's Party and the Left now say that an amnesty should be immediately introduced for part of this group. Then I have a lot of questions. Who does it apply to breast-feeding? How many do you estimate? Is this 10,000, 100,000? Would there be a requirement for ID clearance for the group to receive amnesty? I refer to the Council of State Media Opinions on having criminals as laundry assistants etc. And when can we expect this proposal to come?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2111	I think it is important that we distinguish little between a residence permit and getting a work permit. If you're going to get a work permit, you're going to have to be sure of the identity. That's pretty important. If not, we can have a situation in professions where you have a requirement for a certificate of good conduct, such as: working in kindergartens, where you can only check the certificate of good conduct while the person has been in Norway. There is no way to check the person’s certificate of good conduct before arriving in Norway. When we don't know the identity, you can actually get a system where a convicted pedophile abroad can end up working in kindergarten in Norway. That's exactly why it's so important to know the identity. That's what's the big difference to what the Center Party is proposing. There's nothing on ID clearance. It only says that you want to look at the possibility of granting work permits to those who have been unresectable asylum seekers. I think we're against that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2117	The center party takes it as a matter of course that the government takes such in when we ask for a review of this group. So, I actually had confidence in the Council of State. I'm similarly the more we discuss this. First of all, I did not get an answer as to how many this is estimated to apply, and secondly, I now perceived the council so that this group would receive a residence permit, but they will not receive a work permit. So they should still be in limbo without the opportunity to work, but they should have a legal stay in Norway. I would very much ask you to clarify what is really the government's policy in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2122	What's on the Granavolden platform is getting a residence permit. This applies to older unreturnables who have been in Norway for at least 16 years. This is a point where you wanted to make your situation easier. So if you've been given a probability of identity, you're also going to get a work permit. But with regard to the proposal that comes from the Central Party, it's a little bit different. If they thought that there should be a requirement for identity, as in the proposal of the Workers' Party, we are really not so far away from the foreign regulations § 87 today, where there is such a lack of access to grant a residence permit to those who are completely irreversible and who have made it possible to return themselves, but where we also know their identity.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2129	I have to say I am quite horrified that the Council of State is now standing and suspecting all the people in limbo as if they were sexual offenders. I think it's incredibly dry. I must say that I was seriously pushed into the chair when the Council of State was in the media and said that Steelset had to be prosecuted. Governments are not to decide who is to be prosecuted. I want to remind the Council of State that last year there were 55,448 criminal cases, of which 3,337 with a known perpetrator. There were winning crimes, it was violence, it was drugs, it was economics, and they weren't prosecuted. Then I'd like to ask the Council of State to explain what is so harmful about someone who doesn't have a needle in the wall, being allowed to take care of water, that someone doesn't take advantage of it, but gives them the opportunity to do it over winning crimes and violence. Does the Council of State really think that it is more harmful to society?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2134	I'm a little surprised that there's at all a question to a Minister of Justice who makes it clear that he's not going to interfere in a criminal case. What I said was that Steelset must be prosecuted in the same way as everyone else – that is, that there should be equal treatment for those in Norway. We're not going to make a difference between King Solomon and Jørgen hatmaker. I expect Andersen's representative to agree. Whether such a case is to be prioritised within the police and prosecution, it is up to the prosecution authority to decide, and the prosecution authority is independent. It was confirmed in this room at the latest last month.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2141	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2146	It is vital for our welfare state that more people should manage themselves. Working for all is priority No. one for the Workers' Party. The key to integration is work, and the path to work is through education and qualification. The introduction programme needs to be more work-oriented. The programme must lead to more real qualification and be more individualised, so that we get less variation in the results between municipalities. For many people there are different reasons and different periods outside the labour market. The aim must be that this period should be kept as short as possible, and that all efforts should be made to provide people with skills that qualify for work. In our alternative state budget for 2020, we are promoting proposals for a comprehensive competence reform – yes, a competence billion. In a labour market requiring more formal competence, labour market policies need to be strengthened and measures more focused on training and real qualification leading to a solid footing in the labour market. Education needs to be more widely used as labour market measures. We want to organise courses where wage subsidies are combined with professional letters and permanent employment in the future, in close cooperation with the social partners. The proportion of young people who are not at work is high, and the number of young people who are not at work is increasing dramatically. The work clearance system is not working well enough, and for many who have some work skills, 100 pst will still be. completed. The lack of completion of secondary education is also an important part of the issue. That is why the Labour Party prioritises 100 million. kr. in addition to the government budget for municipal migration measures. The Workers' Party will strengthen its 20 million language practice sites. kr. The Labour Party will increase the incentives for more labour-oriented Norwegian, labour Norwegian and industry Norwegian by 20 million. kr. Furthermore, we propose to strengthen the job opportunities of Part C, which is a multi-annual intro for them with a need for longer qualification courses, by 10 million. kr. in addition to the Government's proposals. Not least, we're strengthening Jobjeansen Part A, which is measures directed at domestic women, by 50 million. kr. Work is the key for everyone to live a free, independent life, where we can make choices without being dependent on others. Many of the challenges we face in the debate on integration relate to many of the important freedom and equality struggles in our society, namely the freedom to live their lives differently. Many in the immigrant community face great social and cultural pressures when it comes to choosing how to live their own lives. Social control and physical and mental honours have no place in our society. Combating social control is a common responsibility. Everyone shall have the freedom to be himself, to participate and to break if they experience limitations in their freedom. There is a need to strengthen the competence for social control in public, business, civil society and community. Child protection must be present and build confidence in the population on these issues. Education is the best way to change unwanted social structures and ensure the independence of individuals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2159	Immigration can be a demanding field, which is what we are talking about here today. The government was really tested in 2015. The past has shown that the immigration policy of the government is strong; it works. It has worked systematically and purposefully with both short-term and long-term mitigation measures that have been absolutely necessary. It is also gratifying to see that the government has hit its policy so well that much of the opposition has also ended up on the government's side when it comes to both immigration and integration. The world is troubled and unstable. The number of refugees is high, and Norway, as a nation, has been very well measured per capita in relation to many other European countries. In many ways, we do not have much to be ashamed of when it comes to refugee and asylum policy. The number of asylum seekers, quota refugees and family members who come here today is under such control as it is possible to expect from a government. But this can change quickly by conditions that the government cannot affect. It's important for a small nation like Norway to have this under control. In the government platform, there are several good measures that the government is working on. We have been within one of the measures here today, which apply to the elderly, with which the government continues to work. Right-wing supports, of course, that we continue to work on this issue. There is broad agreement in this room that we should help those who need protection. It is very important that we try to reduce the number of groundless asylum seekers, and if we can do it, we can turn the funds on those who need more help. It is also important to continue to strengthen the work of revealing false identity, both in the income and in the application process, and to address those who have managed to obtain incorrect residence permits in Norway. Then I must also give tribute to the government for the practice of return and return. This is a very important work that several nations are now looking to Norway to learn from. People who do not return voluntarily, we must work actively with them. Tracing Norwegian laws, regulations and decisions is not to be rewarded. At the seventh and last, it affects those who need protection. This government has also closed the buset faster than we accept. While the previous government had to assess coercive measures against the municipalities in order to get them settled, there is now competition among municipalities to get a bus. We are now demanding more stringent measures both for municipalities to achieve results and for those who are planning to integrate themselves well. To set such requirements is to care. We want a more targeted, individualised training adjustment, and this government adds up to it. The policy of government benefits the individual immigrant, and not least: when an immigrant is closed down with integration, it benefits the entire community.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2178	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2183	It has been a little mixed pleasure to follow up on this debate today and also the debate in the last few days. It is clear that the debate on the irretrievable asylum seekers and their work permit that we got swirled up after the Gunnar Stålsett case with Lula, who is sitting in the gallery here now and is following this debate, has helped to move some positions in the parties. I thought I'd try to comment on it a little bit. The scheme is therefore about SV wishing this group to receive a temporary work permit. We're worried that they're in a limbo situation. They can't be forced to return. They also believe that they cannot voluntarily return for many of the same reasons that they cannot be forced to return. Thus they go into hiding, many of them, they do black work, and they are easily vulnerable to exploitation. That's the positions. We see that many parties are divided into the matter. Let me start by listing it: The working party is divided. The Oslo Workers' Party made a decision a few days ago that is exactly the same as the proposal being promoted today. I am concerned that representatives from the Labour Party, especially from the Oslo Workers' Party, come to the pulpit here and explain whether they will support the Oslo Workers' Party, or whether they will support the government in this matter. It's a little bit important for us to clarify. This is where Raymond Johansen stands, among others. clearly on the lines of the Oslo Workers' Party, and then I want to know whether Gharahkhani supports Raymond or Erna Solberg in this matter. Then we're happy to record that the Center Party has helped to move the positions a little bit. They make some openings, and I think that's really nice. They're not so absolute. What I am very concerned and provoked about is the positions of the Christian People's Party and the Left. In the reply we were told that they agreed with SV, fully agree with SV, they would like to have supported SV, etc., but they were bound by the government's obligations and the government's platform. It's understandable to us here in the Storting, but definitely not understandable to most people. That is why I would ask them to take some time to relax in the public debate. This double game just doesn't understand people. They have played a role as the great heroes of the insurmountable asylum seekers. Yes, we shall take care of their interests, says the Christian People's Party and the Left. Here in the staging room, they're going to stab them in the back. I believe that this way of running politics is unworthy. They contribute to creating expectations that they later brutally break down. This is not supposed to be Norwegian policy. I regret that the Left and Christian People's Party behaves that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2198	The President would like to say that other representatives have been stabbing someone in the back.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2203	"We can't grant asylum to people just because they live in poor places." This is what the Committee on Immigration said, Jon Engen-Helgheim, to the Evening Post on 10 March this year. There's one thing I've always been stunned about. The strongest opponents of our helping people in distress and letting some of them come here to Norway argue that instead we should help them where they are. But what does it do when these parties are at the same time the strongest supporters of a policy that leads more people into distress where they live – a policy that leads to a global climate crisis, a policy that allows us to get a sea level rise of one metre and 145 million people into flight as a result of climate change? So they won't let any of them come here or actually help them where they are. They will make the situation considerably worse for them where they are. One of the proposals we are considering today is the proposal to grant temporary work permits to unreturnable refugees as long as they cannot be returned. This is about letting them retain their dignity. It's about human dignity. It's about letting them contribute to the Norwegian community. After former Bishop Gunnar Stålsett openly told me that he had given a job to Lula Tekle, one of the unresectable refugees, we have seen a stream of heat from the Norwegian people. One I know, was so pleased with Steelsett's warmth in practice that she started a small collection to send off the farm a flower pot to the former bishop. Any surplus would go to the Norwegian Asylum Seeker Organisation. Today, this surplus is approaching NOK 90 000. This shows that despite a cold cynicism from the great majority, it is a sea of warmth of heart in the Norwegian people. Some of the things that upset me in this case are the parties that in the media say that they agree with the bishop, that they agree with SV, but that are today going to vote for our proposal. Hypocrisy is a natural description of such an action.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2215	Democracy is at the bottom just a little spoiler and staple, I get the impression of when it's spoken from this pulpit. I'm actually busy building a good majority for the opinions we have, and to build a good majority you have to give and take. Both the Christian People's Party and the Left have chosen the framework we have in the current government. It doesn't help to stand in the lawn and protest without getting anything through, it's called symbol politics. I'm so concerned with real-life politics, and I'm so honest that I say what I would have done most of the time. I could have quite elegantly explained that. It is also quite amazing that you are told to calm down in a debate in which the Christian People's Party is wanted. That's amazing! You almost don't know how to behave. I would like to repeat again the appeal I had to the Minister of Justice, whether he can confirm from this pulpit that he will very soon come back with a case to the Stortinget based on the point in the Granavolden platform that has previously been clarified. Finally, it is incredibly important also to focus on the good integration policy we have. There has been a shift in the pace of integration policy. The individual is seen much more. Differentiated solutions are provided to the individual in a much better way. The dialogue and cooperation with the municipalities is good. Efforts are constantly being made to improve the programme through which new arrivals are to be made, and the aim is, on the other hand, to ensure that there are safe, good citizens who can participate in both education and working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2224	To the proposals that apply to the unemployed, the so-called "unrecoverable": the government party itself writes in the setting that ‘applicants unable to return to their country of origin as a result of practical obstacles beyond the property of the foreigner may be granted a residence permit with the right to work: [[(Failure of a Member State to fulfil its obligations —Failure of a Member State to ……]] A reference is also made to Section 38 of the Foreign Act, which requires the foreign authorities to consider whether a person should give up when there is strong human dignity or the foreigner has a special connection with the State. In the case of Section 8-7 of the Foreign Regulation on practical obstacles to return, it is, as I have learned, granted at the lower end of 10 such permits from 2007 until now. In other words, this is a very narrow exception, which is practised so strictly that it does not really have any particular value. Paragraphs 8-7 do not cover the group that is now being discussed, people who have stayed for a long time in Norway without having been returned. When applicable, Section 38 of the Foreign Act, it is also practised so strictly that a person really ignores the purpose of the foreign law. The central party proposes to go through the ban on temporary work for unrecoverable asylum seekers and assess the differentiation of the legislation, including: in the case of stateless and elderly asylum seekers, and that a life-cycle study is being carried out in the case of older unrecoverable asylum seekers. We're talking here about the working conditions of those who are irreversible, not generally for those who are without legal residence in the country. I think there are limits to what are immigration regulatory measures. Refusing to work unrecoverable asylum seekers is such a limit. Refusing unreturnable and others without paper health care is another such limit. I would like to remind you that the Progress Party, which today stated that the unresectables have opted for their own situation, proposed in 2010 in the UK that it should be punishable by allowing humanitarian and health-related help to be given to people with illegal detention, while the Central Party, SV and the Christian People's Party propose that they should receive health care in the same way as others. Today, laws and regulations are being practiced so strictly. I am unsure whether the laws, regulations and administrative provisions have to be amended. That's what has to work out. I want to post Jan Fridjof Bernt at last: «The question is simple: is this a rule we can be familiar with? This is partly a matter of common sense, but above all a profoundly serious choice of value.».
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2251	First, I can say to the representative Trellevik, who makes it sound like it pays to be a refugee and an asylum seeker: it doesn't pay to lose everything and be in such a situation. And to the Christian People's Party: there are some evil majority who have settled down after the refugee crisis. In its review, the Emergency Response Committee can tell – in NOW 2019:13, When the crisis occurs – that there was no need for major changes in the law to deal with this. There was a need for better government governance. When the authorities did not, Stortinget – minus SV and MDG – responded to that panic and tightened up. And there we are now. Not only Norway has done this. It has also been done throughout Europe, and as a result, in a situation where the refugee crisis is greater than ever, there are closed borders. That's what the majority here say they're very satisfied with -- that you don't help anymore. In Greece, there is a total crisis. There are crowded camps with a humanitarian situation that I don't think we can imagine. Nevertheless, the majority here believe that we should not relieve Greece of this, rather stop sending asylum seekers who have a stamp in the passport, from Norway to Greece. Those who are engaged in international agreements should be terrified that the entire Dublin cooperation is going on, because when you let some border countries get to take the whole bang as you do now, it won't surprise me if it rakes. So to the matter that has perhaps received the most attention today, namely the unrecoverable. I noticed that the Council of State in reply to me does not go into what he himself says. He says that everyone should be punished equally. Yeah, but not everyone's being prosecuted. There are very many serious crimes in Norway that are not prosecuted, and then I am very surprised that the Council of State is at all choosing to comment on a case like this. However, it is part of the politicisation of both asylum and refugee policy, which should initially be the fulfilment of international conventions and human rights, either in the EMC or in the UN Convention on the Law of Asylum and Human Rights, or that one should have an prosecution authority to handle this. I think I have people with me when I say that winning crimes, violence, drugs and economic crime are far worse and should be given priority than if someone gives people a job so that they have food in their mouths. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: However, 15 shall not be taken into account for parturition. In the case of D II, it has to go out because it was decided in the financial debate, after reference from the Storting Secretariat. We have also been asked to make an amendment to D III, and then the proposal becomes as follows: ‘The government is asking the Government to return to Stortinget as soon as possible with a case of full funding for the transfer of the county road administration from the state to the county municipalities.’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2267	Then it would be registered.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2272	I am pleased that today we are discussing the entire budget and the entire task portfolio for the remit of the Municipal Committee. For me, the most important thing is to debate how we can get more people to work, and the fight against social control. Real freedom is only available when you also have the opportunity to break out and walk in the ultimate sense. There are currently no common fixed contact points in municipalities for those who experience negative social control, which they can contact for help. All in Norway should be able to choose whom to marry, and they should be able to differ. Divorce under Norwegian law shall be respected by the different religious and life views. Girls and boys are subjected to everything from mild pressure to violence if they do not accept to marry the family they want, and some are engaged in religious marriages when the child is under 18. The Labour Party will have a total effort to combat social control, and we're going to raise $15 million. kr in our alternative budget to strengthen voluntary work in the field of integration. We want to label some of the media and, among other things, we want to label them. I'll give you 2 million. kr to the organisation City Mothers. Furthermore, the Labour Party believes it is important to combat social control and negative attitudes towards LHBTI+ people. Therefore, we will set at NOK 900000 to the organisation Skeiv the world to develop a programme for employees in the introduction scheme. In addition to this, we want all municipalities to have contact persons with multicultural competence to help children and adults who need support through, for example: father schemes, town council schemes, interaction with local teams and associations and school-home cooperation. We want to give back life to girls who don't live a free life. Then we have to provide a law that gives the police the space for action they need to help girls who live under strong mental pressure. Furthermore, we will clarify the role and responsibilities of the religious communities, and we will have dialogue actions between different religious and life-view societies. Religious religious communities which do not recognise divorce under Norwegian law or practice religious courts shall lose State aid. Religious communities that do not work for equality and integration must lose state aid, and we will enter into a social contract that commits to active integration work in all religious and life-view societies receiving public support.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2290	Sometimes I get wiser from a debate – today I have been asked more and more questions. One thing that is absolutely certain, is that our proposal to review this subject and look at the possibility of a differentiation, is much more topical than I was aware of when I promoted the proposal yesterday. I am pleased that the representative of Mr Engen-Helgheim will have the floor afterwards, because neither the Council of State nor the representative of Mr Bransdal would answer what this proposal they are discussing is really about. I had some questions that were not answered. How many do we have here? Is that 10, 100 or 1,000? What kind of age group is involved? Should there be a requirement for ID clearance to obtain a residence permit, and is there a general amnesty, where everyone will receive a residence permit? Will this be accompanied by a work permit, or is it only for them to receive a residence permit, and will they still not be allowed to give birth to themselves? That would be strange. Should they be allowed permanent or temporary residence? All these questions I tried to ask in the loop without getting any answer to them. And what kind of age group does this apply to? Parents who have been here for more than 16 years – but who are older? Are they over 40, over 60, or who is it? And I also asked the question, When can we expect to get this case to Stortinget? I think the representative Bransdal has also given a very clear order that she will have a clarification on that, so it could be incredibly interesting to get answers to those questions. Now when it turns out that the government itself adds up to a general amnesty for a large or small group of these, it makes it clear that the need for a review and a differentiation is very urgent. So I hope that before we finish today's debate, someone will be able to figure out who this is about, and how this is going to be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2299	I have to say that this has gradually become a special opinion to listen to. The representative Trellevik says that the government has had and has good control, and then he shows that they were tested in 2015. Yes, that went well! Kaoset started in Svinesund and Sarpsborg. The government was silent, not responding. Kaoset moved to Oslo, there were people and cream in the streets, to use that expression, without food and water. The government barely reacted, volunteers had to stand up and make sure people got clothes, food and water. There was chaos in the streets, there was chaos in the borders, and now I haven't even come to Storskog, where it went all over the stick and stone. There was no control from the government in 2015. You can't even try to rewrite history that way, it doesn't matter, and when they try, we have to argue it. The representative Trellevik then goes on to say that now it is very low immigration to Norway – yes, it is quite right – and it is the sole fault of the government. No, that's not it. The main single factor in the very low level of immigration into Norway now is that the whole of Europe has closed its borders. There's no way through. That's the biggest single reason why there's low immigration to us that's the furthest out on the string. In addition, the Left comes into the Chamber and attacks the Working Party because the Left does not have the backbone to vote for what they are for. They accuse the Workers' Party that the Left itself is not allowed by the Right and the Advance Party to vote as the Left really will. It's totally unheard of. And that doesn't stop there – because then Christian People's Party takes the floor of the representative Bransdal and almost instructs his own Minister of Justice from Stortinget's pulpit to now follow up the Granavolden declaration. The representative Bransdal does it twice, and in addition, the representative Bransdal – yes, she used the word she regrets – that the Christian People's Party is not allowed by the Right and the Advance Party to vote in favour of the SV's proposal, as the Christian People's Party really wants. It has also been shown what the leader of the Christian People's Party has said on the matter. Control, says Trellevik. No, this debate has, if anything else, shown that there is full disunity, chaos and disunity in the government. It is good that there is at least one case that is being made clear during this evening.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2310	In fact, the description of the government's cooperation from the representative Lauvås was most likely to be heard as the Workers' Party's internal debate on immigration policy. I think it's all right that we have a slightly different view in the different parts of a government, but we can actually find solutions. I might have said once that we can't give asylum to people just because it's bad weather where they come from, that's what I think most people want to say. But that's not why I went up to take the word. The representative, Andersen, has pointed to Greece as a major challenge. Greece is a major challenge, and the reason Greece is a major challenge is that the authorities that have made a part of it sometimes call for, namely not to follow up on return policy – return people with coerciveness, deal with asylum applications quickly and implement those decisions. These include: the reason for such problems. And then there have been many strong statements in this hall from those who have claimed to have monopoly on right human vision and right morals. I think it's nice that someone puts their belief in the human vision of others. When we have parties like SV, which believe that the Christian People's Party is stabbing the knife in the back of the asylum seeker and giving false hopes: yes, there are some who stand in the first row and give false hopes to groundless asylum seekers, it is SV who repeatedly stands on the barricades and fights for groundless asylum seekers' opportunities to stay in Norway, while they are consciously aware that it will go beyond those who really need it. I think it's strange that we have parties who think it's heartwarming and good to make sure that we put a system under pressure, and who believe that those parties that have a whole policy – who want to limit immigration to Norway, so to save money, that can once again be used to help a lot more of those who need it much more, in the neighbourhoods where there is war and conflict – have a bad human vision. They believe that when you have a policy that would have proved to have helped many more, you have a bad view of people. Instead, individuals are used in the media to give them false hopes of staying in Norway, which will lead to more people travelling on a journey without a need for protection in order to obtain rights in Norway. It would always put those who really need our attention and our help, in the shadow. I don't think that's a particularly impressive human vision. I'll call it bad politics. I'm not going to make myself a judge over the human view of others, which someone in this room thinks is very popular to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2321	Now this debate starts to get a little warm -- it's really nice -- after two to three hours. That's very good. Yes, I can promise Jon Engen-Helgheim that SV will always be on the barricades to defend people who need rights, to defend the weakest, to defend asylum seekers and refugees like refugees from war, conflict or persecution. Yes, we always have to defend them. We've always done that, and we'll always do that in the future, at least as long as Karin Andersen and I are politicians. I can promise Jon Engen-Helgheim that we can continue to have this kind of debate. I will also continue my call to the representatives of the Workers' Party to come to the Chair and explain why they will vote for Prime Minister Erna Solberg's solution in this matter, and not for Raymond Johansen, Frode Jacobsen and the Oslo Workers' Party's solution. We need an explanation for that. It's possible that that's what Eirik Sivertsen is going to bring up when he comes to the pulpit right now. Then I have been challenged by the Christian People's Party. I have mentioned that the Christian People's Party and the Left are running a double game in the matter of the irreversible asylum seekers. They support the irreversible asylum seekers in the public debate. They go out loud and support them – Kjell Ingolf Roppstad does, and Abid Raja does. They build hope and expectations and joy, especially among the unreturnable asylum seekers. That's precisely because they're just telling half the truth. They don't tell in the public debate that they're going to say no to them in the Storting. That's what I call a double game. That's why I say the leader of the Christian People's Party and Abid Raja, who is not here, should calm down in the public debate. Because in the public debate out against the people, they have to tell the whole story. They have to tell us that they are in favour of the rights of the unresectable asylum seekers, but that when they get to the Stortinget, they're going to say no to what they at the same time say in the media that they are in favour of. They have to tell the whole story. They do not do that in the public debate. It doesn't Kjell Ingolf Rupstad, and it doesn't Abid Raja. They only tell half the story. That's when I think it's a double game, and they have to calm down and be honest with the people. They build up some sort of contempt for what we politicians are actually doing. I think that's very unworthy. As parliamentarians, we have a responsibility for people to understand what we are doing. Then we can't say one thing in the media and do something completely different inside the staging room.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2332	The Christian People's Party representative Bransdal wanted confirmation that the government is working with the implementation of the Granavolden point that older unresectable asylum seekers who have lived here for more than 16 years will have a one-off solution. I can confirm that it works for the government. The Granavolden platform is a good platform where we have more intrusive measures, but we also have a balance, which means that those who are perhaps most vulnerable get a solution to their case when they have been in Norway for a very long time. So yes, we work to get a good solution to this, along with our government partners. I want to say that this is going to be a good solution for them, but I can't stand here and now and say how many there are, because there are really facts that are going to be decisive, as we have got the device on the proposal itself. I have to say that I'm reacting a little bit to all the criticisms that the Christian People's Party gets here in the Chamber, because this with older ones is not a new thing that has just appeared lately. This is one thing that has been here for a long time, and I don't remember that in its eight years in government, SV got to such a point that the Christian People's Party has now got into the Granavolden platform.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2342	Let me start by reassuring the representative of Engen-Helgheim that in the Workers' Party we are discussing both this matter and many other matters. Every now and then we do it quite loudly. With over 50,000 members, there are many opinions, many different defrostings. It is a force for democracy in the Workers' Party. I don't know how they do it in the Progress Party. This issue is not new. We've discussed this problem many times. For example, when we were in government, a proposal from the Left was made, which was also answered by the government. This is not an isolated Norwegian problem either. The United States has similar problems, discussion about legal residence, work permit or not, what happens when you get too many people who don't have it, etc. It's a known issue. The complexity of the issue is also seen in today's debate, and there are several reasons why the Workers' Party has called for a different immigration policy, a change in which we want to have a fairer system, where we focus on help in the neighbourhoods, where we want to strengthen the system of quota refugees, because we believe it will be both more responsible and fairer. Then there's another issue that disturbs the debate, and that's the concept practice here. I'm not going to go into it and judge what's the right term, but just take one example. There is a discussion going on: are we talking about irreversibles, or are we talking about returns? They're the same people we're talking about, but the perspective is very different. It's not very easy to follow the debate if you don't know the details. This is no simple matter. I am a little surprised by the representatives from SV. The representative Eide said in an article here that he was now pleased that there was a bit of a hot debate, and then he told his co-representatives to calm down in public. The representative Haltbrecken refers to representatives as cynical and says they commit hypocrisy. I am surprised that such a form of debate is allowed to pass through the Stortinget. The Labour Party has been challenged by the representative Eide on what Oslo Arbeiderparti believes, and what the Storing Group believes. To be polite, I'm going to answer that, but it's now the big group that's represented here. If we're going to be honest, there's a real difference between what SV suggests, and what the Workers' Party means, because as we see SV, after hearing them here today, it's about everyone getting a work permit as long as they stay here, then they're going to have an opportunity to support themselves. The working party's big group and I agree with the leader of the Oslo Workers' Party, is that as long as you cooperate fully, as long as you have cleared the ID, and as long as you want to cooperate on returns, we can facilitate it. That is why it was important for us today to get an insurance from the Council of State that it is actually possible. We got it, we trust it. That's why we're not going to vote for the proposals from either the SV or the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2359	As several people at the end of today's debate have been involved, regulation 8-7 of Section 38 of the Foreign Affairs Act has been used only very few times, less than ten times in 12 years, says UNE. Now it's a little bit unclear what the government actually wants to be going on, but it gets time to show. Nevertheless, there are several aspects to this provision and its use — or lack of use — of it. We know that Norway is being criticised for breaking the UN Convention on Statelessness, and we are the only country in the Nordic region that has neither a definition of nor a procedure for determining just statelessness. The Minister of Knowledge and Integration has confirmed in a previous debate that Norway is considering introducing a definition of just statelessness and fulfilling parts of the UN Convention. Now that the Minister of Justice and Immigration is also present, the Senter Party wants to call for progress in this matter. We believe that at least a definition of statelessness in Norway should be expected to come into place relatively quickly. Then it's called for.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2368	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2373	First to the Workers' Party: SV's correct proposal is exactly the same as the Oslo Workers' Party adopted. There's no difference. I notice that the Labour Party trusts the Advance Party in these matters, and we have known that for a long time. With regard to the situation in Greece, there is a neighbourhood of conflict. That's your asylum seeker coming. They are abandoned by their European neighbours, including Norway, they are forced to fall asleep in an economic crisis, and Norway continues to try to return people there, sail if almost no asylum seekers come to Norway. So those who say they want to help in the neighbourhoods and don't want to help Greece don't have much credibility. It is quite wrong that SV believes that asylum seekers should be allowed to remain without grounds of asylum. No, on the contrary, we are on human rights, and there we are going to stand as a stake. Then the right to asylum applies, and the government has broken the line for too long.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2382	Whether I have expressed myself unclear or not was heard well enough, does not matter that much. But let me clarify: It is true that the proposal proposed by SV is similar in words with what the Oslo Workers' Party has adopted. But the interpretations of what that means are miles apart. That's our point. The representative Karin Andersen is completely wrong when she says I trust the Progress Party. No, I didn't say that. I said that I trust the Council of State and with the full responsibility resulting from the liability law and the Constitution. These are two very different things.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2394	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2411	It is a unanimous recommendation from the Committee. The Committee points out that it was decided that the responsibilities of county councils in the field of integration should be strengthened by transferring tasks and responsibilities in areas where county councils have a role, in particular in the field of competence policy. Municipalities should contribute more to the qualification of refugees and immigrants to meet regional labour needs. The Committee points out that KS has pointed out that it does not include resources for the new tasks and would point out that this is a major weakness in ongoing reforms. The Committee would highlight the importance of the involvement of employees in the transfer of new duties and staff. Then there's a mistake in setting that it's important to point out, during the decision. It shall read ‘Decisions to the Act on temporary employment’. So there's a few words missing there.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2422	I am not going to go out on this, but just briefly comment that in the comments it may seem that the government parties believe that there is too little money being transferred to the states in connection with the regional reform. You can also read it as if it were the position of the KS. For the sake of order, the government parties believe that there are resources in the system to do this, and if it is read differently, it gets in the incurrency account.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2427	Although it is a unanimous attitude, I still believe this is an important matter, so I want to attach some comments to it. As part of the regional reform, it has been decided that regional tasks in the integration field will be transferred from IMDi to the county municipalities from 1 January 2020. Municipalities should contribute more to the qualification of refugees and immigrants to meet regional labour needs. The county councils shall, inter alia: responsibility for recommending the number of refugees to be settled in each municipality in the county and for drawing up plans for the qualification of immigrants. The municipalities should also provide guidance and follow-up to the municipalities in their work on the qualification of newly arrived immigrants. These are mainly tasks currently in the IMFI, which are transferred to the county municipalities from 2020 onwards. The new county municipalities are thus the regional element of integration policy. Those currently employed in the IMFI have valuable skills. This competence will be enhanced when the county councils take over the regional integration tasks. It is therefore important that employees are given the opportunity to follow the tasks of the county councils. Earlier this year, the size has adopted changes in the law governing the transfer of employees in the State Roadway to county municipalities. The government believes it is right that the transfer of employees from IMDi to county municipalities is handled as far as possible in the same way as the transfer from the State Road Service. We therefore propose a temporary law to apply to the transfer of regional integration tasks from the IMFI to the county municipalities. In cooperation with the KS, agreements have now been concluded between the IMDi and most municipalities. The agreements regulate the employees of the IMFI who are entitled to carry out their duties. The temporary law provides for derogations from the rules on public procurement of posts and from the principle of qualification. In this way, the law facilitates the implementation of the agreement that has been concluded. I am pleased that the Stortinge joins the government's bill, which ensures that the agreement concluded between the IMFI and the county councils can be implemented. The law and the agreement will jointly address the county councils’ need for competence in carrying out the regional integration tasks and allow employees of the regional offices of the IMDi to follow the tasks of the county council.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2448	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2465	I'll be brief. It is an overall committee that is behind the recommendation and supports the proposition of the government. The reason why I asked for the floor is that I want to use the opportunity to ask the Council of State to note that there is also a unanimous committee that has a comment asking for an assessment of how to also ensure that interpreters other than mere linguists are registered, so that resources can be used effectively and appropriately by more. I expect that the Council of State will take note and follow up in an appropriate manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2470	Yeah, that's important. SV also supports this bill, but we have used the opportunity to put the search light on the fact that the sign language interpreters also need such a register. In a debate earlier today, the Minister for Digitalisation has said that it is important to coordinate different digital solutions for the public sector, so that different systems do not need to be set up, and that there is one place to go. Then it doesn't matter whether this is based here or there. The interpreters should be given an overview and an opportunity to find them, and they should be easily accessible. There are major problems in interpreting, not only in terms of the management of foreigners and the need for interpretation by the public sector in different situations, but also for those who need interpretative assistance because they are hearing-impaired or have a total hearing loss. There are many requests that this does not work well enough today. We believe it would be very appropriate to sort this out now when one has started, and not least what the Minister for Digitalisation was here today and said, that we should have a public sector that works smoothly and well between ourselves, and that the different users should not have to look for different schemes. That is why I take up the SV's proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2480	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the proposal she referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, cases will be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 4 and 5 will be treated together.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2512	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Right 25 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes and Socialist Left Party, Left, Christian People's Party, Environment Party Green and Red 5 minutes each. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, there will be an opportunity for a sequence change of up to three lines with replies from the main figures of the lots and five lines with replies from members of the government. In addition, those who have to sign up for the speaker list in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2523	It could have been tempting to say, after yesterday's fight, that the budget we are dealing with today is like Liverpool's leadership in the Premier League. We are now approaching a budget of nearly 500 billion. for various purposes for which that Committee is responsible. We have issues that affect all citizens, whether that's what kind of work we have, how we catch those who fall out of work and can't work, or what kind of pension you have for people who, after a long professional life, are going to live quite well from their pension. That is why the Committee now has several issues to consider – both the budget and, in particular, the Announcement. St.4 for 2019-2020, on the regulation of pensions and pensioners' income ratios. I think in a debate about this it makes sense to lift your eyes a little bit and see what the status is. Norway is not perfect. Our welfare system does not catch up with everyone who needs help, and there are mistakes. Yes, as we have recently learned, very serious mistakes have been made, and people are victims of injustice. But despite this, luckily most people have it very well in Norway. We have a welfare system that is probably the best in the world. We have a working life that is basically well-functioning. We have a working life where there is a good relationship between employers and employees, which is evident when nine out of ten employees are on work. We have a labour market where unemployment is record low and where employment is increasing. But we also have a system where errors are detected and corrected, as the recent scandals have shown. The error was discovered that the public itself, and they went open with it. It is a strength for democracy and also shows the strength of the system. But I don't think people necessarily bite at much of the argument we're going to hear during the debate today. I record that parts of the opposition have already been out in the media and among other things. the budget adopted today is raging well-being and the well-being of the population is being systematically reduced. During the last year with a red-green government, 370 billion were used. on welfare measures through popular protection. With today's budget, adopted by the Advance Party and the Government, it is committed to spending 440 billion. kr on well-being through popularism, i.e. an increase of 370 billion. DKK to 440 billion kr. This shows that this government has strengthened the well-being of Norway. Then, of course, it is perfectly possible to disagree on the areas of well-being that should be strengthened, which should perhaps be reduced, which should be changed and, where appropriate, which new arrangements should be put in place. This government has actively invested in care money. Finally, it has also become a rather coherent hall – it is something that you have thought is right to spend more money on. Then it's wrong to call it degradation and fury. On the contrary, this government guarantees well-being. We are strengthening well-being, but we are also ensuring that the welfare system is as adapted as possible to the society we live in this year. For the future will not be adopted, the future will be created. If we are still to have money to ensure the welfare of the future, the values must be created. It's business that creates values, and our job as politicians is to facilitate business. This can be done, as this government has done in many fields, by reducing taxes, reducing red tape and building roads and other modes of transport, so that businesses get their goods around and employees can easily get to and from work. But it is not least that this government has modernised the Working Environment Act, the framework itself, made sure that we are crystal clear that we do not accept poor treatment of employees. There must be clean and good conditions in the labour market, but there must also be flexibility, both in business and in enterprises and not least in employee demand. We also see the results of the modernisation of the Working Environment Act. We see good results, get good feedback. In other words, the fear propaganda that has come in recent years has proved to be a mistake. Yes, there are challenges, but then we will address those challenges. We who are so privileged and can be involved in determining how well-being will be in the years to come must also honor those who have given us this opportunity, those who have created these values, that is, today's pensioners. Today's pensioners are the ones who helped build the beautiful country we've inherited. They deserve a decent and good pension. That is also why the only party that voted against the pension reform was the Progress Party, mainly because we are opposed to underregulation of the country's pensioners. We believe that pensioners should have the same purchasing power development as everyone else, not underregulation, nor underregulation with the new type of underregulation of the Workers' Party. But this is something the Progress Party has not been given a majority to change, unfortunately. I am therefore pleased – something the big message we have for today, also clearly shows – that all groups of pensioners are doing better financially today than they had before the Progress Party came into government. This is because the Progress Party, together with the remaining government parties, has made sure to reduce the tax burden on its pensioners, to raise lonely minimum pensioners and to reduce the unsocial shortening of married and cohabiting pensioners. But the Progress Party is not satisfied. We will continue the fight for the country's pensioners until both underregulation and curtailment are abolished. Another important element of a debate dealing with so many important welfare benefits funded by the Community through taxes is the legitimacy of benefits. I think there's one important value we have in Norway, and it's non-discrimination. However, when we look at the fear of the people, refugees have had more special rights in the fear of the people. The party of progress has always been against it. We think we should have one set of rules that should apply to all of them. You have to have rules that allow for individual adaptation and see the individual, but we don't need rules based on groups, and that's why we've always been opposed to refugees having special advantages. I am therefore pleased that with the attitude we are discussing here today, we are abolishing the special advantages that refugees have had in the fear of the people. That the Socialist Left Party is against it is not surprising, but I must say I am surprised that the Workers' Party and the Senter Party are on a line where refugees should have better earnings rights, for example. in the fear of the people other than the people. I think that's strange and sad, but fortunately, they belong to the minority. The majority of people today are correcting that injustice. It is easy to understand that the debate will be about concrete benefits. That's important, because we're going to have good performances that capture those that fall outside. But we must not forget all the everyday heroes who go to work every day. Many of them go to poorly paid jobs, but they get up in the morning, go to work and pay taxes. Nor should we forget them in the political debate. We must raise them and ensure – as this government does – that these are people who will retain more of their own income. I guess they're wrong. I am pleased and proud that we have achieved such a good budget. It doesn't solve all the challenges, all the four parties have both won and lost, but Norway is moving in the right direction. The numbers show it, the results show it. More people can live on their own income, that's an important and good parameter, and not least, the country's pensioners have a better economy today than before the Progress Party came into government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2548	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2553	The pledge of the pensioners with whom the representative Wiborg concluded, I think there are few of the pensioners who have noticed. On the contrary, we hear that the pensioners feel that they have failed by a party of progress that forgot them as they entered the government. But what I was going to ask about is about the changes the government is now implementing in terms of the housing requirement for refugees. Now the Progress Party and the Government have invited 9 000 quota refugees to Norway. I am so pleased about that, but what I am not happy about, and the Labour Party is critical of, is that the government is turning costs over to municipalities that already have a pushed economy. For the outcome of policies, namely increasing living requirements and cutting government schemes for refugees, which will force more people to benefit from social assistance, municipalities will have to cut off municipal services such as school, kindergarten and old people's homes because of government policies. Is the Progress Party proud of implementing a policy that will push more people into social assistance and reduce communal tasks?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2562	I think you have to spend a relatively long time sitting on the Stortinget with a relatively good salary to think that $8,000 more in retirement because we reduced the abbreviation for married and cohabiting, are not noticed and are small money. I think that is evidence of a lack of understanding of the everyday life of the country's pensioners. I think it is right that the country's pensioners should not be punished because they are married or cohabited, as the representatives of Grande and the Workers' Party believe. And yes, I am proud that we have managed to bring immigration to Norway in total. I am also pleased that we have a government that dares to make demands on those who come, also to demand that you have lived in Norway a few years before you have the right to certain benefits. The alternative is not automatic social assistance, as the representative of Grande clearly believes. The option may be for too many people to help people out of work by making demands. It is sad that the Workers' Party no longer stands for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2569	Government policy leads to increased differences for pensioners. That underregulation continues — when the Workers' Party tries to correct that error and ensure that pensioners do not lose this year where there is otherwise wage development and increased purchasing power in the population — is a mystery to me. The government’s grip on increasing living requirements will push more people into social assistance. We have seen that as a consequence of government policies in several areas: several ports of social assistance. The government's lack of effort bill was passed on to the municipalities. Where are the municipalities to cut when they do not receive the State transfer required by the cuts made by the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2578	There are two questions. First of all, it is strange to stand in this room and hear the Workers' Party criticise the pension scheme they themselves introduced against the votes of the Progress Party. And when the Progress Party has proposed to change it, the Labour Party has voted against it. The Labour Party has promoted the draft budget in this Chamber, which means that married and cohabiting pensioners will receive DKK 8 000 to DKK 9 000 less in annual pensions. Then I think they should go a little bit quieter in the doors. I also think the representative Grande shows that he has very little faith in those who actually come to Norway. I believe that very many immigrants, refugees and others who come to Norway will be able to integrate themselves into society and get into work. It seems that the representative Grande will almost automatically give up people and think that they need to shift to different public benefits immediately. No, with good integration, where we make demands, we can also help more immigrants into work.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2585	The centre party has never accused the government of raging well-being or of bringing terror propaganda. What's the point is that the government with the Right and the Advance Party in the head is taking the changes gradually. One is in favour of a systematic deterioration in the performance of the economically weak groups. The minimum benefits in redundancy benefits for new users are now reduced by NOK 70000 for persons under 25. A liquidated default supplement for new users for all recipients of redundancy benefits regardless of age. One increases the requirement of living time for refugees, who have had no chance of earning rights in the countries from which they flee. My simple questions are the following two: Is the impact of government proposals that more people will have to ask for social support? Is the impact of the government's proposal that there be greater economic differences?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2592	The consequence of the government's budget and policies is that more people are being helped out into work. It also shows the result. We see that unemployment falls. We see that the employment rate is increasing. We see that the cost of welfare measures through popular security has increased from 370 billion. DKK to 440 billion kr. Then are the words that everything is rage, or that it is shameful cut, etc., I do not agree. But yes, we make adjustments in welfare benefits when it is right and necessary. The help and benefits that were provided 30–40 years ago were correct, but today the system may be different, the needs may be different, and there are other instruments that are needed to help the individual. The world is not standing still, as the representative Lundteg seems to believe.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2599	It's almost Christmas, and those who have little notice even better than otherwise that they can't afford the same thing as others. Some of the people who know very well that the wallet was not extended are families with children where one or both of them are unable to work. The cut in the children's plugin introduced from 2015 will be more than once calculated. This means that the government will save more money. The government will now save 89 million. kr on this cut. There are almost twice as many claims when the tightening occurred. While the government in 2015 estimated that it would be in the hands of 1,400 people, updated figures now show that it is in the hands of 1,900 people. Does the representative Wiborg think that this cut, which hits those who can't work, will get more people to work, or what's really the motive behind this cut?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2609	I think this was a right constraint. We've said that you can't get more than 99 pst. of previous salary in disability benefits with children’s allowances. I think that's quite right and fair. Unlike the representative Lerbreck, I think it is wrong that someone should be able to get more in different benefits than they did when they worked. It damages the working line, which in the past has been left to a relatively broad majority in this room. What I'm asking is, where are the representatives of Lerbreck and the Socialist Left Party taking care of all the workers in Norway who actually get up and go to work every day and are involved in financing this, if they see that others can get more in different benefits than those who work? It's not fair, and that's why I think this is right.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2616	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2621	The working party's alternative budget has been chiseled out with three clear objectives: We need to cut greenhouse gas emissions, while creating new jobs. We need to reduce the economic differences and strengthen the wallet to people most. We need to ensure and further develop the welfare state of the city and country. For the Workers' Party, it is absolutely essential that the welfare is ensured by people's work. By employing more people, we ensure that more people are able to use their skills, that they are paid to support themselves, and that they contribute to the fragmentation of the welfare state in Norway. However, obtaining work is not a responsibility that can rest on each individual citizen in Norway. Therefore, we have never left anyone alone to face challenges in Norway. We built the common school, so that everyone could have opportunities for education, we created a health service that ensured that everyone gets help if they fall outside, and we take care of the old in our society when they can't do it themselves – we take responsibility for each other and bear responsibility for society together. We have to make sure that everyone can join our society. It's our leading star when we're making budgets, and when we're proposing how we're going to develop our country. For over six years we have had a government that focuses on other things, which prioritises something else. Because while representatives from the government of Solberg have gone, and will go, on the pulpit today with powerful defence of government policy, reality is quite another for many people. Although a lot is good, it's not an excuse to ignore what's not going well. And while the government has cut the taxes of those who have the most, and has increased the economic inequality in Norway, many more have had a more difficult everyday life. The tax has increased, the tax deduction has decreased, the wage growth has been close to zero, and many have experienced real wage cuts — and everyday life has become tougher. And the government has reinforced the effects of running a policy for the richest, the most powerful. Over a century, Norway has had few conflicts between the employee and the employer, and we have had a high level of employment. That's because of the tripartite cooperation. Cooperation between employees and employers has ensured that the best for the country, for the enterprise and for the individual employee has been ensured. Now the level of organisation goes down. And when the government's answer to this is to lift the decision of the Great Government to find measures to increase the degree of organisation, then the government abdicates in tripartite cooperation. For the government, the most important thing is to recognise the unorganised working life. For the Workers' Party, that's the opposite. The most important thing is to recognise the importance of organised labour for development in Norway: that it has ensured high employment, lack of conflict and the development of the welfare society in Norway. Therefore, the Workers' Party proposes to double the trade-union deduction for all, as one of several measures to strengthen the degree of organisation. Last week we got a glimpse into a world we don't know so well. TV 2's new series of documentaries "Norway behind the façade" has been with the a-krim centre in Oslo for actions. There we saw a brackish ridge with 400 rooms in the Groruddalen. Each resident paid more than NOK 5000 to get hold of the head – 2 million. kr right in the landlord's pocket. Later they visited a building regulated for storing cabbage, but there was no cabbage in the building – it was obvious that there were people living and staying at that address. Common to all residents was that they were people working in Norway. For those who live by controlling this work life, there was no surprise that TV 2 found in these people's storage facilities. For them, such revelations are the rule, not the exception. That obligates us. We cannot sit still and watch that we cannot stop the crime of working life in Norway, and we must acknowledge that it is not done enough. One step along the way would have been to increase the allocation to the Labour Inspectorate, so that they could have carried out more supervision. What has happened is that there have been 4,500 fewer inspections in four years. The answer is more control, more follow-up and more stringent sanctions. But there will be fewer policies that benefit ordinary people when the government's own ideological and dogmatic cut project ABE reform becomes more important than everyday life for people who live and work in Norway. In the Workers' Party, we propose in our alternative state budget a commitment to the fight against labour-life crime. We strengthen the agencies that can take the basements that exploit ordinary workers. We want to increase the number of checks on Norwegian workplaces, and we want to reduce the number of breaches of the Work Environment Act. For us, this struggle is not over until no one is exploited in the Norwegian labour market. Too many people are out of work in Norway today. The employment rate is 4 pst. lower than at the same time in 2008 and the proportion of men aged 25 to 54 falls. There's a lot of talk about sustainability for the welfare state among government mercenaries, and the answer is usually cut in the welfare state. The working party wants a different development. We don't think the future of the welfare state is in reducing it. The future is to ensure that even more people enter or return to work. That is why the Labour Party proposes a reform of competence. We need to ensure that everyone has the necessary skills to get into or get out of work. We want to strengthen the follow-up of young people who have come to social benefits. We don't cut the redundancy money. Because we don't agree with the government that ordinary people are motivated by getting less, while those who have the most are motivated by getting more. We believe that follow-up, help and competence is what is needed to get everyone out of work. We're all affected by what's going to be the biggest scandal in the government in Norway. Many have been unjustly convicted in social security because the law has been misinterpreted. We hear stories about Nav employees who are tied up on their hands and feet because they lack time and space to find sensible solutions for the users. One of the Nav trustees has described his job in Nav as follows: ‘I have gone from professional to manufacturing. As far as possible, it is most important to take decisions. There shall be 8,5 decisions per day. Numbers, not subjects, are presented during meetings.» We can't have a system that will meet people in any of the most difficult situations in life, where the focus is to produce numbers, not solutions. We can't have a service that makes it more difficult for people in vulnerable situations. The system can never be more important than individuals. We're going to build a system that takes care of the individuals who need help in the Nav system. That is why we have proposed what we need, a trust reform in the public sector, where we put away the ideas behind New Public Management, lift up the profession, and allow the employees to be professionals to take care of those who need help and support in our welfare society. The Labour Party's proposal for a government budget would mean that more people get into work, make sure that more of those who need help in difficult situations get it, and give people most of the time a better everyday life. Finally, I would like to address the proposals that the Workers' Party has promoted alone or with others. And then I hope that it will help us to vote for the Roman number decisions that do not affect the size of the framework, so that we can express what is the political will in this room, and that we are not stopped by any bureaucratic rules that came a few hours ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2678	The representative, Rigmor Aasrud, has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2685	We know that a large part of the strong increase in disability benefits for young people is due to the fact that more people now live with serious malformations that are incompatible with measures for inclusion in the labour market. Of course, these must be guaranteed economic security; it is the welfare state at its best. However, there are very many people who have been served with job redeployment or with a view to just including them in normal working life, even if they have special needs. On the right, the Workers' Party's expressed concern about the increasing number of young people on disability grounds is shared. Therefore, we think it is a bit special that the Workers' Party wants young people with developmental disabilities or special needs to be automatically granted disability benefits through a seamless transition from secondary school to permanent work without other measures being assessed. There won't be fewer young people at the disadvantage of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2692	It's quite true that there won't be fewer young people at the disadvantage of a seamless transition, but it's important in the transition from high school, where you have close follow-up and organization, which is quite good for a lot of people, not to get into a Nav system where you're put on for a very long time, as we see that a lot of young people are doing today. In fact, it is better to get a job security, a benefit insurance, which allows you to move on in life and into the organized workplaces of these young people. There I believe this government is failing. There is not enough room for action; there is not enough focus on getting neither young people nor older people who need job opportunities out of work. There the government should have been much stronger, and one should have voted in favour of the proposal that we have promoted, where at least we protect the VTA sites from being exposed to competition by others.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2699	We have no time to lose, said the Vice President of the Workers' Party, Hadia Tajik, in 2017, when she also proposed halving the AAP scheme. This government did not do that, but we have made reasonable and correct adjustments, which are rather more moderate than the Workers' Party Vice President himself suggested. My main question to the representative is about special advantages for refugees. For the representative of Rigmor Aasrud and the Workers' Party, it is desirable for refugees to have better arrangements than for the Nordics, for a Norwegian who may have worked for five to six years abroad, who will return home and then face an accident, to have much worse arrangements than a refugee. Where is the justice in that? Why is the Labour Party against having one set of rules, which treats everyone equally in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2706	That's because we look at people a little bit differently. If you have lived abroad as a Norwegian, you have earned pension entitlements where you are. A refugee – and now I have just registered that the government will pick up 600 pieces from Rwanda – comes without anything in the luggage. They don't have a pension certificate and need a decent economy when they get to Norway. I also think that the government parties should think about that. And the living requirement that is now being changed makes people just stand still more out of work. You come to Norway without any ballast and you have to go for five years before you can get into the system of redundancy payments, which is an important way – at least according to the intention of redundancy money – to get into the labour market. You should not be allowed to come there until after five years. It makes no sense to keep people out of the possibility of getting their own work.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2711	The Labour Party accepted both the market economy and private ownership in – approximately – 1927. At the same time, the Workers' Party was very clear that the Storting, i.e. the elected people, was to govern the market economy, i.e. the mixed economy, and was to govern the content of private property, i.e. property rights with rights and obligations. The main purpose was not for workers to hold hands; capital forces had to be governed. The centre party is working to replace uncontrolled labour immigration with controlled labour immigration, i.e. to control capital forces more stringently in order to ensure a well-organised working life for all. What is my question is: How will the Workers' Party now manage the labour market more broadly in order to ensure a well-organised working life that provides security for family life?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2718	We agree that it is important that we have a well-organised working life in Norway. This is why we need to take action against employers who are taking advantage of the labour that comes to Norway. I think that's quite important, and I hope that the Center Party will also be with us on: working so that those who break the law, those who exploit people, will not be allowed to continue the business they do. That is why we need to put in place more work centres, work centres, which make sure to take out the employers who do things that they shouldn't do. I think that's important in the future. That we have an exchange of labour between Norway and the rest of the world, I think it's right. We have benefited from this in times when we have had a shortage of labour in Norway. We will continue to do so, but then we will have to ensure that those who come to Norway get the pay and working conditions that they will have. It's the most important task in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2726	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2731	Following the presentation of the draft budget, it became known that since 2012, the Employment and Welfare Act has had an incorrect interpretation and practice of the right to take sick pay, redundancy benefits and care allowances to other EEA countries. This has had a major impact on those who have suffered unfair demands and punishments. The first priority is, of course, to correct the injustices they have suffered, and the repayments to those involved are already in progress. Nav has put in place a comprehensive work to go through all cases back to 2012 to find out where they may have been wrong, who is entitled to compensation, and to follow up those who have received an improper refund claim. In order not to have an impact on the ordinary operation of the State of Employment and Welfare, it is proposed to increase the appropriations both for the State of Labour and Welfare and for the State of Social Security. The payment of lost social benefits will be made on an ongoing basis and additional costs in 2020 will be managed in the context of the revised national budget. I also have to clarify here what I think is an incursion. Under the Chapter on Social Security, the budget is further increased by 2.4 million. kr in 2020, but this is already in Prop. 1 S for 2019-2020 and is not part of the additional proposal. It's a good conservative goal that we leave a better society to those who come after us. We have an obligation to change to preserve – important values that bind us together as individuals, families and as a society. There is also the desire to ensure the sustainability of the welfare state, so that not all we have achieved as a society through generations will only benefit one generation. We know that today, young people have to work more and work longer to get the same pension rights that we have. Already in the 2013 report of the Labour Party Finance Minister, Sigbjørn Johnsen, stated that if we continue today’s work patterns and welfare systems, we need to increase revenue or cut expenditure because there may be a significant need for public budgets to be covered over time. In the next ten years, oil industry revenue will decline, while the number of older people outside the labour market is rising. The main dividing line in Norwegian policy is now between the parties that will expand and erode today's benefits and arrangements, regardless of how they work, and the reasons for their action, and the parties that are responsible for making the necessary changes to ensure that both current and future generations have the welfare they require. The best way to hedge the welfare state is to adjust, modify or eliminate benefits and arrangements when it appears that they either do not work after intention, have been replaced over time by other benefits or services, or have lost their function. This increases the welfare state’s ability to take care of those who need it the most. It is unsocial to maintain or extend arrangements that are not functioning or no longer relevant, as this not only weakens the economic foundations of the welfare country but also weakens the quality and content of the assistance that the welfare country intends to provide. I think the future will show that the Right stood on the right side in the defense of a welfare state that needs to be changed in order to be a lot for those who need it the most. It is not the sum of social benefits adopted by the Stortinget that makes Norway a warmer society, but how many we are able to include in small and large communities. The Community must strengthen the individual through good distribution, inclusion and opportunities for all. It's going well in the Norwegian economy. New jobs are created in urban and rural areas, unemployment is falling and employment is increasing. I could continue there with how the government builds the country for the future, and that new jobs are created every day, mainly in the private sector. But maybe we can get a little blurred by the macro image, because the macro image of Norway is good. So when the Workers' Party chose part-time as one of its election campaigns, it went a little automatic for my own part to reverse that under this government the proportion goes down in part-time – because it does – and that it especially applies to young women with children. It's a pleasure. But even though the proportion of part-time has fallen from 42 to 37 pst. during today's government, it does little to help the nurse who is stuck in involuntary part-time, in particular when the Right is clear that permanent, entire positions are the general rule in working life. That's why I became curious when I saw an entry on TV 2 where the workers' party's vice-leaders visited a nursing home in Arendal. There they got several full, regular jobs because they used the option of 12.5 hours of long shifts, which made the tour go up. However, this had to be approved by the trade unions in the past centrally, how many were refused. With the changes the government made in the Working Environment Act in 2015, which the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre voted against, it is now easier to reach agreements locally and that more people are offered full time. The goal is a well-organised and family-friendly working life. That's what we get when we open up flexible solutions and trust the parties locally. We get that with this government's policy. Speaking of working life: good and constructive tripartite cooperation is a prerequisite for the green shift and the transitions Norway is going through in the future. The green shift will not happen without everyone in it. Norwegian industry and trade union workers are sitting on the conversion key, and together we are going to find a way to turn it, so that we open the door to new opportunities for everyone. Then we need both a robust welfare state that can mitigate the consequences of sudden changes in the short term, and a competence reform that equips Norway as a whole, so that we can realise the possibilities of transitions in the long term. It has become easier to combine a letter with a job. We have strengthened the skills of employees, made it easier for adults to get support for education through the Loan Fund, to mention something. Together with the social partners, there is now a sectoral programme for vulnerable industries, where the government prioritises training and continuing training for low-skilled and skilled workers in the municipal care sector and for the industrial and construction industries for the first time. We do not fund money when we can sharpen and increase efforts in the reform of competences Learn all our life in cooperation with the parties, so that no one goes out to date and more can be in work anymore. The fight against labour-life crime is a fight for workers' rights, a serious Norwegian business, safe Norwegian jobs and the financing of our welfare state. That's why it's very gratifying that we see results from the government's efforts to combat the crime of working life, which we now see as flattened. The authorities consider that activities are more visible than before and studies show that there is now a higher risk of detection than before. That's good, but I'm sure it'll get better. The best protection of the market economy is decent pay and working conditions, both nationally and through the EEA Agreement, and the hard reduction and active fight against labour crime. Nevertheless, we must remember that in the pursuit of the unprofessional we do not at the same time make it harder to be serious. For strict accommodation rules, reversal of changes in the Working Environment Act of 2015 and raising the level of contract at work are an expression of distrust in a mainly tidy and well-organised working life, where nine out of ten thrive on work. To be honest, I don't think Norwegian business is afraid enough of a red-green alternative with Red as a precursor. Higher taxes will make it more expensive to create the jobs we need to get an inclusive and fair green shift. Stricter regulation will suffocate growth, and the clean-up action the Workers' Party has announced, or threatened with, could turn it into tidy industries that are affected when everyone is being punished for what a few do. When we talk about inclusion in working life, there must be a working life to be included in. Ensuring a sustainable welfare society is continuous work. We are implementing the pension reform, so that more people can stand longer in work. We're doing a high school and a job market, so that students learn more, less falls off, and that no one should feel that they're going out on date. We carry out an inclusion process, which allows more people to be included in the labour market. Unemployment goes down, and employment goes up, and we're going to spend the good time including more. We organize so that everyone can contribute what they can. Norway is a rich country, but we are never so rich that we can afford to waste with people's abilities and competences. Even though a lot goes well, there's a lot of mess and a lot that can be done better. We're always going to close holes in which people stumble, lower thresholds for participation and lift up those who need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2782	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2787	It's an expression that says, show me your friends, and I'll tell you who you are. In the period that the Right has run, we've seen who they're friends with: the millionaires. People who are already watering in the cave have spent even more money after themselves. And who is the one who has to pay for this? Yes, ordinary workers and children. It's become more expensive to commute, it's become more expensive kindergartens, and it's cut in glasses – to mention something. This isn't just unfair, it's directly petty. The Labour Party wants a society with less differences, where they take the heaviest burden and where we support the family. Is the representative Heidi Nordby Lunde happy that the differences in Norway are increasing?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2794	Norway is still one of the countries in the world where the differences are least, and I am pleased about that. But it is quite right that the Right in Government has changed the benefits and arrangements that have been unfair, that have been out of date or designed in such a way that it has been unfair. Those who have received the arrangements, I can understand the response, but it does not make any mistake to change them. For example, we keep glasses for children, but I notice that the Workers' Party obviously believes that there should not be a roof. We believe that it is more social to treat sick with the same need than to distribute some groups, as the Labour Party obviously wants. And we do this at the same time as more people get health care faster, health cows go down, tax levels as well, child welfare has increased, and we have introduced free core time in kindergarten. So there is obviously no contradiction between tax relief and welfare, as the Workers' Party believes – but it was when the Workers' Party ruled.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2799	The centre party has an ongoing critical view of welfare performance. That's absolutely necessary. In order to ensure that they are perceived to be fair, we must constantly change, and we must always target better. Fortunately, the sense of justice in Norwegian society is still great, and that is an important, important value to take care of. So we have to make sure that the welfare performance works well and that we can give priority to the weakest. The government is in conflict with the tightening up of the government. They reduce the minimum benefit on redundancy benefits by DKK 70 000 for new persons under 25 years of age, liquidate the new disability supplement and increase the requirement for living in the population’s pension for refugees. The government says that this will lead to more social support – social support paid by municipalities. It's the last security network. The progress party disagreed in its reply to me instead. Does the Right agree that social support will increase?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2806	First, I'm glad that the Center Party recognises the need to change to preserve the welfare state and well-being we have, but I'm very sorry that they don't see the need to change in redundancy money, which so many have determined that it doesn't work properly. After the changes in 2018, we have now received the facts on the table. Checked by actual.no it turns out that more people get into work now than it did before, and more people are also cleared up faster for disability. There is no point in keeping sick people as far as possible involved in temporary benefits when they are required and what they are entitled to. At the same time, there are also more people who have gone out in social assistance and are going out to the municipalities – who have been strengthened in their free budgets and who are going to give priority to the weakest in society. And I react to the fact that you always start talking about cuts in the benefits or services of the population instead of prioritizing in other ways when we talk about the local government budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2813	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2818	Norway is currently part of the EU labour market. It took place during the implementation of the EEA Agreement from 1 January 1994. Since the EU is an economic union and not a political union, this labour market is not governed by elected representatives at EU level. The EU enlargements to the east in 2004 and 2007 suggested that Eastern European leaders compete in Western Europe with their competitive advantage of low-cost labour. This has also occurred to a large extent, which has had a major impact on the Norwegian labour market and the Norwegian labour market. Eastern European youth, many in short-term contracts, do a good job, while being willing to work for pay and working conditions that are lower than what is needed to pay the costs when living in the high-cost country of Norway. Professionals in different sectors are affected differently, but more and more industries are experiencing an increasingly unorganised working life with extensive social dumping and labour-life crime. We recently have Dagbladet's revelations in the documentary "Fishy Business" on fish processing farms in North Norway. The centre party is working to replace uncontrolled labour immigration from the EU outside the Nordic region with controlled labour immigration provided by the Stortinget. This is in line with some of the best in the historical governance of capital forces of the Central Party and the Workers' Party to prevent workers from holding hands. The labour market must be governed by elected representatives in order to ensure a well-organised working life with Norwegian wage and working conditions. Today’s EU stands in a tight grip when it has established an economic union with a single currency, the euro, while not having the power to establish a political union, namely a common social and economic policy within the EU. This was the vision of former President Jacques Delors of the European Commission. The reasons why the EU is unable to implement this vision, which in practice involves the establishment of the United States of Europe, are historically historic, creating widespread popular counter-power. Within the EU it is not a common language for democratic change, as it is in the United States. This system error, which creates a more unsafe working life, is leading to increasing social and political unrest in several EU countries. The sister parties of the Labour Party within the EU are in great difficulty, with falling disintegration. For the Centre Party, a well-organised working life is a prerequisite for a safe family life. We therefore need to work systematically to replace today's uncontrolled labour immigration with controlled labour immigration. Switzerland is a country where there is a broad disintegration of controlled labour immigration among both elected persons, employers and employees. Otherwise, the income deduction for paid trade union quota is increased by 10 pst. in the general draft budget of the Centre Party. The centre party opposes Norwegian participation in the European Labour Market Authority, ELA. The background is that this is the first step on the way to establishing a supranational labour market authority that will involve downward pressure, with a weakening of Norwegian labour environment legislation and collective bargaining agreements. Today's uncontrolled labour immigration has very negative consequences, not least for young people who have weak links with the labour market because they do not have the full capacity to work. It is my claim that today's government has not taken into account the consequences of this fact through increased financial allocations to facilitate both the employee and the employer. The participation of these young people in the labour market with the capacity to work they can provide, and thus to help build a better Norway, requires a strong increase in, for example: the organisation of disability, temporary and permanent wage subsidies for people with disabilities. These are areas that the Centre Party will need to give even greater priority to the future. The Centre Party is working to amend the Working Environment Act, so that rents from temporary employment companies that currently replace permanent employment are replaced by permanent employees in temporary employment agencies that are rented out to cover temporary employment agencies, pursuant to Section 14-9(b) of the Labour Environment Act. The Government must also proceed as soon as possible to the Grand Duchy with changes in the Labour Environment Act that allow the Labour Inspectorate to follow up current provisions on temporary work – the last with amendments that took effect from 1 January 2019. [[2]] As early as spring 2018, the centre party proposed concrete legislative changes to ensure this, which would apply from 1 January 2019. The centre party stands by these legislative changes, which are otherwise in line with what the government has now heard. The draft budget of the Centre Party means an increase in the number of inspectors in the Labour Inspectorate by 90 year-olds. The number of supervision has been reduced by 25 pst. from 2015 to 2018, and the government’s draft budget will not increase the number of supervision. Following the assessment of the Centre Party, there must be a real risk of occupational crime being addressed through several out-of-office checks. The Centre Party also promotes the following loose proposals for the reorganisation of the Labour Inspectorate: ‘The Government is asked to refer the matter to the Storting for the reorganisation of the Labour Inspectorate, which will apply from 1 January 2020. The reorganisation means that the management of the different supervisory compartments is centralised, there is no local management. This will provide more remote management, less cooperation across sections and more travel. This leads to increased costs for the establishment. The number of inspections could fall sharply in the future. The statement must document how this reorganisation will strengthen the main supervisory and control tasks of the Labour Inspectorate.’ On the part of the government parties, it is said that reorganization is the responsibility of the head of the institution. No, this is such a big change that has such a big impact on the Biggest's policy that it has to be presented to the Biggest. Nav is exposed to a legal scandal. The essence of the legal scandal is that, in the event of a conflict, the EEA Agreement infringes Norwegian social security legislation, which neither authorities nor courts have taken note of. This was thoroughly addressed in the Report. St. 40 for 2016–2017 Exports of Norwegian welfare benefits, which were part of the State Council on 16 June 2017. It was and is alarming that the government parties and the Workers' Party could not be included in the following note in the corresponding Innst. 108 S for 2017-2018, released on 6 February 2018: ‘The members of the Committee of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party indicate that the provisions of the international agreements interfere with the national legislation and even go ahead of it if there is a contradiction between the two sets of rules.’ This reality, on which the government parties could not sign, is a weakness that I made clear in the major debate on 1 March 2018. This weakness is now the core of the legal scandal. This legal scandal is now in the control committee, which needs to clarify the responsibilities behind the scandal. A separate review committee led by Professor Finn Arnesen is part of a thorough and important work that needs to be carried out. Moreover, this legal scandal will have to have consequences for future legislation and follow-up in Nav. I expect it to happen through a separate case to Stortinget. The scandal has shown that the requirements imposed must be the same for all, both those who have stayed in Norway and those who have stayed in an EEA country. The scandal relates to temporary benefits that give rights and obligations. The benefits shall provide a basis for a decent life in Norway and are therefore among the best in the EEA territory. The centre party is calling about our social security benefits, which are essential for people who cannot obtain labour income to be given a worthwhile life. The benefits require some of the individual beneficiaries and require public compliance — i.e. rights and obligations. The scandal shows that we need to clarify social security obligations, which will also require closer and better follow-up from Nav professionals. The entire Nav organisational model needs to be reviewed to ensure that the rights and obligations of those receiving temporary benefits are realised. The merger of the municipal social offices and the state employment services and social security offices was presented with great skill by the government council Bjarne Håkon Hanssen as the Nav reform with one door to people. The State of Employment and Welfare was established on 1 July 2006. The realization of one door in was left after only a few years, as a result of enormous problems. This was a consequence of poor preparation of the Nav reform and reinforced the establishment of specialised departments in Nav. This was later continued with the Channel Strategy. At the same time, an important and necessary digitisation of applications and decisions was introduced, but now digitisation has gone so far that the weakest groups, who need personal contact with the municipal social service, are given very poor opportunity to meet professionals to assist them. Not least, this youth suffers from drug and psychiatry problems. It is therefore important that we have a review of the opening hours of the Nav offices, and I would urge all the rapporteurs to address this. Otherwise, I take up the proposal of the Centre Party in the two settings we are currently considering.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2862	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2869	For or against the EEA Agreement, there is a need for labour immigration. The representative Lundtigen himself spoke a lot about the need to regulate labour immigration. We fully agree on that. And we share very much in the proposals we agree on in the budget. What I find strange, however, is that Lundtigen and the Zenterpartie are not willing to participate in and regulate labour immigration well enough. We have put forward proposals that the Central Party has voted against, including: to increase access to average working time. It's against the Center Party, which would have violently cleaned up the unregulated immigration of labour. We have proposed that more of the welfare production be run autonomously, without competitive outsourcing. We discussed that last week. The centre party voted against. If the Central Party is serious about the need to regulate labour immigration, why is the Central Party not involved in the proposals that the Labour Party is promoting to clean up once and for all?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2875	First of all, I don't think we can clean up once and for all. There has to be a dynamic cleaning-up, there has to be a cleaning-up every session in Stortinget, because today we have a number of employers who are taking advantage of loopholes in the law at all times. That's answer one. With regard to what was mentioned here, on the average calculation of working time and welfare production by self-employed persons, many proposals have been made in this Chamber. The center party is a member of what the representative says here, and we're going to have an orderly relationship within what is possible in our law, and we're going beyond that and we're also regulating in the big lines.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2880	The point of this exercise with alternative budgets is that one should be able to show the proposals of the various parties for priorities and impacts. That exercise becomes difficult when some parties choose to budget with what can be called monopoly money. In the Central Party's alternative budget, they cut 2 billion. kr in EEA funds. This is a negotiated contribution, which cannot be reduced on its own merits. They're making 50 million. kr as a result of lower arrivals of asylum, which, of course, the centre party cannot control. They cut 1 billion. kr in consulting, which is mainly about digitisation and efficiency in the public sector, while allegedly magically finding SEK 1.7 billion. kr to cut in red tape, despite the fact that the Central Party is just the party that opposes all the government's efficiency improvement measures. So my question to Mr Lundtigen's representative is simply: can we take seriously the Central Party's alternative budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2885	When the government talks about efficiency measures, there are structural changes. Government does not address what is the biggest challenge in the public sector, namely organisational culture and management. They don't go into what's most important, that public employees in the first line, whether they're in Nav, in school or in the nursing home, get more responsibility and more influence. That's what the Central Party's main response to the switchover in the public sector. Greater responsibilities and powers must be given to professionals, because they provide more. In the case of the There is so much use of consultants today for things that do not reasonably need to be investigated, that there should have been large lines of action set over many measures many, many years ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2892	The representative of Lundtigen was clear on which international cooperation and organisations he opposed, but in the budget we are dealing with, the Senterpartiet commits itself to transferring authority to the UN over Norwegian refugee policy, that they should be able to determine the number of Norway receiving. In the past, the representative Lundtigen has also opened up in order to increase reception in Norway to up to 100000. He has also been clear on how to finance it, and it was cutting the salary of nurses and teachers. The representative, Lundtigen, has also made it clear that he aims to liberalise and change the policy of the Centre Party in order to become much more liberal in immigration and integration policy. We see in the budget we are discussing here today that the Central Party wants refugees to have special benefits in terms of popular security. Is this a breakthrough for the representative Lundteg – has his new line with a more liberal policy in the field of immigration and integration won through?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2899	Unlike the representatives of the Progress Party, I have been to Lésvos and met the refugees. I have met the fact that the external borders of Schengen collapsed, met the fact that there was no border control, met the fact that there was a great influx into Norway, and I explained what challenges it posed. The centre party and I are strong supporters of the UN in ensuring the reception of refugees on an international basis. It stands as a pillar of the Central Party's policy, and it is firmly attached. The centre party is not for any liberal immigration policy. We are in favour of a controlled immigration policy, whether it concerns refugees or jobseekers. The centre party is the strongest trailer of the national State, a national State which is no better than other national States, a national State which is not seaworthy enough. So we're for border control.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2906	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2911	We in SV work for a society with less differences where welfare should be a real security network that captures us when life doesn't go all the way. Today, we have a new state of Norwegian politics, where the Left and Christian People's Party have been fully involved in a line that the Right and the Advance Party have previously stood for. It's about normalizing a pretty clean cut policy, which always frames the hardest of those who need the most support, whether it's outsourcing, follow-up and clarification to get to work, or it's about children who need glasses to see properly. We in the SV are totally different in this policy, and it shows how different one looks not only at welfare policy but also at economic policy in general. The government hides the cut-off policy behind a sentence to make the welfare state more resilient, while we in SV do not at all think it is resilient to cut back on support schemes that were put in place in order for everyone to be as effective as possible, regardless of whether one has good health or not. It is serious when the plurality of the Stortinget, including the Left and Christian People's Party, is now provoking a policy they call the path towards a resilient welfare state, but which is, in reality, a pure policy of cutbacks. I think that some of the reasons for this are the perspective messages that have been presented, where the entire underlying statement is eternally increasing purchasing power and stamina at the tax level, and not how we're going to ensure that everyone still has equal opportunities, regardless of the starting point at which one was born. Having security in the job and knowing that you have rights at work and security around the job is an obligation to be able to perform the most effectively. But it's not like that today. Development is in the wrong direction. We see that the hiring and staffing agency is expanding to more and more parts of the Norwegian labour market. This has to turn around. This helps to create greater class distinctions. We are now facing a climate crisis, but we can also call it a welfare crisis. We know that this government has thrown thousands of sick people out of popular fear and into poverty and social support. The tightening of the work clearance system has led to the Norwegian insurance network being damaged. It is very serious that the government will now take a large part of the benefits from young people receiving unemployment benefits. These are the incomes of young people who are the framework of disease, their potential for a self-sustaining and dignified life depends on politicians seeing their needs. Young people with disabilities and chronic illness who receive redundancy money must secure a safe and worthwhile economy, while getting good, close and correct follow-up from Nav. From next year, young sick people will become poorer, and it will affect their social budgets, as so much as others. Here I can also mention the cuts in a bus toll and cut in the children's supplement to empty. This was now quite precarious for the local economy. It would be better to adopt SV's alternative state budget. Then we could reverse these developments, that the differences are increasing, and we're getting an increasingly fragmented and unsafe working life. So by doing that, I'm making the suggestions SV says on its own in the setting of case number. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2930	The representative Solfrid Lerbreck has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2937	The club manager at one of Norway’s largest workshop clubs arranges for less dense links between Norway’s largest employee organisation and the Workers’ Party. The club manager at Kværner in Verdal believes that the LO should be more free and independent of the Workers' Party. The cooperation of the LO and the Workers' Party is decided by the LO Congress every four years. It is often adopted unanimously or by an overwhelming majority. The right has repeatedly called for this to be an unfortunate link, and recalls that the vast majority of employee organisations are party-politically neutral. Does the representative consider it reasonable, regardless of what the majority of the LO Congress believes, that the LO is depriving itself of the Workers' Party, and does the representative believe that this could lead to a higher degree of organisation?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2944	In some ways I'll say I believe it. At the same time, I understand very well that the large amount of organized workers, who are organized in LO, supports the party on the left, which is more than a party on the right-hand side, which is responsible for the same policy as they stand for. It is clear that LO has long and dense historical ties to the Labour Party. That's the way it always is, and that's probably how it always comes to be. I understand that to some extent as well. One might, for example: look at Denmark and Sweden, where this has to some extent resolved more. It has, among other things, led to a lower level of organisation, which is unfortunate.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2949	I appreciate your open answer, but I wonder if you think it's the right principle that trade unions should be politically neutral, regardless of what you think will happen in the future, to recruit.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2955	The President would like to remind the representative that the speech should be corrected by the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2960	Thank you. The representative should remember that in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2965	No, I don't think it's the right principle that trade unions should be politically neutral. I understand very, very well that trade unionists support and work for the parties and politicians who are mostly some of their policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2970	A hallmark of SV's alternative budget and policy is that one is to spend money on the state budget for everything and everyone, but at the same time is skeptical of everything that contributes money into the state budget, such as oil and gas industries, within which the West is strong, and for example. private ownership throughout the country. In addition, SV proposes in its option to try out the six-hour day, and that at a time when we need labour, especially in the health and elderly care sector. My question to SV is: Does SV believe that the economy with a six-hour working day, no to business and yes to everything that costs money, will go on a trip?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2977	If you want to talk about our policy like that, yes. I am responsible for our policies, including: a more environmentally friendly industrial policy, which will have some impact on oil policy. I believe in a policy whereby workers contribute to increasing productivity and profitability through working hours. And I believe in a policy where we use more of the money in common, instead of being on private hands and a priority to increase purchasing power.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2982	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e2987	8 hours of work, 8 hours of free time, 8 hours of sleep – the demands of the workers in the struggle for a statutory normal working day of 8 hours in Oslo 1917. Tripartite cooperation, which grew up in the wake of an increasing awareness of the importance of regulated labour relations, has been increasingly balanced since the end of the 1920s and confidence between the social partners and is a proponent of freedom, security and sustainable frameworks in Norwegian working life and the welfare society we enjoy. The Norwegian model is also a decisive competitive advantage for Norwegian industry and business when it comes to competing with companies that offer completely different wages and working conditions. At the same time, change and structural changes lead to an increasing group of people falling outside the traditional organisation of Norwegian working life. Volunteers and self-employed people experience that a weaker security network provides inadequate justice. The rights of workers in Norway cannot only be based on those added to well-established enterprises. We also need those who work in or run small businesses, and they work with us. For this reason, after six years of budgetary power to the Left, it is nice to say that the social rights of maternity leave and sick leave are monthly strengthened for self-employed people. Although there is often an impression of something else, employment policy in Norway is largely a consensus. That's very good. To take some examples: From today's blue-green government platform: ‘Working must always pay off so that the individual’s ability to work can contribute both to their own development and to the benefits of society. More people have to work longer.’ From the Red-Green Government platform: ‘It is essential to ensure increased professional participation from groups that are not currently participating in the labour market. It is worth working.’ [[...]] From blue-green platform: ‘The Government’s objective is a Norwegian working life with both security and flexibility for employees, serious employers and effective tripartite cooperation. ‘... From red-green platform: ‘close cooperation between the social partners and public authorities provides the basis for a well-functioning working life’. This is how I could have continued. The dilemma of welfare policy is, on the one hand, to ensure a social security network that takes care of those who, for different reasons and for shorter or longer periods of time, are unable to participate in the labour market. On the other hand, the social security network is entirely dependent on the widest possible participation in the labour market. There is an understanding across political dividing lines that this is necessary, and we should definitely work together to find good solutions to the challenges we face in the future. The main rule in Norwegian working life is and should be fixed throughout settings and well-regulated relationships. The opposite is organised labour-life crime, unprofessional actors, cynical waitresses that exploit people, that undermine Norwegian social structures and seem to distort competition. Therefore, the effort to counter labour-life crime is so important, precisely to ensure that all workers are free from abuse and coercion. Fortunately, the efforts of the four government parties to counter labour crime have resulted. According to the etats, the extent of work crime is no longer increasing. The companies also believe that the government is more visible than before, and the investigation shows that a person feels that the risk of being discovered is greater than before. Challenges associated with a safe and serious working life also extend beyond the Kingdom. Country boundaries are unknown in the chain. For this reason, I am very pleased that the government and the Prime Minister have taken initiatives against the EU to strengthen cooperation across countries. When the Left calls for more and more mandatory international cooperation, solidarity with exploitable workers is an important motivation. The Left budget and the three other government parties adopted today provide a good basis for further development of labour policy, welfare provision and further strengthening the fight against crime at work.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e3029	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e3034	The representative of Terje Breivik said that the 2020 budget was a good starting point for both working life and welfare systems. The government partner, Røres Nordby Lunde, said in his speech that it was unsocial to maintain non-relevant social security schemes, and that was perhaps why it was proposed in the budget to cut the social security benefits for children's goggles. But obviously the Left did not entirely agree with that. In any case, the representatives Raja and Grimstad showed up at home with one of the families that was hit hardest, and the Left has subsequently stated that they are very pleased that they have found a good solution in terms of support for glasses for children. For the rest of us, it is absolutely impossible to figure out how that system is now to be set up for the future, so my question to the representative Breivik is: Can Breivik guarantee that the family that visited Raja and Grimstad will retain the glasses they have today?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e3039	Thank you for the question, which comes from a representative I know as a representative who really works well on the issues. Nevertheless, I believe that I have allowed myself to quote from the joint remark that the government party has made on matters relating to spectacle support: ‘The majority indicates that the Government of Prop. 1 S proposes to introduce flat rates for the system of social security for children's glasses. [[2019-2020]] There has been a tripling of the costs of this scheme over the last ten years, and a review of the Employment and Welfare Directorate’s scheme showed, among other things, that there has been social support for disproportionately expensive glasses. The majority are concerned that children qualified for this scheme are to be given appropriate glasses and that the resources of the community are well used. [[...]] The majority point out that the introduction of rates applies from 1 March 2020 and expect the government to ensure, in good time before entry into force, that the guidelines also capture the need to cover the necessary expenditure on glasses for children with special needs.’;» In good Norwegian: All children who need glasses and who have received money support for now will also receive it in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e3049	The representative Breivik made a powerful settlement with the crime of working life, and that is very good. The representative said it was not increasing. I guess we have a little bit of an overview of that, because it's still taking new forms. I referred to Dagbladet's documentary "Fishy business", about the fish processing businesses in North Norway, where it is clear that it is the cat's game with the mouse, where the cat is the cellar and mouse the public floors. You get pretty sad when you read how this game is going on. My question is two-fold: will the representative Mr Breivik agree that we have more unannounced supervision from the Labour Inspectorate, for which our committee is responsible, and will the representative agree to clarify the legal and regulatory acts, so that the control authorities can take the cellars, so that they do not, as they are now, miss out because the law and regulations are too unclear?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e3057	The representative, Mr Breivik, will strongly stress that both myself and my party will continue to work hard to strengthen efforts to combat the crime of working life, such as so far. has resulted in seven new work-life crime centres and a significant strengthening of the Labour Inspectorate. Of course, we are open to discuss all the good measures to further strengthen such an important work, which I actually perceive that all the parties in this house are agreed on as having priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e3062	From 2020 onwards, refugees who come to Norway will have poorer possibilities for a safe retirement period, as the government will increase the demand for butid for a range of public spaces from three to five years. In 2017, Marianne Øren of the Left said about the proposal to move older and disabled refugees from old age and disability pensions to supplementary social benefits: ‘We find it difficult to see what the objective is, other than to create more bureaucracy and a weak social security network. Nor does the proposal to impose out-of-court obligations to allow refugees to benefit from important schemes such as: support to a single mother or father, sees the Left as being extraordinarily reasonable.’ Why will the Left weaken the social security network of the elderly with refugee status now?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e3072	First, I allowed myself to comment on the main post of the representative, where at the beginning she almost set new standards in strawberry argumentation. I think part of my answer is related to that. The claim is that this plurality, with the Left on the left, weakens welfare arrangements, the fight against social poverty, etc. What we have done in recent years is a systematic, long series of measures to strengthen efforts for those who need it the most, including refugees, and for integration and inclusion, among others. with the introduction of free core time in kindergarten for all children of two, three, four and five years of age from so-called low-income families. We also have increased income limits for low-income families, so we also meet a lot of new citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e3077	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e3082	In this case, it may be good to start by reminding you that Norway is a very good country to live in for most people. Nevertheless, we have challenges in both the short and the long term. These are labour market changes, demographic changes and changes in economic framework conditions. Therefore, it is good that we have a well-developed and comprehensive welfare society, sound state finances and strong democracy, high trust among people and reasonable control of the decisions taken – even if we have a topical issue that raises some questions. That's the way it should be for the future. We need to ensure that transitions, arrangements and welfare goods have a long-term perspective in which we try to distribute benefits and burdens. We want both social, environmental and economic sustainability, in line with the UN's sustainability objectives. The government's proposals for the State budget for 2020 have actually a good social profile. A number of schemes are strengthened, improved and targeted, but at the same time individual benefits are adapted. This is a necessary exercise in order to pursue a policy that ensures that the goods are passed on. The need for this will probably increase in the future, as an ageing population and fewer in pre-employment age, and it is not always necessary to become popular. It's going well in the Norwegian economy. New jobs are created in urban and rural areas. The objective is a safe and flexible labour market with low unemployment and high employment. This is essential to ensure the sustainability of the welfare society and to prevent exclusion. Activity in enterprises is high and labour is required. In three years, 130 000 more have been employed, three out of four new jobs have come in the private sector, and the registered unemployment rate is at the lowest level of over ten years. The whole country is taking part in the increase in employment. The most important thing for the individual, and for the country, is that as much as possible has a job to go to. Nevertheless, there are too many people who do not get the chance, and we are responsible for contributing to more people being qualified and included. Now we are focusing more on early work in kindergarten and school to equip young people for the future labour market. The government is proposing to escalate the efforts made in the effort. In 2019 it was 125 million. kr, which is continued and further reinforced by 50 million. by 2020, and by increasing the allocation of individual job support and labour assistance, efforts are stepped up in order to bring more people with reduced working capacity, mental or drug problems into line. Public and private business must contribute to this inclusion. This year's budget is the children's budget. Child protection is the single most important individual benefit for reducing the proportion of children in low-income families. The government increased the amount of child benefit for all children for the first time in 20 years, and now the government proposes to increase the amount of child benefit by DKK 300 per month for children up to the age of six. This results in an annual increase of NOK 3600, and the increase will also benefit social welfare recipients. Therefore, the government will increase the financial benefit for living for children aged 0 to 5 years with equivalent amounts, in addition to normal price adjustment. The government also proposes to grant 10 million. kr to kindergarten full-time. In addition, the commitment from the revised budget 2019 is continued with free core time. The government proposes to set aside 60 million. kr for a trial of leisure card schemes, in municipalities to test this for young people from 6 to 18 years of age. It will be very exciting to follow developments, where we give children good mastering experiences and leisure activities. It's a pure investment in the future. It is expensive to have small children, and therefore free core time in kindergarten is for the least important for those with low income. SFO is an important part of the work and can contribute to prevention, inclusion and integration and help working parents. There we have now introduced income graded parental payments, and for some free SFOs. Yes, it's a tight budget, and it's a tight budget for the Christian People's Party to be on. But the Christian People's Party wants to contribute to drawing the policy towards the centre, and our contribution is to have an extra view for the best of the children and for the family's everyday life and to provide a reasonable basis for living for all groups among us.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e3109	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e3114	I noticed in the last representative Tuskedal said, that the Christian People's Party will help to draw the policy towards the centre and place great emphasis on the basis of a good income and a good basis of life for individuals. Now it is such that the Christian People's Party was initially against the cuts in redundancy money. It was sacrificed on the altar of government cooperation. But the Christian People's Party has said that they will reconsider the tightening when they know more. And now we know more, because there's been evaluation reports from Nav that show that more people end up and go to social welfare or are out of income. The Christian People's Party has previously said in Stortinget that they will evaluate as soon as they have a basis for doing so. Now it's almost 1 January 2020. Then it has been two years since 1 January 2018. How much more contemplation time does the Christian People's Party need before they want to respond to whether they want to participate in a reversal?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e3121	Work clearance money is a complicated matter. The current system has worked for two years, so we have said that we will wait for the evaluations to come before we decide. And we're going to read that. The messages we get are being evaluated, and we're going to address to the government what we think it might be an opportunity to change. There are, in particular, exceptions that we can look at, and there can also be practices in Nav, so that disabled people are better informed that we are making a faster decision for everyone. For some of these to be clarified, we have demands – in that change for them under 25 years, there is a new system that is coming now – so we are looking to clarify the working capacity as soon as possible. We're going to work on it now in winter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e3126	The social political figure of the Christian People's Party now said that the budget had a good social profile. There were some benefits that needed to be adjusted in order to secure the benefits in the future, and that was not always the case. I heard no reservations in the post from the representative Tuskedal. It is said that while reducing the minimum benefits of redundancy benefits by DKK 70000 for new people under 25 years of age, the new disability supplement for new users is liquidated, for beneficiaries of redundancy benefits, and for refugees to be given increased living requirements. Does the Christian People’s Party really have no reservations about this? That's my simple question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e3133	When it comes to how we negotiated in government, it's clear that we negotiated across the political spectrum to be part of a government. As the representative, Mr Lundtigen, is probably aware, it is not always a party that gets through its primary policy. But that doesn't mean we haven't had our significant impact. Child welfare and the reductions in the price of SFO and kindergarten we've got in place are just examples of that. I can mention many other things that underline the social profile of the Christian People's Party. In the case of cut-offs, the representative points out in terms of job clearance, the Employment Committee has made the recommendation to them for less than 25 years. It is clear that in that group, there may be some people who benefit more from the change we are making now, and then we will consider continuously whether the action is working.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e3143	It's sad to see that the Christian People's Party is behind cuts to disadvantaged families and is not even able to protect the increased child-responsiveness of families with children under the age of six by refusing the municipalities to withdraw it. But I'm going to ask you something else, and it's disabled. The representative also mentioned inclusion in his post, and it is a good thing that most departments have scolded participation. During this week, the government has also presented an action plan on gender equality for people with disabilities without a timetable, just an outline of old proposals that do not take a single step forward for equality for people with disabilities, whether in working life or in society. I have to ask the representative of the Christian People's Party: what has he intended to say to the disabled who have pride in the Christian People's Party in these matters and believed that the Christian People's Party would put in place an action plan with binding deadlines?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e3152	The representative can be sure that the Christian People's Party will fight precisely for the disabled. I have to check the timing a little more carefully, how it is, but the inclusion due is valid, and we are fighting for it. Among other things, we have received 5 pst. that go into public institutions, and we also want to encourage companies to do this. We have funds and support schemes to enable companies to create jobs adapted to disabled people. It's very important to us. It concerns both the mental part and those who are physically disabled, and this of course Christian People's Party will follow up. I think it's a characteristic of our work, and we'll keep doing that, probably in the same way that SV is interested in.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e3157	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e3162	The proportion of people organised in Norwegian working life has fallen since 1992. Nevertheless, the civil society on their platform writes that they recognise that many workers choose to be unorganised. In response to this, Red was given the impression that the government had to make proposals to get more trade unionised, but this is not followed up by the government. Rather, it is now proposing in the budget to repeal the decision without having taken one single measure to get the proportion organised. We know that this is important to ensure small differences in Norway — it requires safe, regular jobs, a strong trade union movement and also a place for all who can work. We also need to have a stronger common safety net that takes care of everyone in a dignified way when, for various reasons, we cannot work. A lot of people have trouble getting a job. There are over 100 000 unemployed in Norway. But the government continues its cuts in labour market measures and social security benefits and believes that people who are out of work will only get to work if they are made poor enough. Red rates in place of skills and measures that enable more people to participate in the labour market, including: through several action sites. The Permitting Code is being attacked for the second consecutive year. It also shortens the period of leave in the fishing industry to 26 weeks. Red extends the maximum period of leave to 52 weeks for all industries. Forecasts now show increasing unemployment in the coming years. We want to prevent companies from cancelling employees in low-economic conditions that they are replacing with rent. We know that social dumping is a serious threat to the Norwegian model and to trade union movement. This puts life and health at risk to workers and makes serious companies and collective agreements uncompetitive, and the state loses billions of money that they should have been taxed. So now there has been a strong cut in the Labour Inspectorate’s appropriations. This has led to a sharp reduction in the number of inspectors and supervision, while at the same time monitoring has been given new tasks, including: shall enforce the rules for hiring out labour. Instead, red will designate funds for more supervision and also increase the level of fines for breach of the rules, so that the unprofessional companies really know it in the wallet if they break Norwegian laws and regulations. Our main ally in the fight against social dumping is to have a strong trade union movement out in the workplace. We will therefore increase in our budget the tax deduction of the trade union quota and also increase the appropriations for the trade union movement's own social dumping efforts. Together with two new a-krim centres, this will strengthen efforts for a clean working life. We see that those who receive redundancy payments have been hit hard by this government. The minimum benefit is now cut for recipients under 25 years of age and the new disability supplement is discontinued. Many have been on social assistance before they have been completed by Nav. Red will go in the opposite direction and will use considerable resources to ensure that those receiving the AAP keep the support until they are completed, and we will also reverse the cut to young AAP recipients in our alternative budget proposal. The Nav scandal is now a legitimate fear in many people that Nav, who have already scraped to the bone, with half a billion in the operating budgets since 2015, could have a breakdown in the proceedings. Now they're shifting resources to treating those affected by the scandal. Then there can be less follow-up and less clarification of the AAP issues. It can in turn cause thousands to be thrown out of the AAP scheme without having been clarified either for work or for disability within the deadline. Then, unfortunately, many of them end up in poverty, in social assistance. It would be a new betrayal from the government and also from Nav. Red therefore proposes today that the cleanup of the Nav scandal should not go beyond the work of clarifying the beneficiaries of the redundancy money, and we hope for broad support for that proposal. I'll bring it up to Red's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e3181	The representative Bears Moxnes has drawn up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e3188	It has been interesting to follow Red's development politically after they got back into the Storting. In the batch program they came up with, it was called banning all private businesses, all businesses. Now they've written a slightly adjusted version of it. They write the following: ‘In a socialist society, private ownership of the main means of production has been abolished. Both private ownership of means of production and markets could exist in less priority areas.» It's a little strange that one thinks that only one should have limited private ownership while a budgeter with increased corporation tax should enter the state from companies that do not want to exist. My question is whether the representative can explain what according to Red is ‘smaller priority areas’ where private companies are okay with excess and pay taxes to the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e3198	There has been a great deal of interest and debate on the topic of sausages in the last 24 hours in Stortinget. A sausage-bub could like to be in private possession under socialism, I think. Then there will be companies, big companies, but they will be democratically owned. Some may be owned by the state. We have many examples of this in Norway that we've been through history, with great luck. Others may have democratic ownership, where employees may have local ownership of the company. What we want to avoid is a development in which more and more power and wealth are gathering on ever fewer hands, also through ownership of businesses. Our proposal is really a huge change of democracy for Norway, where those who create the values also get their own businesses and not just employees and live with the fact that a few owners take the added value that others have created.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e3203	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e3208	Since the government’s draft budget was presented, it is known that since 2012, Nav has had the wrong interpretation and practice of the right to take health-related benefits with other EEA countries. It is important that the extra effort now put in place to clean up does not go beyond the ordinary operation of the Employment and Welfare Act and the Social Security Court. The Government has therefore proposed to increase the allocation by 45 million. kr. It's going well in the Norwegian economy. In the last year, almost 50,000 more have come to work, four out of five in the private sector. All counties experience job growth. Unemployment is at its lowest level since the financial crisis. The improvement in the labour market has led to more people who were previously outside, now entering the job. Increasing employment has largely come from those living in Norway, both Norwegian-born and immigrants with several years of residence. But still there are too many outsiders who want to work. Health challenges or lack of skills may prevent them from entering the job market. High demand for people offers good opportunities for inclusion. But that's not always enough. It takes an extra effort. This year we strengthened the inclusion dune by 125 million. kr. For 2020, work is intensified by a further 50 million. kr. Increased efforts on individual job support and functional assistance, wage subsidies or mentoring schemes will help to give more people with reduced working capacity, mental health problems and drug problems their place in the workplace. It is our work that ensures the welfare community. The more we can include, the better it is for the individual as well as for society. The Employment Committee has pointed out that today’s minimum rates provide a clearly higher income for young people under the age of 25 receiving the AAP than the average for those in the same age group who do not receive social security. We know that long social cycles increase the risk of permanent exclusion. Therefore, the government is following up the Employment Committee’s proposal to reduce aid. It is important to focus more on the possibilities than on the constraints whenever possible. Auxiliaries need to focus more on follow-up in order to increase their transition to work or education. Close and accurate follow-up is important in order to help them on their way there. The Government therefore proposes to use an amount equivalent to the savings to strengthen the follow-up of young AAP recipients. People who are allowed to stay in Norway need to be stimulated to get to work quickly or to engage in activities that can contribute to self-sufficiency. It is now proposed to treat refugees in the same way as others with a short period of residence in Norway, whether Norwegians with long stays abroad or those with collective protection in Norway. At the same time, it is proposed to extend the supplementary social security scheme to disabled refugees, precisely to ensure that they continue to receive a minimum level of social security benefits. The population-residence requirements are proposed to be raised from three to five years. The government will facilitate a serious, good and well-functioning working life, where it will address the crime of working life. The bet produces results. Reports suggest that the rate of crime at work no longer seems to increase. But we also know that unprofessional actors are creative and can find new ways to go. At that time, our supervisory authorities, the Labour Inspectorate and the Petroleum Authority, must also develop their methods and competences. To meet the challenges, the government will strengthen the budget with a total work package of 25 million. kr. Good tripartite cooperation is a supporter of Norwegian society. We have therefore also set up key stakeholder-groups to address employment challenges, increased organisational levels and forms of association, which are important to address both current and future challenges. Together, we need to find good solutions to the challenges we face, which will contribute to increased social and economic sustainability.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e3233	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e3238	The Labour Party has long thought that there is a need for large-scale cleaning in the Norwegian labour market. According to today’s press releases, there may also be a need for major cleaning in the drawers of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. Can the Council of State, based on what she now knows, assure the Storting that 45 million. kr, which we are going to adopt today, is enough to clean up the Nav root and ensure that those who have money for money get it?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e3246	There is no doubt that the matter we are now facing is very demanding. It's comprehensive. It implies that many people have been unfairly treated in both the administration, the social security system and the courts. I have notified from this pulpit that we must go through everything. We're going to get to the bottom of what's happened, and we're going to turn every rock. I have also told Stortinget that we must be prepared that we will also receive new information and new facts in the clean-up process. Clean-up's going well. People are now getting their money back. The legal aid system is now in place. The review committee is also working, and that's good. We have been concerned that this should not go beyond the ordinary operation of Nav, and have therefore proposed to grant 40 million. NOK 5 million. kr to Nav and the Social Security Court respectively for the purpose of carrying out this clean-up. To the extent that more money is needed, I am prepared to look at it. But then we have to get back to that in other budget proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e3253	Over the last few years, there's been a cut of 400 million. in the so-called ABE reform in the budgets of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. We know that those who work in the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs work mostly with people. There are very few other inputs. Can the Council of State explain how this cut has been taken out into her floor?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e3258	It's the agencies themselves that decide where to take this cut. It's at 0.5 pst. and a relatively modest cut when you see how private business and others actually have to contribute to change. Equally full, it is important to say that, among other things. The ICT effort to which the Storting has contributed has also freed up a lot of resources in recent years. Despite the ABE cut, there are more than 530 employees in Nav now than they have been in the past. Some of the gain reality has been taken out just this way. In addition, we also have important bets that help employees to have fewer clients to work with. IPS and individual job support projects include, for example: that employees have fewer people to work with, because we see that some Nav users need closer follow-up than they have before.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e3265	The Labour Inspectorate is responsible for ensuring that the Work Environment Act is complied with in the workplace. While the Labour Inspectorate has reported various kinds of follow-up and control to make it the most effective, it is known in practical working life, not least in serious employers, that there must be a real risk of getting unannounced supervision from the Labour Inspectorate. However, there is a sharp decrease in the number of supervision, 25 pst. from 2015 to 2018, from 18000 to 13500, and the budget of the year by the government does not increase the number of supervision. My question is this: will the State Council of the Labour Inspectorate's letter of assignment for 2020 require the number of unannounced supervision to be radically increased within vulnerable industries in order to increase the risk of occupational crime?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e3272	This government has put in place a number of important and effective measures to deal with unprofessional actors in the labour market. We've strengthened the a-krim bet by more than 100 million. kr. We have established seven a-krim centres, with closer cooperation between the operational departments. But then it's quite right that we've also been busy twisting some of the supervisory work, that we spend less time on supervision by the serious companies, that we spend more time on guidance of the serious ones, so that we can spend more time on the unprofessional part. In addition to the supervisory activity referred to by the representative Lundtigen, the supervision activities of the a-krim centres are also carried out. We see that the work produces results. Businesses now say that they themselves notice that there is a greater probability that you will be taken than it has been in the past, and that promises well. But that doesn't mean we can borrow back. On the contrary, we still need to intensify our efforts to deal with unprofessional actors in the labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e3279	After it was clear that the government would save 122 million. kr on cut in order of glasses of children, there have been very many who have responded. Eyepieces, optics and parents of disabled children already have warnings about the consequences of these cuts. There have been a lot of headlines in the media about how this proposal will hit especially hard those who need the most support. Representatives from government parties have repeatedly promised that young people with the greatest needs will be screened and will be able to meet the real needs they have. Cut at 122 million. The budget is still in place. Can the Council of State tell us how it has specifically intended to ensure that the young people who need perhaps the most expensive glasses will be sure of that?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e3284	Let me first say that the vast majority of children who wear glasses do not get the glasses covered by any public social welfare scheme. They are paid by the parents themselves. And then we have two glasses pay schemes, one that's for both kids and adults, which you don't make any changes to, and where there's no limit to what the glasses can cost. Then there is the second arrangement, glasses for children and young people under 18, which we are now proposing changes in, among other things. because it has been seen to have been covered with disproportionately expensive spectacles. That is why we are proposing standard rates. Then we've also said that we'll go through the system to see if there should be any exceptions for the few who might need it, who can't cover the glasses within the bets that exist. We have time to do that. This shall not happen until 1 March of next year. Everyone is still going to get support for glasses, but we want to get control of the cost.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e3291	Today’s paper shows that as early as June 2018, Nav asked for a legal assessment by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs of an EEA Social Security Court case and that the letter remained in a drawer. To the VG, Hauglie says she's so sorry. I have a simple question. It's whether Anniken Hauglie will repeat that complaint to the Stortinget, which she has given to the newspaper today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e3298	I'm a little uncertain about what the question has to do with the budget, but I can answer anyway. It is quite right that in connection with the cleanup that we are now doing in the Nav case, I have also said in this room that we are going to turn every stone, and we are going to get to the bottom of what has happened. I have also prepared the Stortinget that in that work we can get new information and new facts on the table. In that review I have asked to have all the EEA matters on my table, and then we have seen a case where Nav was granted the Social Security Court. Looking at that matter again, it may seem that both the Social Security Court and Nav have made a mistake in their interpretation and practice in this specific case. I thought it was right to inform Stortinget about it today. That is why I have sent a letter to Stortinget. I have also blacked Nav on that letter today. Of course, it is very unfortunate that this letter has been unanswered in the ministry for so long.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e3307	Then the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e3312	This is the seventh state budget presented by the Solberg government. An expression that remains in the draft budgets of this government, and which we also heard from the pulpit here in place, from the government consisting of two parties, through three and finally four parties, is about the sustainability of the welfare state – basically a great concept that describes important qualities of Norwegian society that it is important to take care of. According to the purpose paragraph of the People's Redemption, it deals with, among other things: providing financial security for unemployment, for the sole care of children, for sickness and injury, disability and old age, help for self-help and balance income between groups. But the sum of the seven budgets of the Solberg government is another. Those with the lowest income fall aft. It is not redistributed from those with high incomes to those with low incomes, but vice versa. As we point out in the Workers' Party's alternative budget: the sum of government's policies has made it harder for ordinary people to live their lives. They have given tax relief to them at the top and cut off against weak groups. The social differences are increasing. The pensioners have been negative for the last four years, while others have gone positive. Many, especially lone minimum pensioners, have difficulty. Child poverty is increasing. The government parties are hiding behind immigration, but that's only half the truth. Children of lone dependants are about half of them. The Solberg government consistently cuts along two lines – in the treasure of the richest, in the social welfare of the weakest. Income goes up at the top of the scale and down to the bottom. The issue of redundancy is a good example of how government parties think. The taskbar is an option for the Working Party, but for right-wing people a whip. They depend on a strange lack of logic – they with the least motivated by getting less, they with the most motivated by getting more. The result we see. More are being pushed out of popular fear and over into social assistance or private care. Unfortunately, those with redundancy pay are not alone. It doesn't seem to have any end, which creative cut suggestions it's possible to figure out. Only next year's budget shall be cut even further in redundancy payments. Youth is now on the move. Even the supplement as a young person shall be removed. It is cut in dental regulation for children and in glasses for children. Children in poor families get sweat the most. It was cut in the support of people with coeliac disease and intolerance to gluten. Some of the most vulnerable, those granted refugee status in Norway, were cut. There are people in need, already overrepresented in poverty statistics. They don't deserve to get worse. The requirement of living time in the population shall be increased from three to five years. It will hit everyone with such short living time. Then we all have the hidden cuts, in the form of the lack of price adjustment of social security rates in the population. It has been going on for a long time and now accounts for almost half a billion in cuts in various social benefits. According to Højres Nordby Lunde, child goggles and dental regulation are so-called non-relevant schemes, and the new slogan of the Progress Party, according to Erlend Wiborg, is: strength, reduction, change, introduction. This may indicate that he agrees with the Right Representative that non-relevant arrangements are cutting off. Then the question is whether those who experience these cuts agree that there were non-relevant arrangements. In a year's time, the government will promote its eighth, and hopefully its last, budget. Then we'll probably get some kind of status after eight years of right-wing rule. As a little gesture from us in the Workers' Party, we started that job. We go back to 2014: Then the transitional benefit to lone dependants was cut off by budgetary settlements with the Christian People's Party and the Left, but it was tightened up by the pay guarantee scheme for people who lost their jobs after bankruptcy, it was cut off by the law of leave and labour market measures for the unemployed. In addition, the car support rate was cut to disabled people, and areas were cut in areas with high levels of population with a foreign background. Of the smaller cuts — but which may be possible to live with — there is practically a zero out of the housing loan scheme in the State pension fund. Again: If the single carers and the unemployed believe that these were non-relevant schemes, I am not quite sure. It continued in 2015: once again, the Christian People's Party was the salvation of some. The large cuts in the children's supplement for exorcism with up to NOK 28 000 per child were stopped by the Christian People's Party by agreeing with us, but a cut was nevertheless made for them with the very lowest incomes. Then it was cut in the allocation to work against involuntary part-time. Standard health care periods would apply, based on diagnosis, not the individual’s situation. The cuts in labour market measures continued, now towards people with disabilities. Proposals for the suspension of waiting pay were sent to the hearing, and the rights of disabled persons were continued to be attacked by the disappearance of the whole social benefit of Group 1 car. In the same year, the holiday allowance for the unemployed and the allowance and child allowance for persons on supplementary social benefits disappeared. Irrelevant arrangements, unfair arrangements – I am not so sure. In 2016, it was cut both in the organisation grant and in work and training trips for workers with disabilities. The lot to reduce taxes and taxes introduced taxes on termination benefits for people who lose their jobs due to curtailment, redundancy, liquidation, bankruptcy, and the quarantine period for daily allowances increased from eight to twelve weeks. The proposal to transfer permanent work to the municipalities was fortunately stopped in Stortinget, but it was cut off in means of activity for people with disabilities over 26 years of age, in «Rasers back» and in the transitional benefit. Those who come to Norway for family reunification lost the right to supplementary benefits. Instead, over 67 years of age were reduced to social assistance or private care. The smallest of all was that people were deprived of additional social benefits for their own consumption when staying in old-age and infirmary homes. Is that fair? Why doesn't everyone have to have the same thing? In 2017, the appropriations for the Labour Inspectorate and the Petroleum Authority were weakened, and no new efforts were made to combat the crime of working life. There might be irrelevant issues? On questions from the Workers' Party, the government stated that, as a result of the lack of annual price adjustments of the 2014 rates at that time, the amount was 281 million. kr. So now it's double. The real cuts continued in 2017. A so-called ‘disposal authorisation’ was introduced from permanent work to actions for ordinary job seekers. In 2018, there was a proposal to cut contributions to single carers and propose cuts in parts of the care scheme, but the latter had to go ahead, because the majority said no, fortunately. However, the government has still not complied with the Storting decision that foster parents with social security should not lose sight of being foster parents, and they have refused to comply with the Storting decision that termination benefits should not be reduced in social security. The practice of not price-setting the social welfare of the people has just continued. The government also proposed a cut-off on the basis of daily allowances, but had to embark on it in the budget negotiations in the Stortinget. A new proposal to ease people's and expenditures out of popular fear and over to the municipalities, this time the right to help, was fortunately also voted down in the Stortinget. Now in 2019, the effects of cut-offs in redundancy money have begun to show up – even for Nav, there has been a surprising sharp decline. Many lose the benefit despite the lack of clarification. Child protection is increasing — fine, but social welfare recipients did not enjoy it. New Nav figures show that several lone dependants after the meddlings in the transitional social welfare system have to have social assistance in addition to being able to cope. New figures show that 122,800 disabled people have reduced net income, but no measures against it have been proposed. Deficiencies in the price of social security contributions continue. Differences are increasing. Those with little experience cut at cuts in social benefits and rates, while the rich get tax cuts. The government parties seem to be proud of what they've been given. What many people are wondering is whether that's the common perception of all the four government parties. At least I realized at least on the post of Erlend Wiborg that all these cuts are completely in line with the view of the Progress Party on how well-being will be in the years to come. He called it adjustments. We call it something else. I don't think the disabled people who lost the car service agree that it was just an adjustment. I don't think sick people who are thrown out of redundancy pay and on social assistance agree that these are just adjustments or so-called non-relevant schemes, as Nordby Lunde called it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e3345	The inclusion duvet must roll on. We need the labour force, and the community means a lot to the individual. Anyone can get sick by sitting at home on the sofa for too long. I tend to say that inclusion is primarily about including us women, because we still have a way to go. My father's quota has been absolutely vital to my participation in work, while it has given my husband an opportunity to be a father. However, we have had to tolerate comments such as that I am self-realizing, while my husband is a slippery hero. Unthinkable comments, which are often also unconscious, lead to attitudes that maintain much of the old mindset. These positions prevent inclusion. Hege Berg, at the University of Bergen, has looked at Norwegian stereotypes and how we look at others in the areas of warmth and competence. Berg has found that the Nordics look at us women as the warmest and most competent. I consider myself to be reasonably warm and competent, but I know that that image often fades a little when one puts the professional title politician ahead. Even colder it might be if I say I represent the Right – because it's so easy to put each other in booths. Worse still, it is for the disabled, who the Nordics regard as hot, but little competent – and then we wonder why not more people get into the workplace. A man sitting in a wheelchair recently said the following in the newspaper, after he finally got a job at Scandic after several hundred applications: "I've been disabled since the birth of, I know what society thinks about us and how we're judged by what people see. But I have always known that one day I would have the opportunity to show that I can do a job as good as anyone else." This employment has been an unconditional success. But it required a leader who looked at him as a resource, and cleared his own prejudices out of the way. Unfortunately, that leader is the exception rather than the rule. We're going to a meeting where there's an increasing number of older people, while oil revenue goes down. Digitalisation and automation threaten our jobs, we get more immigrants, and skills become increasingly important. We can't keep putting each other in booths. As a politician, I have become involved in the senior cause, as well as in the women's case. Women have fought for many years for their right to work. Now many of those who went ahead of us in the women's fight, in order to continue in working and social life, despite age. They fight with'men like pushers 50' and they fight an important battle. The pension system and welfare system are not designed to support the rest between 30 and 60 years of age. It's not sustainable. It is also not good for the individual who is being pushed out of work. To end up in a sofa only because of years of birth is the waste of important resources. It'll also be able to morbidize a larger part of us. We need everyone, and that's good medicine for the individual. When I round 50, we will lack labour, especially in health and care. In fact, the lack of health professionals and nurses can be solved by women working more full time and increasing their retirement age by a few years. It surprises me that in typical women's minds, long-term debate is held, while in man-dominated industries, the norm is normal. ASKO had not been able to provide food to Norway if it were to be organised as in the health sector. It's a cross of thought that we talk so little about the quality of services. Full-time culture gives satisfied users and satisfied employees, but it is demanding work, especially around the tour. The attitudes affect us, even here. We have to create a society where we need everyone. The government is stepping up efforts in inclusion and making it easier for employers to hire. Nav now offers a permanent contact person, applications are digital, and the toolbox has more good tools available. The most important thing for an employer is to have a person call if there is anything. The social partners are also involved through the ‘We include’ cooperation project. We need good bridge builders between working life and those outside. Work and inclusion companies contribute well with Nav. It is important that there has been a historical increase in the number of permanent job placements in recent years. By including, integrating and investing in competences, we will ensure that even more people get involved and that no one goes out to date. But it requires that we believe in people and that we give them the chance they deserve.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e3376	It is in this matter that most of the state budget is being distributed. Unbelievable 474 billion. is the framework to be shared by the Labour and Social Committee today. There is far more than the municipal committee allocated to municipalities and counties in the past today, and far more than what hospitals will receive. So I think it's a little strange to listen to the debate so far, where the opposition draws a picture of a government that doesn't have a social profile, when about all of the 474 billion. kr is for social purposes. The alternative budgets of this chapter do not differ from the framework proposed by the Government Party. Working party seen by 475 billion. kr, Centerpartet 474.5 brd. SEK, SV 475.5 billion. kr and Red 477 brd. kr. So there's no big difference between 474 billion. kr as proposed by the Government Party. It tells me that there's a lot of agreement in Norway about a lot in the welfare state. The main reason why we can spend so much money on this today is that someone is putting money into the state budget. It comes mainly because there are jobs in the country that pay employers' contributions, and that people tax incomes say. Therefore, it is important that we have jobs, and these should also be profitable, so that companies pay corporate tax. I am busy working to contribute to the state budget and not to live from the state budget. Then we can't believe in this room that we can be against the oil and gas industries, for example, and so believe that creating the state budget will be as simple as today. Nor can we be against the aquaculture industry or those who invest their own savings and create jobs, and call them welfare professionals in this room. I think all of us are going to have a safety net for those who get sick, lose their jobs or need a pension to live on, but we must never take for granted the income that ensures us the ability to contribute to it. In this budget, the Progress Party is busy with jobs, and we are very happy to have a well-functioning working life policy today. We are very pleased that nine out of ten report that they liked the job. Nevertheless, there are some challenges in some industries in the world of work. For this reason, the government has put on the table a work package that I am very happy to get several today. There's 6 million for the Labour Inspectorate. kr extra for which they can work with the crime of working life. Petroleum monitoring is also strengthened by 6 million. kr, so that they can follow up on the security of that operation. In addition, we make it clear that individuals should be able to notify them of critical circumstances and set aside more money to manage them. We also focus more on international cooperation on labour policy. The party of progress will be its business party, and we are clear that we should facilitate jobs in the future as well. It is good for district policy, which is often discussed in this Chamber. It is then very much about state jobs, but the most important thing for the districts is that private individuals will invest in jobs throughout the country. Employment policy is also about full-time and part-time work. There is no solution if we introduce six hours' working day, as some propose in this budget. We need to make sure that we use the Working Environment Act and the opportunities it gives us to create revolutions that ensure a full-time culture, as this government has facilitated. Fortunately, we see developments going in the right direction, and that the part that is now working part-time has socks from 40 pst. to 37 pst. It's still not enough, but it's a step in the right direction. We will also help you to find good local solutions that give you a more full-time culture in the future. Having more people in work is the most important thing that can be done to reduce the need for continued growth in the budget of this committee. There must be a goal for us to secure the resilience of the arrangements and to ensure the balance between what comes into the state budget and what goes out. Then, the key is to have a policy that ensures that you create a job. The party of progress in government always has that focus.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e3395	Politics is about prioritizing. It was just the Progress Party in opposition that seemed to say yes to everything that was popular. When they joined the government, they got a different song, and they turned out to be an ordinary right-wing party – a right-wing party that clearly prioritizes, along with the other right-wing parties in government, which shows that they are on the wrong team. The right parties are on the team with the millionaires – the Labour Party is on the team with people with normal wages, with commuters and with kindergarten parents. The right parties are on the side with the shareholders – the Labour Party will stop the privatisation and rather secure people permanent, entire positions. The right parts are on top layers - the working party is for those who work on the floor. The right parties are on track with the climate realists – the Labour Party will solve the climate problems by investing in our industrial workers and contributing to thousands of new industrial jobs. The right hand parts are on the right hand side with the fund managers – rather, the working party chooses the pensioners. The right parties are on the team with the bandits - the working party requires cleaning up in the unprofitable world of work. The right hand parts are on the right hand side with the loops – the Labour Party must ensure that everyone is ready for the new working life. Indeed, it is the millionaires, the shareholders and the fund managers who serve most of the government's policy. In the absence of commitment to climate and competence, the government is failing future generations. Consumer employers can continue their ludicrous activities almost without the risk of being exposed and punished. You can also select a page from the working party. We're on the team with the workers. Therefore, we increase the commuting discount, lower the nursery prices and give lower taxes to all who make less than NOK 750,000. Therefore, we stop privatisation, secure full-time jobs and involve employees more closely in the development of public services. That is why we solve the rental problems once and for all with the proposals we are making in the Stortinget, and demand full, permanent jobs. That is why we give serious priority to companies with their own employees, trade union workers and apprentices when it comes to ordering public construction and transport. That's why we double the trade union deduction and propose to give more power to the trusted and reintroduce collective redress rights. Therefore, we will make full use of the EEA Agreement space for action to combat social dumping and labour crime. That is why we want to create new industrial workplaces. The Norwegian industry shall be a central part of the climate solutions. That is why we want to implement a skills reform throughout our working life where everyone can learn at work. And that's why we want to secure a pension from the first penny for everyone, increase the minimum pensions and change the regulation so that the pensioners don't lose this year with salary growth. I think the story and the voters will take a hard judgment over the government of Erna Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e3408	I must first say that I believe the representative Grande has misunderstood the time and place a little. He does not make a post in France in 1789 or in Russia in 1917, but in Norway in 2019. The Norwegian economy is in a good time. New jobs are being created now, in the city and the countryside. The registered unemployment rate is at the lowest level of over 10 years, and the whole country is taking part in the rise. Business activity is high and labour demand is increasing. Only since the end of 2016 has employment increased by 115,000 people. Over three quarters of the growth has come in the private sector. On the left hand side, at least inside, it must appear quite ironic that they have to stand here today and rage over a bourgeois government such as this. have stepped up the fight against labour-life crime and established seven a-krim centres, which have stepped up the fight to create a better full-time culture, such as: has resulted in 60,000 more full-time employed women from 2013 to 2018 and correspondingly that the proportion of women employed in part-time has fallen from 40 pst. to 37 pst. during the same period. There is therefore good reason to be optimistic about the situation in Norwegian working life. But this is not only a result of Norway being, and being, lucky with many factors, it is also a result of politics. One of the reasons for good development is that this government is conducting systematic efforts to defend and strengthen the working line. There are people at work who are the basis for our well-being. However, it is becoming increasingly clear that the working line is becoming a political dividing line between the bourgeois parties and the left and not something we stand together about. As we made it impossible to receive more together in social security and child allowances than we could get before disability, this led to major protests from the left. When we introduced an activity obligation for young social welfare recipients, it was called forced labour by SV. When we made the system of redundancy payments more work-oriented, an overall opposition went against. This year we have received several examples: the working party and the rest of the opposition would keep the shielding plug-in too unfinished, despite the fact that the disadvantage to be shielded has not yet arisen. So they wanted you to get worse out of work. The Labour Party is also opposed to following the Employment Committee and Nav's own recommendations to reduce the rate of redundancy payments for young people under 25, who are currently paid more on the AAP than peers who work as apprentices or are students. The scheme was becoming a trap of poverty. Now they're getting better and closer to Nav's follow-up. The workline is a prerequisite for our well-being society. It's not going to get any easier in the future. By 2060 we are going to be twice as many pensioners per person of working age. Then we have to dry out with a critical look at the arrangements we have, and consider whether they are adapted to today's society, or whether it is necessary to make adjustments, new devices. Unfortunately, we see an opposition that is more concerned with expanding and eroding all social benefits even when investigations and expert advice show that they are not working. It may be suitable to score cheap points today, but it would be future generations that would have to pay the bill if it was implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e3429	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e3434	I notice that the representative Toning Riise believes that there are representatives from the Workers' Party who are disoriented. In that case, I think that label can denote more, not least the representative himself, for the map of the representative does not match the terrain. When we talk about part-time positions, we know that women have gone from holding their hand to having the cell phone waiting for the next watch. Planning a everyday life, getting the cabal to go up, is too hard, and it's also hard not to know what's going on in the account next month. And in terms of work-life crime, it's not long since we've seen grotesque examples of people being exploited in Norway today. But what I want to do now is cut off the government's redundancy allowance for young people under 25. With government policy, young people under 25 now have to live for 130 000 kroner a year. There is a sharp decrease in the income of some of those who have at least a long way to go. Of course, it's worth working, and so does it. But for the Workers' Party, the line of work is about lifting people into work, it's about making demands, but it's also – not least – about setting them up. Recently, we have described several examples of stories about sick, young people who would have liked to have exchanged places with people of their own age who are in full-time work or under education. Economic insecurity does not bring young people closer to work. When the government cuts the redundancy allowance, you hide behind the employment committee. However, the Employment Committee is going a long way in problemating whether you live at home or if you live away. An exception is also made for the elderly of up to 25 years of age, those of 23 and 24 years of age, if they live away. But I can't see that the government has taken this into account and included it in its proposals. It is unsustainable to impose a cut in redundancy payments on young people and to make it up to themselves to finance their Nav case handlers. The government is slimming down our welfare arrangements, the budget for the budget. This year, there was a cut in support of children's glasses and cut in the AAP. The sum of government policies is an exclusion line. The working line is the Labour Party that stands for.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e3447	I would like to talk a little bit about how SV has prioritised its alternative state budget. There is clear evidence that SV will be ready to fight class divisions and for a better social policy where we will preserve and improve the quality of life of people and get a safer and more serious working life. Some of our bets I'd like to record here. We are now facing a climate crisis that must be resolved jointly. SV believes that the state needs to contribute more to twisting business in a more green direction. So we're working in SV now with a big project called green new deal. There may not be any language price information available, but the content will be of interest to many people. I can already inform you that one of the measures in this project is a competence fund to contribute to the practical and necessary empowerment of workers on the floor of industrial enterprises that aim to become more environmentally friendly. This should be a competence fund to be managed by the social partners themselves, who know best how to print the shoe. It's a fund of 100 million. kr, which is a priority in our alternative state budget, and which if we had been guided and realised this would have been assigned to a composite steering group of e.g. Norwegian Industry, Nelfo, EL and IT, Joint Confederation and Industry Energy. SV has always been and is still a very clear equality party. So we're talking about a pot that's going to go into multiple long-term trials with six hours of work. It may not be written in stone that the normal working day will be eight hours, all the time we spend years being more productive, and society will be more digitised. In addition, we cut off a total of 200 million. kr to start the realization of the 'Roadmap' for the school. 80 pst. – 80 pst., president – of Norwegian schools does not have a satisfactory standard when it comes to universal design. This is what SV will do. In addition to this, we have seen plenty of money to get close and well-follow-up in Nav, as well as money to 2000 response sites and a total of 800 new VTA sites.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e3462	The Nav reform was launched on 1 July 2006. It has not been successful. «One door in» was the great slogan. It doesn't work for those who need it the most. There is therefore a need for more professionals in the local hubs and fewer in the specialised departments, and for the professionals at the local hubs to be given greater responsibility and more power. The centre party is therefore very pleased that the Workers' Party and SV are involved in the following proposals: ‘The government is asked to provide the Nav offices with the power to take decisions on both performance and follow-up of redundancy payments.’ So it's one of the temporary benefits. In the case of pensions, the Central Party is the negotiating party. It is apparent from proposal No. 4 in the retirement pension regulation position in 2019 and the income ratio of pensioners. Together with SV, we promote the following proposals: ‘The government is asked to make the necessary proposals to ensure that the organisations involved in the social security scheme are given the right to negotiate in 2020.’ It's a proposal that the Pensioners' Association and all pensioners should notice. We go along with the Workers' Party and SV in order to re-regulate the current pensions in a new way. Instead of having a deduction from wage developments of 0,75 pst. We're going to go to the actual average of pay and price. Furthermore, if there is a positive difference between the government's regulation of the old-age pension and the proposal for an average wage and price increase, then this should be facilitated so that this can be set aside to further increase the minimum pension. It is to follow up the legacy of former Social Minister Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa, who advocated some repriorization within the framework that is. The lot also enters in order to increase the annual minimum pensions for the same amount by NOK 2000 from 1 October 2019. We are opposed to increasing the requirement of living time in the population and to abolishing the specific provisions of the people's rights for refugees. The argument is seaworthy: the government is bringing its policy up to a policy that will increase differences in Norway and put some of the weakest out of the scheme, which has until now been considered a minimum level for all. It will change our society and work conflict-making instead of anti-conflict. We are opposed to reducing the minimum benefits on redundancy benefits for people under the age of 25 and the winding-up of the young disability supplement. I'm surprised when both the Council of State and the Christian People's Party use the Employment Committee to justify this. I thought that the employment committee was going to be consulted, and that one would then have an overall discussion of the many proposals of the Employment Committee. The centre party enters to price-regulate a number of grant rates. We're the only ones who give money for it. We're going in to keep the glasses, and we're going in to grant money to maintain the level of the coolers.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e3489	The Centre Party proposes to establish 500 new VTA sites – permanent work organisation. The VTA scheme gives people with permanently reduced working skills the opportunity to participate in the working life and thus the possibility of a meaningful, active and independent everyday life. We believe that there must be a seamless transition from continuing school to VTA space for young people who need it. We have also put forward a proposal on this, together with SV, which read as follows: ‘As of 1 August 2019, the Government will be asked to have clear legislation providing young people with the need for permanent work in such a state-funded place.’ [[VTA]] The Labour Party and the Government Party do not support this proposal, and the system of today with a lack of VTA sites creates uncertainty and increased burden for both youth and family, which also leads to additional expenditure on other government and municipal budget lines. The Government Party has already voted in favour of the proposal of the Centre Party to obtain a national overview of the need for VTA sites. So the government doesn't want such a list. They have also voted in favour of a proposal for a national escalation plan for VTA sites in line with the need, and they have voted in favour of our proposal for a re-evaluation of the award criteria for VTA sites. The government proposes to maintain the number of VTA and VTO sites in the State budget at the level of the second half of 2019. According to the government, 11100 action sites will be created in 2020. Several hearing bodies have provided information that the need is greater than the level of today’s permission. The Employers' Association for Growth and Recruitment Enterprises, ASVL, states that there is an annual need for at least 800 new places in VTA. Several hearing bodies also point out that the situation is particularly challenging for those with disabilities, and that this group also loses in the fight for jobs in permanent work. The centre party is concerned that many people who need permanent work are waiting to be accommodated. ASVL reports that eight out of ten developmental disabilities go straight from school to work. I repeat: Eight out of ten people with disabilities go straight from school to work. I believe that the government council and the government party boast that they have started an inclusion process to get more people to work. So this inclusion requirement does not apply to young people with developmental impairment who want a VTA space. Permanently organised work is the key to inclusion and to allow people with permanently reduced working skills to participate in the working life, either in the workplace or in normal working life, and it is wrong that the government does not see this or have the will to prioritise this field more.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e3509	I would like to point out a great deal of unfairness in this draft budget by the government that will affect 20 organisations in Norway, among others. Red Cross, Cancer Association, 4H, Refugee Aid, Voluntary Sniper Service, Breast Cancer Association, Norwegian Women's Sanitation Association and Norwegian Sports Association. Government coverage of the employer’s share of the pension contribution to the State pension fund for those organisations. The government has decided to introduce an actuarial imputed pension contribution for activities in the voluntary sector that are members of the State pension fund and are exempt from the employer’s share today. Today, the Norwegian Sports Association is financed mainly through state-owned instruments – instruments that go into activity and for organisation. This conversion will mean that the funding will have to be taken off the funds and paid back to the State. The large conversion and extra cost will have a major impact on national and regional activity. The right-wing government, with the Left, Christian People's Party, the Advance Party and the Right, is weakening with this volunteering throughout Norway – and the Olympic peak through paralympic sport in particular. In proposal No 15 in the position of which the Socialist Left Party and the Workers' Party are united, the following is added: ‘The government is asking that the organisations currently excluded from paying the employer’s share of the State pension fund continue to benefit from this exemption.’ I have been a member myself and elected continuously for 40 years in Norwegian sport – local, regional and national. The government is constantly talking about the importance of volunteering in Norway. That employees around in all these organisations who do a useful job every day, whether national, regional or local, are to be punished by extra costs of this conversion, I think it is completely unreasonable. I can mention the Olympic peak, whether it's on Sognsvån or in Trondheim, which gets 15.7 million. NOK in extra costs with this introduction in 2023. Only in Trøndelag is it more than 1 million. kr in costs – costs that volunteering and sport must cover itself, either through the means of gambling or through other revenue collected. This, I think, is very unreasonable. The Olympic peak works with children and young people, with people with disabilities through paralympic sports, with healthy girls' sports, etc. And here you have to find money or reduce your activity. I think that is completely unreasonable, so I recommend everyone to support proposal No. 15 in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e3526	The differences between people are now getting bigger because they're supposed to get bigger. There are kids who are deprived of support for dental regulation and government glasses, disabled people who lose holiday money, and their kids who thus lose opportunities to experience in line with their classmates. There are burns that are excluded from physical therapy support. Former Social Policy Spokesperson and now Minister of the Right, Torbjørn Røe Isaksen, has said: ‘Norway tolerates increased differences’. Kristin Clemet from the Right has said: ‘The differences in Norway are not superstitious. As long as people feel that the differences come from something that is fair, then trust in society will not be weakened." But is it fair to look at the smile of the kids if their parents are poor or rich? Is it fair that those who have helped build our country, our pensioners, should go in minus, while others go in plus, or that those who labor with burns, should get extra costs to cover physical therapy? No - Clemet and Røe Isaksen are wrong. The Labour Party would rather have a fairer Norway, we would like a Norway where workers get paid properly, where families get security, and where our communities get confidence in the future. That's why we're so eager to fight for more permanent jobs across our country. That's why we want a health service to make sure that the public offer is so good that it doesn't matter whether the wallet is thick or thin. And that's why we're clearly saying no to take the pension from the disabled and cut their economic security for the future. We believe in real freedom and in real community, and then, of course, it's wise to make sure that retirement and health are something we provide. This should not become a privatized responsibility that people are forced to stand for themselves, alone in a market. The time is ripe for a new government. Time is ready for a fairer Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e3549	After this debate today, there is no doubt that the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Government know what they do when they go completely focused on people who are sick, unemployed, disadvantaged – there can be no doubt about it. It knows what they're doing, and they want to do it. They want the differences to increase. One of the things we know is that nothing is as misdistributed as health. And then you go straight to those who have bad health and hit them completely consciously, while you use, I think, approx. five seconds to spade millions into the pockets of the richest and freshest in this country, which should stand up in the morning and contribute more. That should give the right parties the courage to say to people. The Power Party The Advance Party is a bluff. We have seen that before today in the treatment of the local economy, where we see that they do not give priority to local economy, so that we can get rid of the terrible stories that are covered in care both by the elderly and by others who depend on care. In this case, the social security and pensioners are failing. The pensioners react strongly to the underregulation and that the matter should not even be discussed in Stortinget at the same time as the social security settlement. I think it's cowardly for the government to put it up this way. They should have been lifted because the underregulation fails. Everyone who sits in this room now, after all the years this has been pointed out and shown. The Progress Party continues to lie that only the Progress Party voted against the pension reform. So did SV. SV voted against the pension reform and yet submitted a separate proposal for a different system. So did the Progress Party, and it was that everyone should become the minimum pensioner. I've been here a long time, so I know it! Now it's the same thing: the party of progress only owes to other parties and to the previous government so that this doesn't change now. But the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party say we want to fix this. There is a majority in the Stortingen for this now, if the Progress Party really wants to. If they really believe that it is the pensioners and the elderly who are most important, they would get a lot more out of it if they had voted in favour of the Workers' Party, the SV and the Senter Party's proposals for both local economy and pension settlement, and for the system around it. We get very well demonstrated that there are some parties that are for the few and the richest, and other parties, like SV, that want to be there especially for those who are disadvantaged and struggling. It will make society better, and the jam will also be able to get into work if we do it this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e3564	This debate is also a debate on social security. It ended seven months ago, so it might not be entirely ‘spot on’. That debate will once again be a reprisal of previous debates. We're not going to get the social security bills for real treatment as long as the Solberg government sits. Thus, the right of discussion of pensioners does not become real. There will be no real treatment in Stortinget. It's one-sided and is not to be rich, even though former government councillor Robert Eriksson did to the Storting that there was no problem at all. There are parties that mean something else, as Karin Andersen said. The working party also believes something different, but we are not in today's government. The Labour Party believes that a fair pension is one of the most important aspects of the policy. The right-wing government disagrees with that. Some people have good pensions with red occupational pensions as well. They also benefit from the government's tax cuts to the richest. It's not true, as Erlend Wiborg says, that the tax burden on pensioners is reduced. It's reduced for those with the highest pensions, but not for those with the lowest. We have these numbers from Siv Jensen himself. What they've got with little, on the other hand, is a notable real decline in the value of pensions through four consecutive social security payments. Those who became pensioners in 2014 have not experienced a single settlement with plus, perhaps except this year – it could be 0.1 pst., we do not know so far. The Labour Party will do something about this, but the government will not. We want the social security bills back to Stortinget. The government said no. We want to change the regulation of current pensions, so that pensioners don't have to go into negatives when others go into positives. The government said no. Pure percentage increases the income gap between pensioners as the years go by. The Labour Party wants us to look at the possibilities for redistribution within the framework of the pension agreement. The government said no. Poverty, or persistent low income, as it is also called, is higher among single minimum pensioners than in the rest of the population. The Workers' Party will do something about this by once again increasing the minimum pension by the same amount as NOK 4000, but the government says no and continues to reward those who can afford their own pension savings, with a tax cut of NOK 9000. The working party will have a fair occupational pension with earnings from the first crown. The government said no. So says Erlend Wiborg: we've increased the minimum pension to lonely. Has there ever been such a proposal by the Progressive Party of Government? No, it has been promoted in the Storting of the Workers' Party, and it has been taken up by the Christian People's Party in budgetary negotiations in the Stortinge, but it has not been promoted by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e3577	A debate that starts going to the end shows that we look at people differently. We have just heard that twenty organizations, which provide quite basic services to people, I would say – Cancer Association, Breast Cancer Association, Red Cross – get a bill of almost 180 million. kr from this government because they are to start paying the employer's share of their pensions in the State pension fund. It is possible that there is a technically correct solution, but then it should also be informed about how to cover the costs for people. We have heard a committee leader talking about adjustments in a wide range of social security benefits. There are no adjustments to what has happened in the last seven years, taking holiday money from people who have lost their jobs, car support, children’s allowance, housing support and children’s glasses — and now the young people who are on redundancy pay pay themselves for better action. The budget guarantees that this money will be spent in addition to what is spent on young people today, but there is nothing in the budget about what it is. I expect the Council of State to have the floor at the end, and then I think the Council of State should say something about how much money we spend on the young recipients of redundancy payments today, so that we can also check from Stortinget's side that the money that is now being taken from the young people, who are going to be spent on action, is actually spent on it. The previous change in redundancy benefits has made more than 10,000 people unsecured — and it has increased by over 2,200 in recent years. It is a serious situation for those affected. Many today have spoken nicely about the inclusion dowry. Dugnad is free work, as I understand it. Then it could be interesting to hear the council say something about how you have succeeded. How many more disabled persons are now employed in the departments? I would also like the Council of State to say something more about what I asked for in the reply to the Council of State, because it cannot be that the department has cut 400 million. kr through the ABE reform without having the slightest idea of how the money has been cut. I think the Council of State should spend a little more time in its final article. And to the Tonning Riise representative, we both come from the Inland. Why don't we have an a-krim centre in the Inland, where the transport and construction industries are one of the major industries? Why don't we have to set up an a-krim center in the interior too? We know there's a need for that there too.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e3590	The working party usually has a critical look at tax relief they think is not working – and this is probably the most relief, according to the Workers' Party. But one tax base that we know is not working, they come back with proposals to increase in every budget, namely the tax base of trade unions – there are no statistics that show that the level of organisation increases as the deduction increases. No, on the contrary, it has sunk steadily, despite increases when the Workers' Party crashed. Nor has the trade union movement had more money than they have now, so if it was the price of the quota that was crucial for the degree of organisation, they could lower the price themselves. The reason why they don't is probably because they know it's not where the shoe presses. The YS conducts an annual work-life survey in which, among others: ask those who are not organised the reason for this. And every year we see the same result: it's not the economy that's the cause. The most important reason for this is that they believe that trade unions do not sufficiently care for their interests, while 40 pst, interestingly, indicates that trade unions have too strong links with political parties. But we never hear the Workers' Party talk about that. In this case, only economic incentives have something to say. Let it be clear: the right wants real tripartite cooperation, where we talk to both employees’ and employers’ organisations – not bipartite cooperation between the government and the LO. We want a serious organized working life. I noticed that the representative of Moxnes from Red earlier today raised himself above that the Right believes that it must still be optional to organise. In this regard, I have noticed that one of the more radical fractions in LO, that is LO in Oslo, is still on a study trip to Cuba. There is only one legal trade union that is directly subject to the Communist Party. There is also no strike right in Cuba, but it could lo in a travel report tell was due to the fact that this was solved there before the problems arose. It could be tempting to ask the representative of Moxnes if there is such a system he sees in his society. I see that Moxnes isn't there, so instead we'll have to wait for the revolution, but I suspect it'll be a bit like waiting for Godot.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e3599	When you listen to the debate that has been here today, you can ask yourself how rewarding the debate is in the beginning, because there are repeated direct errors from this pulpit. Had it not been unparliamentary, I would also say that some even have come with lies from this pulpit. In 2013, what I said instead was 370 billion. the use of public funds for various welfare measures. It's increased to 440 billion. kr. It's an increase. That's the facts. Then you can disagree with where that increase has come in the face of popular fear. I record that from this pulpit it is used words as ‘bandits’ about today’s government parties, without the President responding. It was said that we go after people, that you have the goal of almost making life bad for people. It's not like that, and everyone in this room knows it. Nobody is involved in the policy of creating a poorer society. Everyone is involved in the policy of creating a better society. Then you might disagree with what kind of instruments you need. Socialist Left Party Karin Andersen makes a direct mistake. The Socialist Left voted in favour of the pension reform, voted in favour of the underregulation, voted in favour of the statutory and contractual body governing pensions. Fortunately, it is in the minutes and in the votes in Stortinget from 2008, 2009 and 2011, and then I think the representative Karin Andersen should be so honest that she admits it. The Labour Party is talking about its tax policy towards pensioners. Statistical Central Bureau calculated the impact of the Labour Party's tax policy on its pensioners. 210,000 of the country’s pensioners would be taxed more with the tax treatment that the Workers’ Party launched a few years ago. We can add that both the Workers' Party and not least the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party want a curtailment for married and cohabiting pensioners. They voted against it when we got a pass to reduce the abbreviation from 15 pst. to 10 pst., which amounted to NOK 8000 to NOK 9000. The Labour Party representative said instead that between 8 000 and 9 000 kroner obviously were not that much, but for the country's pensioners there is a lot of money. The message that we have for treatment today — even if some of us later feel that we do not have it for treatment — says that the country’s pensioners have received a better economy, and they deserve it. The Progress Party shall work to strengthen it further.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e3612	I would like to remind the representative that when it is the expression he himself believes is unparliamentary, he should not use them either. The representative Lise Christoffersen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e3619	I had actually drawn a brief remark to give an answer to the representative Lundtägen as to why the Workers' Party could not take part in the remark he referred to when it came to international social security agreements. I've told Lundtegen before. That's because we thought the comment was upresis. It could easily be read as if we were not able to adopt new rules of popular security in Norway, but we can. There is no harmonisation of social security rules in the EEA. It's only when you take advantage of the free movement that this happens, and we've never tried to conceal it. We said that when we were in government, in a big message in 2013. We then joined in joint committee submissions where it is explicitly stated that the EEA Agreement limits what we can do about social security exports. So I would have liked to have more time to answer Erlend Wiborg, but would just say in the end that it is black on white that the pensioners have got it better financially, but it has been fixed by the pensioners themselves through higher earnings. It is not the merit of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e3626	A decent working life is fundamental to the welfare society. It should ensure that we can carry out sustainable modernisations that can last over time. Norway is a country with small differences, good welfare and high trust between people. You wouldn't always believe that when you hear a lot of what's being said in this room. There were doubts about the Norwegian model and the tripartite cooperation, despite everyone agreeing that we should have it. Rather than work to keep this unique thing in Norwegian employment, we are snuffed out about who wants it the most. When describing the working life of the left-hand side, examples from the outer edges are used. This is used as a basis for debates where the Stortinget creates legislation to ensure a decent working life. Then we have to look at the big lines and not regulate out of the exceptional cases. It worries me that the left-hand side is once again going to fight against rentals, and that they will shut private operators out of well-being. I'm also worried that we have a high level of sick leave and a high level of disability, and that this can lead to infectious effects. A study at the University of Stavanger took care of disability and depopulation in a municipality and the effect it had on people in the neighborhood of the insured. The researchers found that if 50 people in a municipality with 5,000 people were disabled due to depopulation, a further 25 people would be insured in the next few years of pure infection. This is why the new agreement on inclusive working life is important, with a focus on preventing and reducing sick leave and non-employment. In particular, preventive work on the work environment is to be done, which is in fact the most low-hanging fruit in reducing sick leave. The challenge is that so few people know what the working environment is actually about. We think it's about team construction in the shed and cake in the canteen. Companies offer mindfulness courses of fear of high shoulders and time clamps. The measures for a better working environment are many and creative. Unfortunately, fewer people work on what actually matters to the working environment, namely how work is organised, planned and implemented. How to do this on an individual enterprise, affects the health of employees, job exposure and the performance of the enterprise. The good news is that lower absenteeism also produces infectious effects. We therefore need good managers working with the working environment, while the Storting must ensure that the legislation is appropriate and that it balances the concern of the individual worker with respect to the individual enterprise. These two are interdependent, and in general this is characterised by good relations — much due to the Norwegian model and tripartite cooperation. The right is for an organized, tidy and decent working life. Let us take care of this and together develop it further – for a sustainable welfare society in the future as well. And remember, there may be a lot of health in being able to go to work, but it requires a good work environment and good managers.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e3641	I received some questions from the representative Aasrud, among others. on the ABE reform. I have to say, I am a little stunned, now that I have traveled the country around the last few years and seen how Norwegian companies have been fighting through a severe recession, because you can't see that the public sector, in fact, has to change from time to time. 0.5 pst. is not very loud. I'm not saying that it's easy to change, but the public sector must also be involved. You do it through ICT bets, you do it through rent contracts, you do it through other types of actions, and we see that it's going well, that it frees resources to work more directly with users. In my case, it's in Nav. As far as inclusion is concerned, we now have a good labour market. Jobs are created across the country, and in several industries there is demand for people. We now believe that we need to use the good times to include several of those on the outside of the labour market in Norway. That's why we've launched the inclusion dungeon, which is based on three pillars. It is based on supporting employers who want to hire one more by means of wage subsidies, mentoring schemes and the type of action they take. The second is that we want to improve cooperation between health and work, because we see that many of those on the outside of work have health problems, and where work could be an important part of the treatment. We want to improve the training opportunities for those who go to Nav, because we see that by the way half of those who go to Nav have primary schools as the highest level of completed education in a labour market that requires competence. That is why we are also changing the training measures to Nav. And we've demanded that 5 pst. of all new employment in the State shall be for the target groups of inclusion. Here, too, the Minister of Local Affairs has sent out several proposals for consultation on how to increase recruitment in the country. In the case of young people: Over many years, from 2008 to 2013, the number of young people outside of work, school and activity increased significantly. It's a big social problem when young people stay outside. This is why we have launched our own youth effort, we have undertaken the activity of young people in social assistance, we have implemented a school absenteeism — and now this action with young people in the AAP. We now see that there are fewer young people on social welfare, and that more people complete and pass the school, and that's important just to avoid long, passive social welfare runs. So I want to say in all modesty that the policy we have pursued will lead to more inclusion and less non-response.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e3650	The figures show that fewer people with disabilities are at work now than a few years ago. Then it won't be useful with cuts, which the government is doing. SV has proposed that those entering the Nav system be given the right to complete education, so that they have the opportunity to get a job. That's what the government's voting for. It is true that expenditure on this budget is increasing, but it is because many more older people have become pensioners and have earned higher pensions. When the Advance Party believes what I say is wrong, the Advance Party is wrong. We voted against it. When we went into government, we had to accept the pension reform that the other parties had adopted in Stortinget – against the votes of the SV and the Progress Party – just as the Progress Party accepted the pension reform when they went into government. Now there is a majority to look at some unfortunate effects of pension reform. At that time, the Progress Party should have the courage to be part of it. A representative from the Right makes an article and talks about the edges of the working life and that we shouldn't care about them. Well, that's where the disadvantaged are, it's the labour market that you have to offer to the disadvantaged, and that's where the problems are. Some research is also referred to. I wish that the Right could read some of the research that shows that health is very socially divided. It hits very crooked, and there's a rash in school, including, in working life – throughout life. Then benefits and schemes are cut for those who are ill-healthy and have lost their job, which is simply destructive. Think if the Right could read the research that shows how devastating poverty is for health, hope and opportunities. I know a lot of parents who have experienced the Right Cut. They find it difficult and difficult to get the ends to meet, they are struggling with shame and their children are being blamed, because they are constantly told that it is their own fault. If they had done as we had said – as the Right Party, the Advance Party and the government had said – this would have done well. That's not the way life is, it's not the way work is. Unfortunately, we now have a government that does not take over the devastating effects of poverty. At a time when we have as much money as we've never had before, either privately or in the state, we have to cut glasses, small money, children's supplements, at one time or another, just to hit the most disadvantaged.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e3664	Kristian Toning Riise has not seen anything that suggests a link between the degree of organisation and trade union deductions. Well, then he's going to get the hard facts from the pulpit. A research report from 2018 from the German research institute IZA in Bonn showed this context. It showed that the increase in trade union deductions that the red-green government had from 2001 to 2012 led to an organisational degree of 3 pst. higher than otherwise would have been, and that productivity would have been 6 pst. lower if the increase in the trade union deduction had not been achieved. For Norway, this would have meant 170 billion. kr in lost income only in 2017. We also know that skilled workers are looking for organized businesses. We see in the report that employees in organised enterprises are more loyal to their employer. Enterprises with an increase in organisational degree show a clear correlation: 1 pst. increase in organisational degree corresponds to an increase in productivity of 1,8 pst. Of course, it is not because they want to harm business that the right side weakens the trade union deduction. There are purely ideological reasons for that. They want to weaken the trade union movement. All the proposals we are promoting, whether about increasing the trade union deduction or giving more power to trade unions, are consistently voting down the right side. All their policies for the fragmentation of state companies and the refusal to have better opportunities to organise across state companies show that they want to weaken the importance of trade union movement in Norwegian employment. They want increased differences. Just by weakening the trade union movement they can achieve it, and the government succeeds in doing so. Governments are talking about the ABE reform. It's not a reform; it's just a cut policy. It does not trigger public sector reform. On the contrary, it affects services, it affects working life — through, among other things, the cuts made by the Labour Inspectorate, which reduce supervision — and not least the working conditions of those who work in these establishments. The Labour Party wants the best public sector in the world. We don't get that by putting the knife against the throat of the employees. That's what we get if we let the employees go and develop the services with the users.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e3677	The representative, Rigmor Aasrud, had the word twice before and got the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e3682	My brief comment is about the contribution that the committee's chairman, Erlend Wiborg, finally made here, where he explained why there has been no dramatic cut in the performances of the people, and he compares 370 billion. SEK in 2013 by 440 billion. Now kr. In the meantime, there has actually been a price rise, and there have been quite a number of people in Norway, there have been many more people in Norway who have lived longer and received greater benefits. I want to ask the representative Wiborg to do a little bit more, so maybe the numbers aren't going to be so good, and then maybe you wouldn't have used the word 'adjust' about the cuts that have been made, because they're actually pretty big.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e3687	The dilemma of the welfare state is, on the one hand, to provide a social safety network that takes care of those who, for many different reasons, are unable to participate in the labour market for short or longer periods of time, but, on the other hand, the social security network depends on the widest possible participation in the labour market, and these two things are interrelated. I have to admit that I'm basically a little pleased that the opposition is so clear in its resistance to change, because after the introduction of the obligation of activity for young social welfare recipients, we saw more people getting into work, activity or education. The Labour Party, SV and the Centre Party voted against. According to fact.no, more people are getting work clearance money faster and closer to follow-up after the changes that were made in 2018, after not having received the promised follow-up that the red-green government was allowed to give when they introduced the scheme in 2010. Several people are cleared up more quickly for work, and more people are more quickly granted the disability they are entitled to. After all, the system of redundancy payments did not work. That's why we had to make changes. There is a reason why labour scientists Markussen at the Frischsenter called it ‘a roller band out of work’. He believed that the locked people into permanent alienation, permanent poverty. It has been amended by the Government, against the votes of the Workers' Party, the SVs and the Center Party. I repeat: it is unsocial not to change the arrangements we see not working or not relevant. The representative of Christoffersen can tell you that, but we are actually following the recommendations of the SINTEF, the Employment Committee and the Nav in getting young people out of that roller band, which is what the Workers' Party is voting against today. I can mention from irrelevant schemes that we also cancel support for text telephones, simply because we no longer produce text telephones in Norway, and then we think it is good to actually remove that system. I remember that when the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre put in power, they had higher taxes, they had higher taxes, they had record oil prices and an economy in growth. Nevertheless, health cows increased, the AAP scheme did not work, and there were 15 000 more poor children. I can now tell that the 10 pst. The wealthiest in Norway is paying more personal taxes under this government than when the red-greens were in government. This government is changing to preserve the welfare state for all. We have increased child welfare, we have introduced free core time in the kindergarten, there are fewer in the hospital queue, and yes, we give lower taxes and taxes, so that those included get a job to go into a robust business. With regard to the descriptions of a social security network that is shaving, from SV, and the contributions from the representatives Sandtrøen and Grande, it reminds me a little about the election campaign in 2013, with all the fears. This gives me good hope that we will win again in 2021. People don't recognize themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e3708	Our National Assembly, Stortinget, is an arena of interest. It's about how we're going to spend the money we have, whether they're going to benefit the broad community, or whether society's resources and money are going to be collected on fewer hands. It's an honest thing to have a different view of how the distribution should be. I have a lot more respect for political opponents who are honest about what they think, and I have a great deal of respect for the quotation I mentioned instead, the statement that Torbjørn Røe Isaacen made earlier as a social policy spokesman, where he was open that he believes Norway tolerates increasing differences. Later, the Right has turned into a rhetoric that tries to obscure what is the honest opinion of the Red Isaac and the party. We have the same experience from the representative Hagerup. There are completely different views of laws in this room and how we are going to distribute the resources. Let me do three examples. During the day, we discussed whether we should have a law to ensure that counties have their own responsibility to follow up large companies to be closed, what is called the Conversion Act. The reason why the Workers' Party is for it is that we represent the interests of workers and communities throughout the country. Then it's important to us that if there's an opportunity to save a business, we're going to provide for continued activity and jobs. The right represents the interests of those who have assets, and then it makes sense that it is an advantage to be able to move that money away without any obstacles and extra time spent following up communities and the possibilities for further operations. It's an honest thing, but we disagree. The same goes for the management of our natural resources in Norway. The Labour Party prioritises the contribution of natural resources to value creation, jobs and employment. The right represents the idea that there should be an asset that you can buy and sell at your own discretion. It's also an honest thing, but it has very different consequences. This means, for example: for my region and my county, that right-wing politicians support the fact that large forest properties are to be bought and sold without any requirement for local ownership and hence value creation and retrospective ring-effects for most people. We disagree. The same is clear if you look at Right-Member Pål Atle Skjervengen. He has said that social dumping is almost just a theoretical abstract idea. But then he adds that if it helps to push wages down to a low European level, he is nevertheless in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e3725	The representative Karin Andersen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e3730	SV has proposed an activity obligation for Nav. SV has proposed several actions in Nav, so that people can actually get help. SV has proposed that people acquire competence through Nav, so that they can get a job. What the government has done is they've thrown thousands of undeclared people out of redundancy money and over for a year in quarantine, many of them without the right to social assistance once. And then you stand here and you say that you've fixed the system better. That's wrong. I understand that the representatives from the Right and I are talking to very different people. I'm talking to the people involved, the people affected by this, and they haven't got any better help. On the contrary, they have been in an economic situation that makes health problems bigger, and that makes them stand miles further away from work now than they did before the cuts.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e3737	The representative Nordby Lunde called for changes in Nav's benefits and arrangements. We're many who can agree that we need changes all the time – make systems better, make it easier for people to get into work and make sure that we help people even a little bit more. But that's not the changes that we're now discussing, doing. The changes we are now discussing, the cuts in redundancy payments for young people, are a reduction in the scheme. You keep hiding behind the Employment Committee. The selection is two-part, and they're not finished discussing at the other end, but now it's going to be. But what the first part recommends is a differentiation for those between 23 and 24 years of age, between residents and residents. But I can't see that this is something the government or the representative from there is calling for. What they are doing, on the other hand, is hiding behind parts of the Employment Committee's recommendation. I want to refer from parts of the report. It is now said that lower minimum benefits could lead to a wider need for supplementary social assistance — social assistance is a need-tested benefit where labour income is cut off in crowns. The incentives to increase participation in gainful activities are therefore initially weaker. We're always going to be willing to discuss the arrangements, make them better, strengthen them. But what is used as arguments to weaken them makes it a little harder. We'll never accept that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e3756	Debates of the European Parliament So 4 and 5 are done.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e3773	At the request of the Justice Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, there will be an opportunity for up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Those who had to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e3782	I would also like to start by thanking the Committee on good cooperation and rapid progress in the matter and, not least, thanking our distinguished committee secretary, who is joining us. Today, we are considering a proposal to change the timing of the assessment of victims of violence in readmission cases, from the time of the act of injury to the time of the conviction, and to give retroactive effect to the legislative changes. The Committee has demonstrated that criminal proceedings may be resumed following a decision of the Resumption Commission. A number of such cases have been resumed since the Commission started its work in 2004. The vast majority of these cases have ended in favor of the defendant. Only one thing has ended up in the disfavor of the defendant, the so-called Kristin case, who was accused of killing Kristin Juel Johannessen in 1999. Judgments in this case fell in 2016, 17 years after the event. In this case, the perpetrator was sentenced to pay compensation to the victim's parents. However, the Office for the Compensation of Victims rejected the claim, by reference to Section 19 of the Act on the Compensation of Victims of Violence, which states that Chapter 2 of the Act on the Measurement of Victims of Violence does not apply to offences committed before the entry into force of the Act. This led to the critical point in the Kristin case being the time when the criminal offence had taken place, not the time of the conviction. Kristin's parents thus did not receive compensation, even if the court ruled that they had a claim for it. In the explanatory statement for the proposal, the proposers have shown that the Kristin case raises questions of principle. They have shown that it appears to be grossly unfair and not in line with the basis of the system of compensation for victims of violence. Against this background, the Labour Party has proposed changes to the rules on compensation for victims of violence and to give these rules retroactive effect – which is the proposal we are discussing here. The Justice Committee asked in October for the Minister’s assessment of this proposal, and the Minister for Justice and Immigration wrote to the Committee in a letter that they are working on the follow-up of NOU 2016: 9, Fair and predictable – compensation for violence. The Minister further writes that the Ministry looks at a number of issues, including the request from the Stortinget in 2018 to ask the government to follow up the NOU and come back to the Stortinget with an assessment of the need to change the legislation on this particular field. In other words, the efforts to bring about legislative changes that ensure the victims of violence in older cases and resumption cases are a work that the government is doing, and the Minister also stresses to the Committee that the Government intends to propose a new law on compensation for victims of violence to the Grand Duchy as early as next year. This is what I want to say as rapporteur. I also want to add a few more considerations, and it is that in the government parties we are very happy that the minister assures us that the government will take care of this and ensure that the victim is properly cared for. It is an important principle, not least for us in the Advancement Party, that we should always be on the victim's side in this kind of case of principle. Therefore, in 2012, the Progress Party also promoted proposals to ask the government to amend this precisely, and that this change should be aimed at providing for all victims of violence of up to 60 G in compensation. At that time, the proposal did not receive a majority. Based on this, we from the government parties are very happy that the government is following up and saying that it should look at changes in the law. We are impatient, we want to put in place legislation quickly, and we are therefore grateful that the Minister of Justice and Immigration now says that this will be followed up by 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e3801	Should the representative make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e3806	Yes, thank you for the reminder! I am addressing the minority proposal from the Right and the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e3811	The representative of Himanshu Gulati has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e3816	Once again, we have a case for the Workers' Party, and in particular the Lagen Wagslid, have fought for it – a case where injustices must be corrected. The issue is, for our part, in principle, although we all know that it applies to one family in Norway today. It directly concerns the case of compensation for Kristin Juel Johannessen's parents, who had their daughter killed in 1999 – a replacement of the Lawyer's Rights awarded to the parents when the perpetrator was sentenced to 13 years in prison in 2016, 17 years after the killing. As everyone here knows, this is a substitute they won't get paid unless we who are sitting in this room want to change the legislation. It is therefore necessary to amend the legislation. This is unworthy. It is three years since we have been promoting this matter, and the third time the proposal is being put forward, the justification is the same. It is simply very unreasonable, and not in line with the basis of the system of compensation for victims of violence, that people who have been victims of failure in the police's work and who have had to wait for years to obtain clarification and conviction in their daughter's murder case should be deprived of the possibility of having the money paid to them because the law on compensation for victims of violence is not adapted to the resumption cases. In our opinion, the matter is also contrary to the general sense of law. In addition to the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre will support the proposal to remedy the injustice of victims' parents. As I said, this case has a long history, as has the treatment of it. The government parties have not been without understanding, and the Christian People's Party, by the current leader Kjell Ingolf Ropstad, correctly before the Christian People's Party joined the government, thanked the proposers and declared from this pulpit that we could not have a system that would have unfair consequences. Despite these words, the Christian People's Party will not support the proposal, but has promoted its own, which reads as follows: ‘The Government asks in the context of the follow-up to NOU 2016: 9 to ensure that the compensation scheme includes victims of violence from older cases and resumption cases.’; It got a majority. In this case, the majority of the Central Party, SV and the Workers' Party believe that it is highly critical that the government parties do not follow up their own promises and opinions given in connection with previous proceedings on the case. However, although they have previously agreed that the rejection of compensation to the victim’s parents is not a reasonable outcome, they have not ensured that the government makes the necessary changes. The claim for compensation becomes theoretical only with today's system. Because you do not get it paid, it is very unfortunate and does not appear to be in line with the purpose behind the legislation. The fact that there should be no opportunity to pay the compensation for the victims granted by the court in resuming cases appears to be a problem that the legislator has not considered. Here we are facing a gap in the legislation that needs to be closed again. This will concern only a few cases — only recovery cases that have resulted in the disadvantage of the defendant. The retroactive effect of the legislation will be of importance only for one case. The majority of the Committee, consisting of the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre, still believe that this injustice must be corrected now and refer to the suspension. It is positive that the government parties are now proposing that new law be introduced next year, but it has taken too long, and it is not getting better for that reason. That's not enough. The Workers' Party has therefore promoted a loose proposal that we hope can be accepted and in this way ensure that resumption cases are included. In addition, it is important for the Workers' Party to consolidate the time. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a new law on compensation for victims of violence, which ensures that the compensation scheme covers victims of violence from older cases and resumption cases, and presents them to the Stortinget during the spring of 2020.’ I bring this up with the proposals of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e3848	The representative Maria Aasen-Svensrud has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e3853	First, thank you to the case spokesman for a good work on the matter. We in the Central Party support the proposal presented in the draft representative that we are dealing with today. We have previously supported an identical proposal. The Committee seemed to agree that today’s legislation is not sufficiently adapted to take-back matters and that this needs to be corrected. I understand that it has been time-consuming for the ministry to prepare a proposal for a new law on compensation for victims of violence. There are many different problem options that the department has to decide on. However, it is now beginning to take too long before the proposal comes forward, and I think it is necessary to put more pressure on the government in the matter. That being said, I am in favour of the announcement from the government party that we can expect a new law on compensation for victims of violence to be submitted to the Stortinget during 2020. I still think we have to go beyond what the representatives of the Right and the Advance Party want. It should be clear from the decision of the Storting today that the new law on compensation for victims of violence should ensure that compensation for the victims of violence includes victims of violence from earlier cases and resumption cases. I refer you to the post from the representative of Aasen-Svensrud, who gave a good reason for this. The centre party supports the solution submitted by the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e3864	We had a debate earlier today where the pulpit almost took the guy. It's not happening right now, because I think we're actually pretty much in agreement about a lot. There are some minor differences. In fact, the compensation of victims is a very beautiful arrangement in our welfare state. We all agree that those who are subjected to violence are entitled to some form of compensation. A pearl is that, and most countries in the world do not have such good arrangements for this. In fact, through a case of compensation for victims of violence, we accept that the community has a responsibility for the individual, even though, of course, the community is not responsible for the incident that happened. We also accept through this that we have a responsibility to protect individuals from violence, and we take responsibility for it. The more we prevent violence, the less compensation for victims of violence will be paid. It's a very nice and nice arrangement. Now we're not going to deal with the system here, but I think we're going to remind ourselves that this is a system that we don't necessarily have to take for granted, that we're also using this debate to remind us how nice this really is. So we're dealing with the timing of calculating the actual compensation for the victims. We want the rules to be adjusted so that the scheme applies to all, regardless of the time. It shall not be such that the timing is calculated in such a way that those entitled to compensation under the principle of compensation for victims of violence fall outside – as it is now, as it is in the example being obtained. For me, this is a very simple matter to decide on. I also hear that there are not very big counter-conceptions about making changes to this. We are debating this in Stortinget mainly to seal a hole in a system where we have revealed some weaknesses. On the principle, we agree, and we ask that the government continue to clean this up, so that this is sealed in the best possible way. SV will also support the solution proposed by the Workers' Party today – it has been notified.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e3879	The matter we are dealing with here today is important, very important, for them. I would therefore like to start by thanking the proposers for raising this matter again. The Christian People's Party has had an involvement in this matter, and we basically agree with the proposers in the matter, but today we are behind the government parties' proposal for a solution. We feel that this proposal respects the Christian People's Party's intention to have a thorough and good procedure on the matter and the importance, so that we are presented with a legislative proposal, scheduled for 2020. When we discover that a system has unfair consequences, it's one of our foremost tasks as legislators to make sure that it's done. That is why the Christian People's Party took the initiative to start work on this change in this law already in the process of NOU 2016: 9, and we are pleased that the government is now following up the proposal in an overall work related to a fair and predictable compensation of violence. In such an important case, it is absolutely essential for them that we have a thorough review of the law. When proposals for amendments are submitted, we must ensure that we have been assessed whether there are several cases to be considered in the context. It is important to ensure that cases are not omitted. The Christian People's Party believes that the law must be amended in such a way that the time when victims are entitled to compensation for violence changes from time of action to time of judgment. We also believe that the government should consider whether other cases should be included in the scheme. The Christian People's Party is not against the proposal from the proposers, but we are to take it in a larger context. I've met relatives in such cases, and that gives me a strong impression. That's why it's important that we do a thorough job here. We have received a clear signal in the Council's reply letter, which says that the department is following up the Christian People's Party's request proposal from 2018 and how it can now be met in new law. This shall be done in the context of the follow-up to NOU 2016: 9, Fair and predictable – Compensation for violence. It is important for us to say that the Christian People's Party is also committed to getting back a solution that ensures non-discrimination, and a clear regulatory framework that facilitates efficient and high-quality procedures and decisions. That is why we look forward to a thorough decision-making basis when we are presented with proposals for new legislation as early as next year. Furthermore, it is important to establish legislation adapted to readmission cases in the framework of the Act on Victim Compensation. Victims in such cases must be paid out the victims' compensation they believe they have a right to. There's a big difference between having a real chance of compensation and having a theoretical claim, so you could say that the scheme works today. The Christian People's Party will signal here from Stortinget that we expect this work to be given priority in the ministry. The Christian People's Party therefore looks forward to the Ministry of Justice and Defence returning to the Stortinget in 2020 with a proposal for a new law on compensation for victims of violence. Then I would like to add that also mentioned individual matter, we assume from the Christian People's Party that it will be incorporated into the new arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e3897	This is an important matter, and I have a great understanding that it is very important for those who are affected to have a pace in the matter. The majority of the Judicial Committee now re-proposes a proposal to propose to the Government the necessary amendments to the Act on the Compensation of Victims and the Regulation, so that the time taken to assess the compensation of victims of violence in re-establishment cases goes from being the time of the act of injury to the time of a conviction of injury. As pointed out by the Committee, the Stortinget adopted two requests to the Government on 10 April 2018. The government was asked to ensure that the compensation scheme includes victims of violence from older cases and resumption cases, and that this would be done in the context of the follow-up to NOO 2016: 9, Fair and predictable – compensation for violence. I believe that it is just here that this work belongs to. I note that a majority in the Committee is not satisfied with the follow-up to the request decisions, but it has been and is important that we look at the whole system of compensation for victims of violence and how it should be organised. The background for this is the complexity of the Victim Compensation Act. It's difficult to access, and we just have to take a holistic approach to ensure a more accurate, efficient and not least predictable system. There are a number of changes and a number of changes in rates. It shows that this system needs to become more predictable. One of the reasons we're dealing with this matter now is that there have been many different rates over time. In addition to the 2016 NOU, the Ministry has obtained a comprehensive qualitative survey of the scheme and a qualitative analysis addressing the impact of victims of violence, with users and societal impacts in focus. The government is now aiming to present a new law on compensation from the State of the Storting in 2020. As mentioned in my letter to the Judicial Committee, the aim is that the work now being done will result in a proposal that ensures non-discrimination, effective procedural treatment and a clear and simple regulatory framework, including a proposal on how to meet the requests of the Stortinget in 2018. So it's not a political disagreement we're left with. What it really boils down to after this day is when the bill is to be promoted. Is it in the spring of 2020, or is it in the course of 2020? I think it might be a good idea sometimes to take the small amount of time it takes to ensure the quality of the law – for this should be a good law, it should be a law that works for everyone – and that hopefully we will not get back to the Stortinget to correct the law because it gets an unfortunate outcome. Therefore, I can't promise that I can get the law done before spring 2020, but there is no doubt about it: this matter is going to be prioritised in the department.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e3910	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e3915	Does the Council agree with the Workers' Party that this case is a gruesome example of injustice that should be corrected?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e3920	We believe that we should follow up the request decision, and that we will come to Stortingen with the changes that are necessary to do so. But at the same time, we have to look at the fact that when we introduce one time, the time of intersection, because when compensation for violence is to be paid in resumption cases, we also have to make sure that it is essentially important to do so in all sorts of cases. So there's more where the issues have been involved in the ministry's work. We are fully aware that this individual matter has given an unreasonable result to that family.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e3925	Two years ago, it was said from the Right and the Advance Party that the follow-up of the NOU would go quickly, and that this matter should be given priority. Does the Council of State mean that two years is ‘rapid’?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e3930	Laws take time. This is important, and there are great laws. There has been a NOU on over 186 pages that have raised many principal issues. There's a lot of things here that need to be clarified. There's a lot of important things here for the users to clarify. These include: on the right to a lawyer, how to do so when, for example: are two violent men who have been sentenced together for the same amount, where one can pay and the other cannot pay. There are so many such issues. I believe that those who have been subjected to violence deserve to have a proper and good law of compensation for violence now, which is based on good and thoughtful thoughts. That's exactly why you've got a NOU, in order to have a good basis for such a kind of legal work, and then it sometimes takes some time.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e3935	I thank you for your answer. I respect that it takes time, but I feel then that the Council of State will not recommend its cooperation parties and its own party to support the Workers' Party's loose proposal that new law should come before the summer of 2020, and that one must ensure the resumption cases, as the decision says. Nevertheless, it would now be nice if we could get a reason why this is not possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e3940	As I said from the pulpit right now, it can sometimes be good to spend the time you need, to ensure quality, and that you're sure that you can actually make it in the right way, so that you don't have to come back to the Storting with unforeseen problems that came up because you had to hurry up and finish a law. Lawwork takes a long time, and this room has often been a witness that if you hurry too much, there may be unforeseen problems that you did not think about. I think this is going to be a very good law for those who are so unfortunate to be subjected to violence, and I think it's going to be a law that can have a lasting stamp, and that's what we're looking for. That's why I can't stand here and promise it will be finished in the spring of 2020, but I'm going to promise it will be finished in 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e3947	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e3964	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, five lines of reply will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e3971	The government has implemented a structural reform of the police, they are planning a reform of the criminal justice system, and a court commission has been set up to assess a whole new court structure. The reforms are made separately with a focus on structure appropriate to budget and ideology. Thus, the entire criminal chain, including the subsequent criminal justice system, will in reality be rebuilt without first looking at the overall need. This is planned without looking at the police force that is left in the districts of Norway, without looking at how this affects the take-up of cases in the courts, and without ensuring that criminal custody is dimensioned to receive those who are convicted and provide them with the follow-up they need in order to become our good neighbours after the end of punishment. The changes in one unit affect the others, but they do not want to see the reforms in sufficient detail or properly investigated in depth. Gro Harlem Brundtland once said, ‘Everything is related to everything’, and this certainly applies also in the criminal justice chain. It becomes particularly serious when reforms are carried out without having been followed up with sufficient resources, which has had a major impact on the economic space in the police districts and on the presence of local police across the country. Criminal justice and justice have had major challenges as a result of economic cutbacks through the red tape and efficiency reform. The court administration has over several years informed about the difficult economic situation they are in. On the one hand, the ABE cuts carried out have resulted in job vacancies not being filled and on the other hand the necessary modernisation of the courts in the form of increased use of new technologies has not been carried out. A serious consequence of such savings policies to the courts is a long period of proceedings, both in criminal matters and in civil matters. This does not ensure legal certainty and it is serious. Norway’s human rights institution highlighted in its Annual Report 2017 that long trial periods in the courts are a significant problem. The issue was further addressed in the NIM’s 2018 Annual Report, which underlines that the requirement of independent courts can provide guidance for the financing of the courts and how the system should be set up. It's an investigation, as proposed in this Document 8, can help us secure society against it. The Minister of Justice does not see the need for such a sample to be set up. He believes that there is already a process that will provide a good overview of the relationship between the resource situation and the future needs of the police, the prosecution authority, the courts and criminal services — processes that no one outside the government parties and departments knows about how to implement, or which factors will be given particular attention. The Labour Party is clear on the basis of our support for the proposal put forward here. The criminal chain has to be seen in context, and a sample that really looks at the whole, not just shares it, will have great value. There is a need for such an investigation both to ensure that the government not only focuses on saving money that can be used for ideological tax cuts, but simply to ensure that its citizens get the help, security and security they need, and not least deserve.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e3988	The government is implementing important changes in the justice sector. Police reform is perhaps the most important and necessary reform of Norwegian police in history. The reform is needed to adapt the police to a new crime scene. We're also doing a work in criminal law. We build capacity and expand the possibilities of alternative housing in treatment institutions, home-society and fines. We're sending record-breaking foreign criminals to their homeland for a propitiatory settlement. All of this has led to the arrival of prison cows. Several courts have voluntarily chosen to join forces to provide better services. A politically independent court commission has recently provided an opinion with proposals for more mergers. The government has it for treatment and looks at what we can do to distribute matters better, deal with them more quickly and increase legal certainty, which the voluntary mergers show is possible to achieve. The proposers of my government don't see the changes that have been made, in context, and will set down another selection to assess the balance in the criminal case chain. Firstly, it is the Minister of Justice’s daily responsibility to ensure a balance between police, justice and criminal justice. We don't need a selection to evaluate this. If we're going to put down selections for all the issues that have to arise, we're going to make our top political leaders more or less unemployed. Then we will create a new political system. Secondly, I record a lot of things where the opposition wants to lower the selection for both the one and the other. Perhaps it is time for some politicians now to look down on this eagerness to turn down selections. A selection consists of the top experts in the country in their designated areas. We have to use our experts wisely, and we have to use them where they really need them, like for example. when assessing how we can achieve better case-by-case management and improve legal certainty. Thirdly, it is a bit strange to put down a selection before the police reform is implemented at all. We need to make good use of our resources, and as politicians, we should also perhaps show that we can face important changes throughout the race.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e4007	Preventing and avoiding lawbreakers is the most important thing, but lawbreakers will always happen. This Central Party representative's proposal is superior to ensuring reasonable progress in the state's handling from a criminal act, to those who have done the criminal action, get a reaction and possibly a punishment. Furthermore, it is of course about ensuring good and just processes, and that legal proceedings are carried out within reasonable time, including: for non-criminal discounts due to long-term use. Soning must also take place within reasonable time both for the one who has been condemned and for those who have been affected by the law. To achieve all of this, there are a lot of actors who need to do a good job at the right time. When we presented this proposal for a representative in the Centre Party, we stressed that the reforms in the justice sector are not put into context and that does not ensure a good balance in the criminal justice chain either. Police reform has already been mainly implemented, but most of the positive effects of this reform that the government has promised have not yet come. The government is asking for patience, because they, as we understand it, are waiting for the police to solve soon when it comes to criminal offences. While waiting for the police to deliver even more criminal cases to the courts, they have asked for a report from the Court of Justice where structural changes were part of the mandate. Statements by several representatives from the government parties indicate that the government is proposing to lay down a number of courts. To all intents and purposes, the Government Party is also planning a reform in criminal matters. If this is similar to the previous reform that the government proposed, it is among other things. talk about centralising the rental by prison. In the meantime, they put down a number of small prisons and justify the fact that there are too many settlements in the country, without enough attention being paid to what needs can be reported over the years to come. These reforms are not put into context. Nor is there the resource situation or the future need for resources in the various arms of the criminal justice chain. We in the Central Party point to the need for a policy to balance the criminal chain. Now one might well say that there is a kind of balance in the criminal justice chain at present, but in the form of a negative balance, in the sense that all three levels of police, courts and criminal services have too little resources. When the problems in the courts and criminal services are no larger than they are now, it is because this reform-dependent police force is still there. On the day of this coup d'état of solutions and affairs, the speed at which the government hopes for a solid reform, it will be seen to an even greater extent that the courts and the criminal services are underfunded. The central party is surprised at the lack of soundness of the government party. The government party performs in reform after reform — probably on purpose, or at best unconsciously — to ignore or underestimate socio-economic consequences by providing public services in large parts of the country. This creates large distances between the inhabitants and public services, while at the same time boasting savings potential and efficiency improvement. However, shifting costs related to the use of time and resources to other public actors and to citizens and businesses is not necessarily a matter of overall social savings – on the contrary in many cases. As an example, a structural reform in the courts will allow even greater distances for both private and public actors to meet in court or transport someone there. When large parts of our country with the centralization of government are emptied of important public services, it doesn't tend to secure and strengthen the value creation in all parts of the country, a value creation that will finance our welfare state even in the years to come. We in the Center Party believe it is important to see different reforms in context. One also needs to see the resource needs of the different strands of the criminal justice chain in context. It is crucial that we get a review that does not lead to centralisation solving all the problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e4028	A debate on a public investigation into the criminal justice chain gives us an opportunity to have a slightly wider view of the state of law in Norway. And even though I represent the opposition and it is the Minister of Justice who is now responsible for the state of law, I am going to be very careful to talk it down too much. In fact, there is a lot of good in the legal state of Norway. It's low crime compared to any other country. It is trust in the population of the systems. It is essentially quite good legal certainty. We even have free legal aid schemes, which we criticise from time to time are not good enough, but we now have these schemes anyway. It's just not that wrong, this. These are the basic values of Norwegian society, which means that we also have a legal state that actually works pretty well. It's weakness, definitely. We have a crime scene that's changing, and we're not quite able to deal with it. It's a development of violence in close relationships, and we're struggling with rape issues. That's a change. We see that an understaffed police definitely don't manage to convert to the new crime scene. There is a major challenge in the legal state of Norway. We see that we have a court structure in Norway that is significantly underfunded and threatened by centralisation, and where cases accumulate. The worst crisis we can possibly find in our criminal services with few employees, impaired rehabilitation capacity and lock-in. And as the Civil Ombudsman recently reported to the Stortinget, there is a high risk of illegal isolation – in other words, a violation of the torture ban. There we really have some challenges. So it's strengths and weaknesses. The problem that the Central Party points to in this proposal is that when the Storting discusses the challenges of the rule of law, we discuss them in part and in part. These are fragmentary debates. One day we discuss the police, the other day the courts, the third day the prisons. Then we discuss human rights among ourselves. This fragmentary approach to discussing the rule of law prevents the Storting from seeing this in a larger context, prevents us from drawing up visions and making longer-term plans. An example of this is the way the government, for example: has organised the debate on courts. There we are going to discuss court structure first, and then in another debate we are going to discuss the content of the courts later – a very fragmented approach to this complex problem. I believe that it is absolutely essential that the Storting between them be given the opportunity to discuss the whole and also how the different elements in the state of law relate, and how they affect each other. By the way these debates are organized today, we are prevented from doing so. The fragmentation that the Stortinget is now being offered as a form of debate prevents us from having more and more general and visionary debates. I have also discussed some with people in the trade unions, and they fully agree with this and lack a more general discussion on how to solve these problems. Another challenge with the fragmented debate is that, for example: The debate on the courts, which could have been an exciting debate on the development of the Norwegian rule of law, is very quickly reduced to a debate on economics and geography instead of being an important and visionary debate on how to meet tomorrow's development of crime. I wholeheartedly support the proposal of the Central Party. It gives us an opportunity to have a bigger and more holistic look. The Minister of Justice, in his letter to the Committee, has only come to a meeting where he writes that he will have an overall approach to this. At the same time, we now see that the government parties continue to want to approach these issues around the rule of law and the criminal chain in small pieces, bits and pieces, instead of inviting us to major and general debates, with which I believe both Norway and the state of law would be well served.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e4045	The Christian People's Party is concerned that the criminal chain is being seen in the context, and we have long been in charge and working to strengthen the economic space along the whole chain, so that quality and efficiency are maintained. For the Christian People's Party, we can show that we already have important budget victories in this area, even before we became members of the government, for example. by strengthening the courts. Now I am pleased that we can continue to work in government to strengthen the criminal chain in the processes currently in progress. The Christian People's Party supports the report that the Right and the Progressive Party have in the matter concerning the intention of the proposers. We fully agree that there is a need for an overall approach to ensure that the actors in the criminal chain are seen in the context. But I would also like to refer to the comments made by the government parties in the case, which state that there are already processes in progress that provide an overview of the links between the resource situation and the future needs of the police, the prosecution authority, the court and the criminal justice system. The Council of State gives a thorough feedback to the Committee through a letter of response stating that the Ministry is working on a comprehensive review to implement tools, methods and tasks, and that this will contribute to strengthening the various actors in the criminal justice chain. We have received a response to the Stortinget saying that, as I said, the department is already working on the processes that are needed to provide us with an adequate knowledge of the situation in the criminal chain. The intention of the proposal is therefore respected. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that the police be given the resources they need, that the needs be met in criminal matters and that the settlement queues continue to be reduced. We'll fight for that. The Christian People's Party therefore believes that it is not appropriate to use resources on a public body for an investigation at this stage. In this case, the challenge to the Council of State is action and management rather than investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e4058	I'm going to take the challenge from the Tuskedal representative. A strong and effective coordinated criminal chain is an important priority for this government. If I don't remember completely wrong, it was this government that brought this chain of thought, for example. in the State budgets and the preparation of the judicial budget there. I therefore support the intention of the proposers of an overall approach in the criminal procedure. That's exactly what the Ministry of Justice is working on every day. But I don't think it necessary and appropriate to use resources to set up a public body for a comprehensive review of the criminal case at this stage. There are now several processes that enable us to see the development of the needs of police and prosecution authorities, courts and criminal justice in a context. I fear that a new sample that is to be reduced now and see this in context, will only delay the necessary changes that we have to make. We already know that crime is changing. We know that globalisation and technological development have led to more mobile, organised and borderless crime. Although there has been a decline in registered crime for several years, today’s crime is more serious and more complicated to investigate. Targeted actions by the authorities have contributed to the detection of darkness, and an increase in reported sexual offences and issues dealing with violence in close relationships is part of the issues we are now able to address, which we were not good enough to address before. These changes are resource-intensive and challenge the capacity of the daily police. In cases of special time-limits, such as rape cases, it takes too long today from notification until the case has been investigated. The capacity and effectiveness of criminal proceedings in the police are still a challenge, and I have given clear indications that criminal proceedings should be given priority. Despite the challenges faced by the police in criminal proceedings, criminal cases are getting better today – of better quality and not least more researched throughout the country. It's not that the point competence is just in the big cities. Now there are also peak skills available both in Tingvoll and in Fräna. The quality of the investigation is a high priority in the police. Among other things, through the investigation promise, work is now being done to achieve a higher clearance rate, reduced processing time and fewer residues. And this costs money. The police have therefore been considerably strengthened since the government joined. The police budget has increased by 4.4 billion. kr real since 2013, and SEK 3.3 billion. kr of it is on the police operating budget. In order to give police districts greater space for action in 2020, 83 million have also been proposed. to the police districts for strengthening the investigation capacity and strengthening the investigation, and in addition to more than 100 million. kr to hire more policemen. Not only that, we also recognise that 2019 has been a special year of investigation. Both kidnapping cases and major net crime cases have contributed to an additional challenging year, and therefore the government in ageing has made a further 30 million. kr. It's not just the police it's interesting to look at, you also have to look at the courts. That is why we have received a very thorough assessment of the courts through the Court of Justice Commission. It's not like you've just looked at geography there, you've looked at what's going on to improve the quality and efficiency of the courts. I think one should take such a Commission job seriously and not just put it in a drawer and rather propose a new selection because one does not want to address the issues that are there now, because it can be politically costly. As far as prisons are concerned, there is no doubt that prisons are going to change, when we see that profit crime drops by 36 p.m., while sexual offences against persons under 16 have gone up by 162 p.m.. There is a big difference between a high-security prison and a low-security prison, and we need to adapt prisons to what we think those who are being convicted are going to be sentenced to. We see that there is an increase in serious crime, and then we have to make sure that we have enough prison places to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e4079	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e4084	The Council of State was concerned in the article that so-called necessary changes would be delayed. We in the Central Party will obviously delay changes we think are bad, but the background to our proposal now is a clear need for reforms to be seen much more in context. In a letter to the Committee of 14 October, the Council of State wrote that ‘processes are already under way that give us an overview of the relationship between the resource situation and the future competence needs of the police and the prosecution authority, the courts and the criminal justice system’. In the founding case, however, the Council of State is talking about the different links in the criminal justice chain separately and not about the relationship between them. But this is precisely the last time our representative proposal is about. Can the Council of State do something for what kind of concrete processes are taking place, and for the context of the criminal proceedings, which is going on?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e4093	There are a lot of processes, and I've already mentioned some of them. The work done by the Court of Justice has also taken into account what they expect from incoming cases. When we're dealing with a criminal health report, it's of course very important to look at what kind of crime is going on, and what kind of crime we can expect to happen. That's exactly why we've started these criminal justice processes: in order for us to adapt prison capacity so that we're sure that when pedophiles are taken, they're going to be put in a high-security prison and not just walking around in an open asylum.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e4101	I thank you for your input. How does the Minister of Justice assess the resource relationship between police and prosecution authorities, courts and criminal services today? And does he see the problem that I've been learning in my post, that the criminal record in the police is a real problem? And, not least, what will it mean for the courts and the criminal services, and preferably at any time, this stuff in the police department is loosening?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e4108	I don't think you can solve all the problems by creating different budget lines, for example. For who are prosecutors, and who should be the police. It must be such that the police officer to whom a budget has been allocated must be able to manage it in such a way that his or her district has a reduction in criminal proceedings. We are aware that just adding money to the police now to hire more police officers through earring is not good enough. That's why the government has taken the consequences and also proposed 83 million. kr to strengthen the investigation site, which is given to the police districts, so that police officers, who know the facts best, can distribute that money, in contrast to what we do in Oslo, whether it is then to hire more prosecutors or to hire more investigators. I think those who are closest to the users know the situation best.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e4115	I don't understand that I got an answer to the very question about this detachment, because at least when we hear the warnings that are now coming from the police districts, the criminal sanctions have built up a lot – the police are tidying up properly – while at the same time reducing both courts and prisons because we don't have enough cases. The question is really: on the day that a clot suddenly unloads and the police deliver far more things – if we can assume that efficiency is coming up later – will not this mean that the courts will need resources and space to get away from these cases, and likeins that one has prison places for those who might be in danger because of these criminal cases?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e4122	I think the representative has a little too much hope for the extent to which the criminal record is. It's not like we're going to blow up neither courts nor prison if we go away and get down to a lower level, as you had, for example. A few years ago. We're talking about that we're at the level that, among other things, we're at the level that we're at. the previous government was on. But there's no doubt that we're working to bring down the leftovers, and it's going slowly, but surely downwards. So it's the single district where it hangs again, and that's something we're working on. We have recognised that this is not going fast enough, so we have proposed a budget of 83 million. kr in the state budget to deal with this, so that we can strengthen the investigation capacity.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e4129	The centralisation of the justice sector means that an increasing proportion of the expenditure is passed on to businesses and residents, who are forced to travel much longer to obtain both legal services, to obtain passports, to attend court proceedings or to report cases to the police. I could think of righting from the Council of State if he thinks it's okay that expenses that he himself expects to save on the justice budget, instead of being passed on to the business community and the inhabitants?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e4134	Now the representative has concluded that we're going to lay down courts. The government hasn't. We have received the Commission's work, a proposal for setting up courts in Norway. It's a proposal we take time to look at, because that Commission also has many other important elements in it. They address important issues such as the need to improve quality and address important issues such as legal certainty. So we, unlike the Workers' Party and SV, don't just put it in a drawer and later like the problem doesn't exist. Let's take it seriously. But we haven't concluded that we're going to put down any courtrooms, as the representative indicates we've done.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e4147	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e4154	I sounded after getting another line. What I wanted to say last was that I could have thought that the Council of State could say that the mandate given to the Court of Justice did not in any way lead to the structural change, not to a single closure, because we have an absolute perception of that, at least in the Central Party, but we may be heavy-sensitive. In the comments from the Right and the Advance Party on the matter we are dealing with today, the following is stated. ‘These members indicate that almost every NOU is either shot down before work is started, while work is in progress, or before the politicians have read a statement of the investigation. These members find it paradoxical that the same parties will nevertheless order new investigations. These members believe that the more serious treatment of existing NOUs could provide answers to many of the questions asked by the proposers in this proposal.’ I want to use the opportunity to provide some advice on how the government party can proceed in order to reduce the risk of getting shot down by selection reports. The term of office and the composition of the selections that will be decomposed have a significant impact on the result. With regard to mandates, it is not possible for the government to give strong guidance on a certain result and then claim that the government itself does not have a position on the conclusion when the selection subsequently presents its report in line with the mandate created by the government. If you wish to obtain an open result, simply do not insert this kind of leader in your mandate. That there are different points of view represented in a selection is a strength, not a weakness. It's important that different points of view get caught up in each other. This gives us good judgements for and against, and not least provides a better basis for finding good solutions. Without breaking the meaning, the analysis can become too one-sided, even if the ones in the selection are never that good. Unfortunately, we have seen that the government has not been particularly good at ensuring wide representation, for example. from the districts. The right's own prime minister recently made the following wise statement: ‘Both residence and working environment affect perspectives and knowledge acquisition, including professional experts. The government must therefore be better placed to gain professional expertise from environments outside the Capital Region.’» I hope that one of our objections will follow through on future distributions. It is better with selections that divide in the setting and that give the different points of view a thorough and good basis than with one-sided approaches. In addition, it should be avoided that centralising structural changes should already be made to the mandate of downgraded selections.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e4175	I would just like to add to my statement that, of course, on behalf of the rapporteur, I should have thanked the author of the proposal for a good proposal and the committee for the work on the matter. The President is simply excused by the representative who passed this parliamentary custom. It is a little late in the evening in an active period for Stortinget now before Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e4180	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e4194	The size is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e4206	A total of 32 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 2-5, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 6-30, from Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 31-32, from Heidi Greni, on behalf of the Centre Party The President shall state that proposal No. 15 were drawn during the debate, and that D II is not taken up for voting because it is framework-dependent. There is a vote on proposal No. 14, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to investigate how employers can be required to ensure that employees are employed immigrants training Norwegian.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e4240	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6–9, 12, 13, 16, 18, 19, 21, 23, 24 and 26–30, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to initiate an agreement with Greece to accept asylum seekers from the camps in Greece for proceedings in Norway as under the former relocalisation mechanism.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to immediately stop the return of asylum seekers to Greece through the Dublin Agreement.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make proposals for legislative changes so that Norwegian citizens are not automatically registered for emigration in the People’s Register after two years.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asked to follow up the proposals in NOU 2011:14 Better integration – Objectives, strategies, actions, including a ten-year effort to get more people to work.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The size calls on the government to strengthen the introduction system so that all basic qualification can be included and completed within the scheme and to adapt the legislation to ensure the necessary flexibility in terms of length.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asked to introduce quality criteria for language training in the introduction programme and in the Norwegian system of law and duty and social knowledge for adults’.» Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a proposal to legislate for all children on reception of asylum.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The Government requests the follow-up of the consultation on reinforced requirements for energy-flexible heating solutions in buildings and implement the adopted amendments to TEK 17. ‘... Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government is asking how the organisation of grants and loans for rehabilitation, accessibility, housing and energy upgrades can become more accessible, coordinated and effective for residents and housing companies.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to make proposals on how a maximum price scheme in the cultural school can be implemented.’ Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The government is asked to establish the necessary requirements for competence in the local government sector in the areas of environment, biodiversity and climate.’ Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The budget asks the Government of the 2021 Municipal Proposition to submit proposals for stronger income equalisation in the municipal sector.’ Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The State asks the Government of the 2021 Municipal Proposition that tenders for county ferry and boat services are to be based on zero-emission technology and that the income system of the counties hereafter ensures the financing of the necessary conversion to zero-emission solutions in all public transport.’ Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The government is still asking for funding for psychologists in municipal health and care services.’ Proposal No. 28 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide different models to increase its co-financing of the scheme with particularly resource-intensive services and to extend the scheme to citizens over 67 years of age.’ Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the maintenance of the Y-block and, as a minimum, for the compromise of the Municipality of Oslo with regard to the Y-block, as the basis for further work on the Government Quartet.’ Proposal No. 30 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to propose amendments to the law so that unrecoverable asylum seekers can be granted a temporary work permit as long as they cannot be returned.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e4342	There is a vote on proposal No. 32, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to carry out a living conditions survey for older unresectable asylum seekers.’ The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e4359	There is a vote on proposal No. 31 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to review the prohibition of temporary work permits for unrecoverable asylum seekers and to assess the differentiation of the legislation, inter alia, for stateless and elderly asylum seekers.’;» The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal. The Greens and Reds have announced subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e4379	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 10, 11, 17, 20, 22 and 25, of the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that the introduction system can be linked to vocational training and adult training, so that secondary vocational training can be started and completed.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that the university and higher education sectors offer relevant and truly qualifying complementary education services to immigrants with completed or commenced higher education, in line with the recommendations of NOU 2017:2.’; Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals for amended housing support legislation to ensure that new workers are also receiving housing support at the level of the former, so that housing support as a housing social instrument is strongly strengthened.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to compensate the municipalities for the costs they incur from the fact that the fire service has to do tasks that are the responsibility of state emergency departments.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: «The government is asked to establish a State interest compensation scheme for necessary investments in infrastructure in the municipal sector as a result of extreme weather.» Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The government is asked to amend the scheme of urban and urban development grants in order to make them a mark-up to the municipalities that qualify for the grant without deductions in the framework of all municipalities.’ The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has announced its support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e4424	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2–5, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to propose, as soon as possible, changes to the integration system or the municipal income system which compensates for permanent expenditure so that refugees with severe health problems or disabilities can be settled quickly.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: «The government is asked to establish a permanent compensation scheme for the loss of income resulting from changes in property taxes on works and uses, which ensures approximately full compensation.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with proposals for the necessary allocations for speedboats as soon as possible.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to carry out a comprehensive review of the system of resource-intensive services and to ensure that relevant costs incurred by municipalities, such as: derives from the quality regulation and early outsourcing of patients, is included in the basis of the municipal excess.» The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e4458	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to change the arrangements for the district funds in order to contribute to the transition to a zero-emission society and business. Within such a framework, county councils shall have greater freedom to decide for themselves the use to be made of the funds.’;» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e6389	Behind the setting is the Workers' Party, Right, Advance Party, Left and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e6401	Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e8902	Behind the setting are the Right, Advance Party, Left and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e8914	Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e8945	It's over V. Behind the setting are the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The Green Party has announced its support for the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e8961	Furthermore, I, III and IV are voted on. The President noted that III was changed during the debate and said: ‘The government is asking the Government to return to Stortinget as soon as possible with a case of full funding for the transfer of the county road administration from the state to the county municipalities.’ Behind the setting are the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The Greens and Reds have announced support for the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e9052	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e9063	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a subsequent meeting of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e9075	During the debate, Mr Andersen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with a proposal on how other interpreters, such as sign language interpreters, can be recorded in an appropriate way’. The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e9126	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e9136	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a subsequent meeting of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e9148	A total of 24 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-12, from Rigmor Aasrud on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 13–15, from Rigmor Aasrud on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 16-18, from Rigmor Aasrud on behalf of the Workers' Party the proposals No 19 and 20, from Per Olaf Lundtigen on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 21 and 22, from Solfrid Lerbreck on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 23, from Per Olaf Lundtigen on behalf of the Centre Party proposal No 24, from the Bears of the Moxnes on behalf of the Red There is a vote on proposal No. 24, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to ensure that the work of clarifying the recipients of redundancy payments does not suffer from the cleaning up of the so-called Nav scandal and return to Stortinget if necessary for increased appropriations.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e9189	There is a vote on proposal No. Twenty-three from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to refer the matter to the Storting for the reorganisation of the Labour Inspectorate, which will apply from 1 January 2020. The reorganisation means that the management of the different supervisory compartments is centralised, there is no local management. This will provide more remote management, less cooperation across sections and more travel. This leads to increased costs for the establishment. The number of inspections could fall sharply in the future. The statement must document how this reorganisation will strengthen the main supervisory and control tasks of the Labour Inspectorate.’ The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e9206	There is a vote on proposal No. 21, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the maintenance of current legislation in support of the animal diet for those who need gluten-free diet until a better professionally based proposal can be promoted in consultation with the user organisation with effect from 1 July 2020.’;» Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e9223	There is a vote on proposal No. 22, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that activity aids for people over the age of 26 are treated in the same way as other means and converted into an estimate. The change should be made in the notified evaluation of the scheme.’;» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e9241	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 19 and 20, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘As of 1 August 2020, the Government will be asked to have clear legislation providing young people with the need for permanent work in such a state-funded place.’ [[VTA]] Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assess whether opticians can be used for visual inspection of children over the age of 5 years and that the survey is covered by the State.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e9265	There is a vote on proposal No. 18, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to engage in dialogue with the Cöliaki Association in good time before the proposed date of entry into force of 1 April 2020 for further cuts in the basic aid for cøliaki/non-cøliaki intolerance to gluten, in order to arrive at a agreed position on what are the real additional expenditures, and to return with the outcome of these discussions in the revised national budget 2020.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal. The Socialist Left has announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e9284	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 16 and 17, from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget as soon as possible with an assessment of the establishment of a Nav ombudsman.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: «The government is asked to implement an activity reform with a job guarantee for young people who can work in full or in part.» The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e9308	President! My voice was not registered.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e9313	The result is that 63 voted against and 35 voted in favour of the proposals. This does not mean that the proposals have been accepted. There is a vote on proposal No. 14, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for urgent action to be taken to identify the internal mechanisms of the Working and Welfare Act that have slowed down or hindered the expected implementation of the Nav reform, so that implementation is now proceeding.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e9332	There is a vote on proposal No. 13, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that all the municipalities of the country adopt a full-time culture strategy and to establish a state financial support scheme for full-time and part-time projects.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e9350	There is a vote on proposal No. 15, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking that the organisations currently exempted from paying the employer’s share of the State pension fund continue to benefit from this exemption.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal. The centre party has notified subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e9369	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-12, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for review of the Working Environment Act and for proposals to ensure full time’. Proposal No. 2 sounds: «The government is asked to strengthen the right to full-time employment in the Environmental Protection Act by requiring that the employer be required to assume his/her need for part-time employment.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The size calls on the government to invest significantly more in several areas of action, earmarked for work-preparation measures in training [[AFT]] Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that any enterprise and participant in the action will receive a sustained follow-up to the level of follow-up established by the HELT MED project and return to the Stortinge in an appropriate manner on its implementation’. [[VTO]] Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that the supervision of the Labour Inspectorate becomes more effective by increasing the use of an infringement fee.’; Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide the Nav offices with the power to take decisions on both performance and follow-up of redundancy payments.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make the necessary proposals for legislative changes and appropriations to reverse the tightening-up of the redundancy pay scheme, both entry criteria and the possibility of extending the benefit until completion.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the maintenance of the current staging system with a maximum limit of 52 weeks in 18 months to receive the daily allowance in the fishing industry.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that Nav changes its workplace organisation guarantee practice for disabled persons, so that written organisation guarantee is available at the latest on completion of work.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a system of health care in the form of a lifelong certificate for persons with lifelong disabilities.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that the National Public Health Association can receive grants under the heading of the State budget. 352.70, in line with other user and related organisations, for their participation and peer work for dentures.» Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The correction for the losers shall be granted 1 million. crowns from cap. 601 item 21 for the digitisation of the archives used for the purpose of assisting in the case of remuneration.’» The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e12465	Behind the setting are the Right, Advance Party, Left and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e12952	Points 3 and VI of A III and points 1 to 3 of B are added. Behind the setting are the Right, Advance Party, Left and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e12966	It shall be weighed over A III (2) and IX. Behind the setting is the Workers' Party, Right, Advance Party, Left and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e12980	It goes over the rest of A and B.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e12998	In the course of the debate, a total of five proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-3, from Rigmor Aasrud on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 4, from Per Olaf Lundtigen on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 5, from Per Olaf Lundtigen on behalf of the Centre Party There is a vote on proposal No. Five from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size asks the government in the social security settlement for 2020 to facilitate that the difference between the government’s regulation of retirement pension and an average of wage and price growth is set aside to increase the level of the minimum pension.’;» Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e13027	There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to make the necessary proposals to ensure that the organisations involved in the social security scheme are given the right to negotiate in 2020.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e13044	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-3 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘As from 2020, the government is asking the government to present the social security settlement as a matter of its own in the Spring Session following the social security discussions, while reintroducing previous budgetary practices, where costs were aggregated under the item of random expenditure.’;» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to file as soon as possible a change in the regulatory principles for current pensions from wage developments less than 0,75 pst. at the actual average of wages and salaries and prices.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assess the possibilities for re-priorities within the framework of the right to talk in the social security scheme.’; The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e13092	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Himanshu Gulati on behalf of the Right and Advance Party proposal No 2, from Maria Aasen-Svensrud on behalf of the Workers' Party The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e13111	Behind the setting are the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The Greens and Reds have announced support for the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e13125	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a new law on compensation for victims of violence, which ensures that the compensation scheme covers victims of violence from older cases and resumption cases, and presents them to the Stortinget during the spring of 2020.’ The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e13142	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Right and Advance Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to propose a new law on compensation for victims of violence and to present it to the Stortinge during 2020.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e13171	Behind the setting are the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The Greens and Reds have announced support for the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-05.ana.ud464e13208	Today's map has been processed successfully. Does anyone ask for the word? I don't think so. - The meeting's been cancelled.
