ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e25	The representative Eirik Sivertsen, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat. The called alternate of Nordland, Kim André Haugan Schei, is now taking the seat. Two permit applications are available: by the Group of the Left on the Permit of Representative Abid Q. Raja and by the Workers' Party Group on the Permit of Representative Åsmund Aukrust on days 3 and 4 October – both to attend meetings of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly in Marrakech. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Akershus County: Solveig Schytz and Mani Hussaini 3 and 4 October
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e69	Solveig Schytz and Mani Hussaini are present and will take the seat. The President will state that, after a check count in connection with the Constitution of the Storting, 160 votes were cast against the previously announced 159 votes in the election of the fifth Vice-President. It was 129 votes for the representative of Abid Q. Raja. The representative, Mr Pollestad, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e78	On behalf of the representatives of Nils T. Bjørke, Heidi Greni, Emilie Enger Mehl and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a full compensation for those who are under ban against fur management.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e83	The representative of the Bears Moxnes will present two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e88	Firstly, on behalf of Red, I would like to propose a fair housing policy through non-commercial housing. Secondly, I would like to propose a representative proposal to ensure clean energy for industry by stopping the NorthConnect cable.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e95	The representative, Kjersti Toppe, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e100	I will, on behalf of Marit Knutsdatter Strand, Geir Adelsten Iversen, Kari Anne Bøkestad Andreassen and myself, make a proposal to provide health care professionals with a statutory obligation to provide follow-up services for birth with more than 60 minutes of travel to the birthplace.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e105	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16 and that there will be voting at the end of the meeting tomorrow, Friday.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e123	The debate takes place over two days and starts with speeches by parliamentary leaders of up to 10 minutes, followed by a row of up to 6 lines for each post, then 41 posts of up to 5 minutes completed in full on the first day of the debate and distributed as such between the parties: Working Party 13 posts, Right 10 posts, Party 6 posts, Party 5 posts, Party 3 posts, Party 3 posts, Left 2 posts and Party 2 posts. It opens up up to four lines on each post after two of the posts from the Labour Party, the Right and the Advance Party and after one of the speeches from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party. Seven State Councils shall be given a speaking time of up to 5 minutes each, with a subsequent row of up to 6 lines. After completion of the allocated speaking time, open for articles of up to 3 minutes. Sitting of Friday, 5 p.m. 9 starting with an intervention by the Prime Minister of up to 15 minutes, followed by a row of up to 12 lines, followed by the remaining 3 minutes, if appropriate, from today's meeting, as well as those who sign up during Friday's debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e138	In the fall we are many who have followed the series on Einar Gerhardsen's life at the NRK. There is a strong story of Norway’s journey through major changes in dramatic years after the release. Policy had a clear direction: giving people in both city and country jobs to go to, health and education services, social housing and new industries. There was action in the face of major challenges. It didn't happen by itself. It was a dramatic and political battle, but the idea of a society with opportunities for everyone was strong. The modern Norwegian welfare society raised the majority and gave them security. The majority took responsibility. We do not live after a war and a liberation, but do we experience such action in the face of the great changes we are on our way to, in our time? We're going to make a big cut in greenhouse gas emissions, meet major technological changes, give young people hope for the future, put the whole country into action, create new jobs and provide more security for our older people. Do we live up to the goal of everyone coming along? We can do better than today. Instead of equal opportunities for all, differences are increasing in Norway. Three out of ten Norwegian households have lower incomes than in 2013. 10 pst. The North has 60 pst. of the wealth of our country. Instead of building stronger communities where we take responsibility together, the polarization between groups of us, often heated up by politicians, also members of the government. Instead of building Norway with equivalency and security between city and country, people outside the big cities feel pressure for services to be moved from close to distant – at the very end of the day by proposing a powerful centralisation of the courts. Instead of facing those who are struggling, vulnerable groups feel that they are being cut into benefits, such as when people lose their redundancy money and end up on social assistance. At the latest today, we are being warned about new cuts – or just a few weeks ago: the unacceptable proposal to cut fair screening of disability towards retirement. Instead of bringing the country together – all of us, women and men, families, workers, businesses and research environments – to a historic climate to cut emissions fairly, we are witnessing a government where each green step is to be compensated by a gray one. Norway can do better. We can do better together. The elections in the autumn and the negotiations in municipalities and the last few weeks tell of a political change. The choice was a clear no to more right-wing policy. The four government parties got 36 pst. by the votes cast. In 2013 only the Right and Advance Party got a total of more than 43 pst. For the Workers' Party, the election result was a disappointment. We gather to win back trust from the voters. We're going to do that every day until the 2021 elections. Nevertheless, we will have leading responsibility in many municipalities and counties. Up towards 60 pst. the population may live in a municipality managed by a rapporteur or mayor of the Workers' Party. We must be a clear local and regional counter-power against unfair and unsocial policies from this government. But then we'll see more. We're working for a new majority in 2021. What are the major challenges that we need to gather forces to solve together? Firstly, securing work for everyone is and will always be the cornerstone of the Labour Party’s policy – job security and security at work. The government says a lot about it in the throne, but it hasn't delivered the necessary through its six years of power. We will contribute to a serious working life in the municipalities and in the counties where we rule, and here at Stortinget we will make proposals. More should have equal opportunities and fewer should fall off. Many hundreds of thousands of Nordics are out of work. Many are squandered — seniors, young people with no qualifications, people with disabilities. We need an inclusive working life, and the key to that is competence. This is why we want to strengthen employees' rights to competence and to spend more money on a reform of skills that makes up a difference in the world of work. Secondly, the most important thing in life must be the policy — basic security, preparedness that works throughout the country, and not least a wage and a pension to live on. This means, among other things: the pension from the first crown for nearly one million Nordics who do not have this right, and that means that our older people will not go into the negative when the pensions are regulated, when the employees go into the plus. It is also important to ensure the safety of the quality of kindergarten, school, health and elderly care, regardless of the wallet and where in the country of residence. Then the municipalities have to get more money to ensure the well-being of ordinary people. We have proposed that six years in a row, and the right parties have voted us down. We also say no to the further commercialisation of well-being. We are not going to have large groups and chains into the care of the elderly and kindergartens. We can do better together. When we further develop the welfare state – it needs reforms, the time for reforms is not over – we need to place greater emphasis on people’s meeting with that welfare state: young people who are getting help late in Nav, patients who fall between all health care chairs because they have two or three illnesses at the same time. We're going to be ombudsmen and wives for them. Thirdly, we are going to develop the whole country, both city and country. We're going to decentralize what we can. We need a policy and a political shift that can provide education closer to where people live and where they are going to work, establish and provide health services closer to where they live, and ensure that districts – where natural resources such as fish and power come from – retain more of their value creation, for further development and investment. That's why we also say no to the last proposal to take income from the municipalities that have expanded the hydropower through history. So fourthly, we're going to make Norway's contribution to solving the climate crisis. It will require the very best of all of us. Our country is going through a great transformation. The Labour Party is in no doubt: the transition must be fair, perceived as fair and experienced as just in order to succeed. This means, for example: that we will not set an end date for the oil and gas business. Setting up 170 000 jobs in this sector, on dismissal, is bad for them, and it is bad for Norway, but it is also bad for the climate. We need the competence and ability of these professionals to further develop their skills, their experience and the knowledge of the research community. We can't set an end date for them. We need stronger industrial solutions to reduce climate change. Norway simply needs a new big investment in new and modern industries. We're going to work with them, not against them, develop, not liquidate. We need to make clear demands. Emissions shall be brought down. We are to work together in partnership with businesses and trade unions and build new green industries on the shoulders of the existing – sea wind, hydrogen, shipping and forestry – and we are to have great ambitions for large-scale carbon capture and storage. It is crucial for global success in cutting greenhouse gas emissions and achieving climate targets. The government's signals about this in the throne create uncertainty – the opposite of what we need now. The country needs a new direction, and then a new majority is needed. The Labour Party will contribute to this. Every day in the next two years, we shall mark a clear alternative to the right government's course that increases the differences and weakens the community. For Norway can do better. I would also like to refer to the proposals submitted by the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e192	The representative Jonas Gahr Støre has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e199	We have just left behind a municipal election that was probably not a super-success for either the Workers' Party or the Right. As far as the Workers' Party is concerned, we see that the representative who is now sketching is that he wants to go further to the left. He wants to go away from reforms he's been on. We saw this through the election campaign, where police reform was celebrated, and where many of the important measures in school policy to ensure better skills and quality of education were also put on the shelf. Does this mean that the representative Støre is now alerting, is a strong left triangle in the Labour Party's policy, as we have seen recent trends?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e206	What this means is that the Workers' Party is further developing a modern social-democratic policy that responds to challenges that arise, which reads developments when it happens, which sees that the policy the government is putting up for our schools, makes sure that we now have a record number of unskilled teachers in school, and that skilled teachers in one trade do not get to teach in that subject because they have bad or not good enough grades in another. That's the wrong policy. We're learning from it. This country needs new reforms. The Labour Party would propose them. We vote in favour of the reforms that we believe are right in the first place, and then we hold the government responsible for how they develop them. The police reform has not been developed in the right direction. People who work in the police, people who need the police, see it every day. We take responsibility for that, and we want to put in proposals that point a different direction to how the basic security services are being followed up and experienced by people.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e213	This simply means that when the Labour Party votes in favour of a reform or is in favour of something here in the UK, it has a deadline. One will look a little bit and consider what the Centre Party, the Red Party and the Green Party think, and then the Workers' Party will turn to the tile and say: Yes, Trygve is really right. That's what we've experienced in recent years, that the Workers' Party has always approached the policy in this way: yes, we vote in favour, we make a settlement, and then we go away from it. I don't think it seems like a credible governing party. The representative Jonas Gahr Støre referred to Einar Gerhardsen in the opening of his post. That wasn't the way Gerhardsen operated, that he kept looking around and saw how the other parties put up their policy, then turning the tile, turning the cap around the wind and then changing the policy? That's where the Workers' Party is today. One is not a credible control option when one constantly moves after what the other parts on the left are looking for. That is why I believe that the Labour Party is going to the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e220	Einar Gerhardsen was lucky enough to avoid entering into a conciliation with the Right in many cases. But what the Labour Party does when we make a deal is that we follow closely what's going on. We can settle on intentions – we have done so – but the experience with it is very poor. I don't say no to enter into settlements about wise things for the country, but I've had six years of experience with what this government does when it concludes agreements across the political dividing lines: they don't inform their partners, they don't inform about how development is, how the challenges come, how adjustments are needed. We have to sit and look at a development that is going in the wrong direction in relation to what was adopted. It says something about the experience of making agreements with this government, and we've learned from that experience. But we can think for ourselves: what does the country need? Where are we going? Where do we need to adjust? And we listen to people when they experience the consequences of a policy that increases the differences, which is unsocial given the needs of the North. In the future, the right will also learn that the Labour Party's voice is very clear on that. There's another majority that will go in a different direction, and we'll contribute to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e227	It's interesting that Jonas Gahr Støre started talking about Einar Gerhardsen and the TV series about him. In the past, the Workers' Party was a party to be trusted in the policy and in the conclusion of agreements, but in the case of the Emergency Centre, the Workers' Party has wavered back and forth, and in the case of the near-police reform, the Workers' Party has wavered back and forth. And not least, a short time ago, the Workers' Party also waved in terms of what is meant by oil and gas development in Norway, where Jonas Gahr Støre suddenly says that we cannot extract all the oil and gas reserves in Norway. Jonas Gahr Støre wants to cooperate with the Greens, which wants to shut down the oil industry over the next 15 years. It is then difficult to know what the Workers' Party really wants, and what welfare arrangements the Workers' Party will no longer have, when one wants to remove the most important industry, which creates incomes and values that enable us to provide good welfare services to the inhabitants of our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e234	It was probably an article, but I can interpret a question out of it. The Workers' Party will develop, not liquidate that industry. It has a unique competence. If we set an end date or wind it up, capital, research, professionals and young people will not turn to it – we need it. They shall be given new tasks and support to develop new industries that reduce emissions and deliver industrial solutions for them. I saw a good example of the earlier this week. In Longyearbyen, they fire coal for power. It is the most polluted city in Europe. It can be the cleanest city in Europe in ten years if the industry develops new solutions, with renewable energy, battery capacity and clean-up in new ways. That's the way to go. Then we're going to bet on that industry. The national assembly of the Labour Party adopted very clear targets. This is the whole Workers' Party behind it, it's in our program, and it's going to be our clue when we're going to pave the way for a fair transition, where people can get new jobs and be safe for their jobs, and where people can be involved in the development of skills.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e243	A well-organised work life is a prerequisite for a safe family life. It is therefore necessary to promote professional organisation and to increase respect for the practical professions. They are now lagging behind financially, and this must be reversed. Therefore, free labour migration resulting from the EEA Agreement, with skilled people from Eastern Europe who are accustomed to high unemployment and poor wages, is now the basis for declining working conditions in a number of sectors. This applies to professionals such as masons, painters, welders, livestock users, fish professionals, long-distance transport drivers, cabin crew, hotel and restaurant, trade and service, and I could mention many, many more. These are large, crucial professional groups that operate and build Norway every day. The working party says they want to take advantage of the scope of action in the EEA Agreement. Will the head of the Workers' Party take the initiative to regulate free labour immigration from the EEA area outside the Nordic region in order to improve pay and working conditions for ordinary workers in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e251	The working party is in favour of the EEA Agreement, and we believe it is a good agreement because it regulates the economy and sets laws and rules around it in a way that also makes it possible to have a safe working life. It requires a government that follows up at national level, which has an ambition for a non-social dumping work – with the publication of collective bargaining agreements and the application of Norwegian rules – and uses that space of action. Within this framework, we can both ensure the safety of workers in Norway, and we can encourage young Nordics to apply for professions that the country needs and which they may be interested in because they are safe jobs. They can be sure that collective agreements apply, that there is Norwegian in the workplace — important prerequisites for wellbeing — while being part of a Europe where you can work in other countries. However, this is to be done in accordance with Norwegian standards, with Norwegian pay and working conditions. It is a goal which the Labour Party clearly has in its programme.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e256	Like the representative Gahr Støre, I missed yesterday the climate ambitions of the government. Last week the government took part in the climate summit under the auspices of the UN Secretary-General. His goal was to bring in promises of greater emissions cut in the fight against the climate crisis from rich countries. The government had nothing new to come with. I'm not going to be the one standing here claiming that the Workers' Party has all the world to boast of in that way. But maybe we can hope for a change of pace when Gahr Støre is now calling for greater climate ambitions from the government. So then my question is: What increased ambitions do Gahr Støre and the Workers' Party think Norway should have in the fight against the climate crisis? What size do we have to take by 2030? And is the Workers' Party willing to stop the opening of new oil fields?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e263	The objectives of our cut are defined in agreements we have concluded internationally. It's absolutely crucial. I also believe it is essential that we implement them in a European context, in cooperation with the European Union, but that we also have greater ambitions: that we take the cuts in the so-called non-quota sector at home and send clear signals to our economy about it. It covers all parts of the economy. I experience a government sending unclear signals to people, businesses, all of us in the country, about what contributions they can make. This must also mean something in the lives of the individual family. We see that cities like Oslo and Bergen have cut climate emissions heavily because they have mobilized people to join in. We're going to have to reach the commitments we've made, and we're also going to contribute to the international use of our solutions. Therefore, the capture and storage of CO 2 is an area we should set in motion, in cooperation with Europe, in cooperation with countries internationally. It is also, as I have said, an active interaction with the industry to develop new solutions that go towards zero emissions on the base in Norway and that go towards solutions where we cut emissions in all sectors of our industry on land, which can also create sustainable export products.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e275	In a familiar style, Gahr stamps the great government as usocial and accuses it of lack of action in the face of social inequalities. But the Labour Party's challenge is that they do not have the ability to prioritise, and in particular we see this when it comes to children and young people. Where the Workers' Party prioritises universal action, which has a high price tag, and which primarily benefits families who already have good advice, the Left and the Government give priority to those who need it the most. One example is the billion-dollar pledge from the election campaign on free school food to absolutely everyone. Another example is when the Labour Party has gone out loud and criticized the government for increasing the maximum price in kindergarten by a fifty-counter, while they have been critical of the free core time system for them with the worst advice – this despite the fact that we know that the latter scheme is incredibly important for those children who perhaps most need to enter kindergarten. My question to Jonas Gahr Støre is: Does the Workers' Party think that giving more priority to those who need it the most, such as free core time for low-income families, is unsocial and should be discontinued?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e282	This government no longer prioritises those who have the least; it prioritises the great resources for those who have the most. They expect those who have the most work more and do it better when they get tax cuts, while those who have little will work more if they get less. That's the priority line on which the Left is in government. Providing targeted support to those who have the least sounds sympathetic, but it may be a trap. It can lock people in a trap of poverty. If you are under that income in the family, you get a good one, with school leisure arrangements or cheaper kindergarten. If you go across that line of work, you lose that right. We don't want to. The cash support contributes to the same. Universal welfare systems have their strength in ensuring the legitimacy of the welfare country. We cannot have universal welfare arrangements in all fields, at all times, even at a time when we need more priority. But I think the way this government has gone about, by the fact that a gift from the welfare state to those who have the least, and it often has to be paid by those who have a little more, is unsocial and contributes to increased differences.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e291	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e296	Norway is a society with small differences, with security and trust between people. In school, students learn more, health cows are lower than in 2013, record roads are being built, and unemployment is low – yes, actually the lowest in many years. But after a couple of peaceful decades, a lot of the world is again experiencing alarm. We have experienced an occupation of Crimea, hybrid warfare, terror, brexit and signs of global trade war. Events outside our realm affect everyday life here at home, for businesses, for employees, for authorities — yes, for Norway as a whole. A safe Norway is the foundation of the welfare society. Therefore, this government has had the highest priority of strengthening Norway’s defence capabilities and preparedness. The defense has been a growth win in the budgets of the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, and over the next 20 years, we're going to spend more than 1000 billion. kr to strengthen the Norwegian defence system. We buy new fighter aircraft, submarines, artillery, air protection, surveillance aircraft and much more that strengthens Norway's safety. At the right of the government, action to combat crime and strengthen preparedness in Norway is a priority. Since 2013, it has been granted more than 7 billion. DKK for civil protection in Norway and 10 billion. to various preparedness measures in the defence sector. Right is a party that's always concerned with evolution in the future, that we're pursuing a policy that helps to renew Norway and make our country even better. In the years to come, we must continue to work to create a sustainable welfare society. We who sit in this room have an important management responsibility for future generations. We have to make sure that the children who grow up, are safe for the climate, for jobs and for our well-being. The challenges for the welfare community are many, but they can be solved with the right policy. Climate change will be felt more strongly, revenue from oil and gas will fall, and jobs will fall behind each pensioner. To take care of Norway as the world's best country to live in, we need to convert the Norwegian economy to greener, we need to spend the money smarter, and we need to qualify more for future jobs. The main task facing society in the coming years is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. When President Trump has declared the United States of America out of the Paris Agreement and China continues to expand coal power, the world is too far away from the goal of limiting heating to 1.5 degrees. Therefore, Norway needs to work even more to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, but without stopping developments. About 80 pst. Norwegian emissions are subject to a charge or allowances. Every year, this government makes it more expensive to pollute because it is worth choosing environmentally friendly. However, the climate crisis is not resolved within the borders of the nation state alone. Climate policy must be based on global cooperation, where the world community unites on the good solutions. The world also needs countries like Norway, which go ahead and show that it is possible to convert the economy and cut greenhouse gas emissions without stagnating economic growth. That's why this government will do more. The task of cutting emissions nationally as well as internationally we are doing well. See, for example: on how much we have done and what has happened in the transport sector: This year, more electric cars than fossil cars are expected to be sold for the first time. Several electric buses occupy our cities. The ferns are electrified. Norway may become a testing country for electric aircraft. Electric recreational boats are being launched. Norway is first out to replace fuel pumps with high-speed chargers. The last step is to please me. I myself have been driving an electric car for seven years, and from having had a range anxiety to drive from Drammen to Oslo, I can now – with my new, cheap electric car – drive Oslo–Bergen without charging. It's called innovation and technical progress, and that's what we need in the fight for a greener society. But none of this has happened by itself. It's active politics. Springtime comes 'climate cure', a plan for how to cut at least 50 pst. It contains concrete steps that need to be taken in the industry for industry, throughout the country, in order to succeed in achieving the 2030 target. There is a lot of good going on in Norway. Economic growth is solid, companies invest more, and new jobs are created. The last decades of Norwegian history have been marked by economic growth and wealth. It has made us politicians privileged. We have experienced growing budgets that have given us great economic space to build a welfare society we can be proud of, all of us. Our schools are accessible to everyone, the health service helps those who need it, and we have a good social safety network. But when we know that the revenue from oil and gas will fall in the coming decades, we need to figure out what to live for to maintain economic sustainability. In the last year, the left has put forward several proposals that are moving in the wrong direction, proposals that restrict business and development, rather than facilitating growth and value creation. The left side, in its various shades, has said no to oil and gas, to parts of the tourism industry, to windmills, to hydroelectric power stations and to aquaculture. What are we going to live on then? We can't just discuss how we're spending our money, we also have to discuss where we're going to get the money, and we have to give priority to what the money is going to be spent on. We have set behind us a municipal and county elections where it has become even clearer what political alternative we have to this government. There is an alternative that says no to private contributions to welfare services, no to important reforms and no to the life assurance for Norwegian welfare and business itself, the EEA Agreement. The consequence of no, no and again no is that public budgets will explode, ordinary people will have to pay more in taxes, the public sector will eze, and fewer jobs will be created in private business. It is unsustainable because a still large and generous public sector requires high value creation in private sectors other than oil and gas in the future. As a result, one of the most important tasks for Norway will be to create more jobs in private businesses. To do that, we need a bourgeois yes-government, not a socialist no-government. The Labour Party has taken the line of Rødt's welfare policy: no private sector will be able to offer its services so that ordinary people can choose who will be responsible for care or home care. The right will continue to be the starting point for humans, not the systems. Throughout all years, the Norwegian welfare society has been based on good cooperation and sharing between public and private actors. Following the ideological principle on the left, we will have a two-part welfare society where only those with a thick wallet can afford freedom of choice. From the fisherman in the north to the builder in the south, and from the oil worker in the west to the forest user in the east, we are all dependent on the security that the good relationship with Europe gives us. Cooperation with Europe is important to ensure jobs throughout the country. The EEA Agreement guarantees that our jobs are competitive. We need more international cooperation, not less. A sustainable welfare society requires everyone to contribute, because the work of people is the basis of well-being. Anyone who can work should work – and no one should go out to date. We have to use the good times to include more in Norwegian employment. All those who can contribute must contribute to the maintenance of well-being, because it is people's work that is the basis for well-being. What Norway needs in the coming years are politicians who think in the long term. It is politicians who dare to give priority to public budgets, which ensure a stable and good framework for business, and it is politicians who put man, not the system, at the centre. We need politicians who run a policy that ensures a sustainable welfare society for our children and grandchildren. We need politicians who don't stop development but cut emissions. That's a good job for this government. We are not in the target, but we will continue to work to make Norway safer and more sustainable – because we believe in the future for the whole of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e368	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e373	The representative of Greece spends a lot of time in his speech talking about the policies of all the other parties, or at least their thoughts about what their policies are, so I'm now going to give him the opportunity to talk about the Right's policy. I record that one in the Right is more busy talking about falling registered unemployment than about the proportion of people in work, because compared to the same time in 2008, the proportion of people in work is lower now than he was then. There is a reduction that does not have an explanation — although the population has been older, there have been more education, the pension reform has started to work, it has been labour immigration to the country. We should therefore not see such a decline in the proportion of people in work. There's something that has a lot to say to people's possibilities, and it has meaning for the country's value creation. I wonder very much what the representative of Greece's explanation is that the proportion of people in work, compared to ten years before the financial crisis, has actually fallen.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e382	That's the first statement in the post of the representative Tajik I want to address first, because she said that I talked most about the politics of others. Well, it is possible it felt that way for the Workers' Party because the attacks were quite good, but I used approx. 80-85 pst. of my contribution to talking about the Right and Government's policies, both in the past and in the future. I was also concerned with the problem of unemployment. It's gone down. It's the lowest in many years, and I think we've seen a positive trend in employment as well. I don't have the exact figures on the level of employment, which the Workers' Party was very concerned about a few years ago, and which are obviously picked up again now, but the reality is at least that things are going well in Norwegian business. Yesterday we heard that eight out of ten new jobs now created are created in the private sector, and that suggests that we have a healthy and good development in the economy. One of the main issues of government is to include more people in the world of work, and that's what we work hard on every single day.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e389	I want to remind the representative that I am asking a completely unpolar question. I am simply asking questions about what is the representative of Greece's explanation that the proportion of people in work, compared to ten years before the financial crisis, has actually fallen. I want an answer to that, because when you look at the trend growth, it's like either a question about the Ministry of Finance or a question about Norway's Bank, they're at least quite a few of them saying that the underlying trend here is that you haven't been able to get part of the people in the job. The representative of Greece does exactly what I pointed out in my question, he goes over to talk about unemployment rather than talking about the proportion of people in work. But that's the part of people in jobs that has meaning for the value creation of the country, and that means that we can finance well-being now, and for the next generations. Why has it been like that? I ask my question again.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e399	I can answer the same question again, because my starting point is that the government – and I concluded the previous answer with it – has put very great emphasis on both an inclusion virtue and an integration virtue. There, of course, it is not done overnight to make all the measures work, but it is now very much positive, among other things. to get people who are immigrants to work in Norway and to get more young people who have had problems getting to work. So I can't answer here and now, as far as the number Hadia Tajik has found, from ten years before the financial crisis – I don't know if it's a special measuring point that the Workers' Party thinks it's right to use. We have seen that employment has improved in recent years, we have seen that unemployment has fallen, and that more people are included in the labour market, and I think that is a good starting point.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e406	What has happened is that the proportion of people in work seems to have stabilised at a certain level, and so he seems to have stabilised at a lower level than before. What I am looking for is whether this is something that the government is leaning on and happy with. After all, it seems that the representative of Greece, when all he has to come with, is to put forward some measures that he thinks have not worked, but no explanation as to why it has been, and no indication that one has higher ambitions than that one sees today. For the representative of Greece, it is clear that comparing it to 10 years before the financial crisis is not relevant, when the representative of Greece says that we have only found a reference point ten years ago in time, as if it were some sort of random time. The point is that you've seen the employment part stabilize at a lower level. The working party is not satisfied with that. Why my representative Helleland that this has happened?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e413	I'm not satisfied with a development where not everyone who can work is working. That's our main point. We want to include more in work, we want to do a job so that also people who have come to Norway, who have learned Norwegian, can be included in working life. We want several of those who have had problems getting out of work, who are young, to enter the labour market. This works with the government every day, and we're not satisfied. We are not satisfied until everyone is at work, until all those who have the opportunity to contribute to the welfare community contribute – by providing tax revenue, to the creation of value added, to creating private jobs and to Norway becoming an even better country to live in. For work is crucial for people's well-being, for people's ability to function socially and to be part of society. I'm not satisfied that not everyone is working, but I can't give an exact answer as to why that year Hadia Tajik picked up, stands out in a positive direction. It is possible that Hadia Tajik himself can answer that, but she has not tried that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e420	The representative of Greece was very busy with business and industry. One of the real industrial adventures in Norway is the development of hydropower. It's based in particular on the fact that we've been able to secure a national, public ownership, and that we've had a lot of wise and good minds that's been working on it. It is also based on the possibility of hydropower expansion simply because a share of the value creation has been able to remain in local communities. There has been a form of social contract between the community and the local authorities. Now there's a sample that suggests this removed. The central party believes that it is both historyless and remote from reality to abolish schemes that legislate the legal claims of municipalities on a share of the value creation from the hydropower. What is the opinion of the Right on the selection proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e427	Now the selection has just presented its setting, but personally I have been very busy with this for many years. I grew up in a really good power community called Ål, and I remember that the rapporteur in Ål at the time, who was Right-Man, was attacked at an annual meeting in Buskerud Right because the power municipalities had so much money. It was a delegate from Lier Right – of all things – who attacked him, and he replied that if he had been able to exchange the hydropower in Eel against the Earth in Lier, he would have assessed the makeshift. So this is an advantage for the power municipalities because they have made their nature available. I believe that the municipalities of power, the municipalities of Norway which have good power revenues, should retain these. How it is going to happen, how the exact device is going to be, I'm not going to have any opinions about, but I'm skeptical of violent and sudden conversions that will deprive Norwegian district councils of the ability to keep their revenues.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e434	It seemed to me that the representative of Greece might give an answer in that direction. It's going to be exciting to see if even the Right is moving in that direction. In that case, you will be able to drop this selection quite quickly. One of the things being said by the sample is that you can convert these statutory schemes of concession power and concession fee into the income system, i.e. compensate the power municipalities through the income system instead. Does the Right consider that there is a way to replace today's concession power and concession fee, or does one agree with the Power Municipalities, which seem to be an adventure and a solution that would hardly be appropriate, reasonable or solid for the part of the Power Municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e441	I think I made quite clear what I mean, in my previous answer. I have no party response to the challenges that the representative Marit Arnstad is addressing, as the committee has just presented its position. But my main point, as I think the Right will also be behind, is that the municipalities that currently have solid, good revenues, based on the fact that they have made their nature available, should also be able to keep them in the future. I think the system we have with concession power, for example, is a good system, and it's going to be very hard to convince us that we're going to change it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e446	The representative took up the welfare community, the security, that we have to spend the money smarter. He talked about priorities. But a sluggish economy in the municipalities does not contribute to good welfare, security, smart use of money or good priorities. At the same time, several services have been transferred to the municipalities without having any money involved, and on top of all that, we have a government that refuses to evaluate the interaction reform. Then I wonder: How does the representative think this is responsible money management?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e451	I believe that the premise on the question is completely wrong, as it seems that Norwegian municipalities have a bad economy. But this government has just set a new record: there have never been fewer municipalities in the ROBEK register, i.e. in the register of those municipalities that really have bad advice. So the municipality economy in Norway has been good, and it has become increasingly better during this government. The municipalities have a good starting point in order to provide their citizens with good welfare services in both school and health, and therefore I believe that the starting point for this government has given the municipalities is the very best.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e456	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e461	Yesterday there was a celebration in this hall when His Majesty King Harald opened it 164. Great and the king described a country where it goes very well. We're supposed to be happy about that. Then the everyday life is here again. We have a county and municipality election behind us, where the results were not as good for everyone. Whatever the result, the election campaign gives us a great opportunity to meet people and businesses in their everyday lives. As elected representatives, it's one of the most important jobs we have, and one of the most rewarding. Most of the people I meet are concerned with the safety of everyday life, that the children should have a good kindergarten – which is usually run by people other than the municipality, only the quality is the best for the children – have the best teachers in school and have a variety of offers in their leisure time, that the care of the elderly should be warm and dignified, and that the elderly themselves should control their own lives, also into old age. As politicians, we have to take people seriously. The slogan of the Advance Party – and my driving force – is a simpler everyday life for most people. For politics, everyday life – and everyday life is politics. I meet most people who are satisfied with their own life situation, including those who live in the districts, but that doesn't mean they're not impatient to do things even better, and that's also the Progress Party. Most in Norway have their daily work in the private sector, in small and medium-sized enterprises across the country, and we have been growing rapidly in new businesses for a long time, especially in the districts. New jobs are created every day, everyday life is marked by optimism and investment will, and unemployment is very low. Where the Central Party refers to people's dissatisfaction and complains about what is called ‘centralisation’ – that is a negatively charged word – I usually meet people who are happy that the roads are being built and maintained in the districts, who are happy that travel times are going down, who are happy that people and towns are being connected, and who are especially happy that so many jobs are being created in the districts where people live. The road sector was a long neglected chapter. With the Progress Party in government, there have been big things in the Norwegian road sector. The road transport company New Roads AS was an important reform, and now motorway capacity is being built faster and cheaper than before. At the same time, we provide good maintenance and reduce delays. In the future, we will further increase road construction efforts, new roads will have more new routes to their portfolio, and the use of tolls will be reduced. The party of progress is the party of the motorists, and we have to be. Roads and road traffic are necessary for the whole country to be put into service. In its time, the car, like everyone else, was a freedom revolution – and a luxury in the charging system. We have made major changes in this to the joy of ordinary people, who, thanks to the Progress Party, can now buy more affordable, safer and more environmentally friendly cars. We don't just build new roads; we make sure that those who use them pollute less and that the car park is renewed. With the Environmental Party De Greens' emergence, the car is constantly being attacked. It challenges people's everyday lives and is a concern for many of those I have met in the election campaign – who do not live in the big cities with a well-functioning collective offer. Now we see that the new red-green majority in the Gulf, with the Workers' Party at its head, will reverse the decision on the overall expansion of the new E18 westwards through Bærum and Asker. There are strong reactions from local politicians and residents in these two municipalities, but there is reason to react throughout the country, because the E18 is not a local road, it is actually an important tribal road – and we do not need reversal, not rematch and not postponement. Politics is everyday. Ideology is neither high-flying nor academic. It's about the choices you make, both the big, decisive choices and what you make from day to day. For many, predictability and security in everyday life are essential for working: family safety, for the job. In many district communities, the oil industry is the very bearer. The oil workers should not be ashamed – they should be proud! Oil and gas industries have a long future ahead, and Norwegian oil and gas remain part of the solution to the climate challenges. With an opposition that is no longer a guarantor of a responsible Norwegian industrial policy, this becomes a very important issue in the run-up to the next major elections. A policy of decommissioning the Norwegian oil and gas industry and higher taxes will destroy the Norwegian economy and not reduce global emissions. Rather on the contrary, because it will eliminate the capital – and competence – that can develop new technologies. Once, the Workers' Party was a party for reforms that would build and modernise the country for the better. Now we see another Workers' Party, a Workers' Party that can be pushed from many sides. The centre party has taken the will to change from them, the Green Party draws in an anti-industrial direction, and Red and SV make them suspect anything that is not public. Many traditional municipal services include both private and public actors providing services to users. Competition is in itself a good thing, and so is freedom of choice for users. Now the outer left will reverse the clock, replace diversity with monopoly. We see that this previously abandoned tank stuff also gets foothold on the left-hand side. The organisation of the service is becoming more important than the user's experience, and it is the classic recipe for putting the system ahead of the individual. Changes and reforms are rarely conflict-free, but they are nevertheless necessary and correct. I will give Mr Vedum just one thing, that is, the representative of the Battle of Vedum: I also meet many people who do not fully understand why the police reform is necessary. But then I suspect that the representative Battle Violence Vedum and I are talking a little different about the reform when we meet the voters, for many of those I am talking to have a greater understanding of the reform when we get divorced than they had when we met. Crime is changing and is becoming increasingly cross-border, digital and gross. It can no longer be managed from small labour offices with short opening hours; it requires sharp environments of competence, interaction and breadth. I wish it wasn't like that, but we have to deal with reality. Police reform is a demanding reform, and it is only in the early stages. That is why it is good that the Minister of Justice has announced a message that will invite him to discuss the status of the reform and discuss the way forward. The police have invested considerable resources, many new annual works, and we reach the target of two per thousand in 2020, but it is absolutely vital that people experience security for themselves and their own. Politics is about everyday life. Our collective responsibility is to solve the core tasks that the state should have in society. In this room we have to make sure that the framework around everyday life for people is most safe and good. But we're going to do that with respect for the responsibility and the framework we're delegated as elected representatives, and so that each one is still the best qualified to take most of the decisions for themselves and theirs – yes, much better qualified, at least in that area, than what we are.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e498	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e503	The representative, Limi, spent some time in his article talking about reforms, among other things. The police reform, and at least he expressed a degree of disappointment at the fact that the Labour Party can no longer stand behind the way in which the government has chosen to implement it. I must say that the government should carry out the police reform in line with the agreement. They have been shown to be unreliable when a person sits down and negotiates with them. I was the one who negotiated it on behalf of the Workers' Party. I don't know if it's possible for them to carry out the reform that's missing, or if the government's internal disagreements simply won't get them to do what's going to happen. For example, one of the things we were told about when we were negotiating police reform was that one should make sure that the inhabitants of the different communities, in the municipalities, were given a promise of what kind of police force would be present in their communities. It was supposed to develop a promise for the inhabitants. There wasn't one. Why hasn't one done that?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e508	Now, the situation is such that the police force in most districts is significantly elevated. There are more patrols out now than it was before. Crime has changed — crime has fallen. So I mean what the Labour Party is asking for, we see the outlines of now, because the results are coming. It is a little important to bear in mind that if a reform is first to be implemented on the basis of a settlement, it is important to be in it, to be in it throughout its implementation. I record that that responsibility can no longer be taken by the Workers' Party. Then we get four who are in government, make sure that we implement the reform, and then we have an opportunity to both evaluate along the way and discuss the way further when we get a message to the Stortinget during the fall.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e515	The representative did not respond to what I asked for. I asked a very specific question: in the agreement on police reform, it says that one should develop a promise to the inhabitants, that the police districts should sit down with the municipalities and do so. There wasn't one. Why hasn't one done that?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e520	That's not exactly what's said, because there's a dialogue between the municipalities and the police districts. It has been there all along, from the implementation of the new structure of reduced police districts, and it is a continuous dialogue. I think the most important thing is to be able to see the positive results along the way as we carry out this reform in full, and not just to focus on what is negative, and which is kind of the outcome of a difficult process for the police. We can do something about that, actually. We can tackle that and try to improve it. We also need to take advantage of this when we get a big message and get the opportunity to discuss it here. But it is not right that there is no concrete dialogue and close follow-up between the municipalities and the police in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e527	I have not requested a 'Current' dialogue, I have requested a promise to the inhabitants. I'm just saying that the government's party is jumping from the ones they actually wanted to give. I'm actually going to use these answers to say that I'm not going to get any more answers about the police reform, so I'd like to follow up with a question related to how the growth in Norway is developing. The representative Limi simply spoke in his post that someone wanted to build the country. What one sees, is that the three industries that contribute the most to the employment increase right now are construction and construction, industry and business services, and right there it's essentially talking about the increase being hired in foreign labour that's in Norway for just six months or less. My question is simple: how has the Progress Party planned to bring down the number of foreign labour hired in short-term employment, because this is not good for value creation in Norway. This will weaken our productivity growth in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e534	First of all, I have to say that we have made a commitment to the citizens regarding the implementation of the police reform: it is that we should help the police get the resources and competences necessary to combat today's crime and not what was yesterday. Employment is exciting. The challenge that the representative addresses with the proportion of contracted non-resident labour force was precisely what led to a peak of employment in 2008. Then it fell like a rock in the years that followed, after the financial crisis, and then it's a little bit on its way up again. Then it is that when we have growth in the economy, we also get fast capacity challenges, and then we are actually so lucky in a transitional phase that we can make use of foreign labour that has competence and that can work in Norway as a result of the EEA Agreement. So this swings. However, the most important thing is to ensure that more Norwegian residents in Norway enter the labour market and come from public schemes and contribute to their own income and to their appreciation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e541	The proponent of the party was concerned that they he talked to about the police reform were a little happier and a little more satisfied after he had talked to them. It reminds me a little about Anders Anundsen in 2015, who made an advertising film about how great everything was when he was Minister of Justice. Since the representative took up this team, let's listen to those in the police department. Last summer, 11 of the 12 police districts saw crisis-like conditions in the Norwegian police force – the eleven of them elected to trust! In January, a large survey was carried out among 4,500 policemen. 80 pst. Of the policemen who had responded, they said they saw no meaning in the reform. 80 pst. Of those who wear the uniform, they said they saw no meaning in the reform. In August this year, new figures came from the Police Joint Union, and then it was not eleven out of twelve, but twelve out of twelve police districts and trust-elections that were not satisfied with the reform. What is it that Hans Andreas Limi sees, that those who wear the uniform don't see?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e546	Thank you for the question. I'm dealing with what we have from the facts from the police, about how the police are able to handle the new crime scene. That's the way it is -- I think we're going to take it very seriously, and that the representative Battle Violence Vedum is right in -- that very many people out there are worried, and now I'm talking about ordinary people. They don't see everything going on inside the police, and they don't have an overview of the crime scene, but they experience what's happening in their everyday lives. If they do not feel safe and improved, and do not experience both presence and greater police force through the police reform, then we have bombed. I believe that it is one of the reasons why it is important to take a discussion now when this message comes from the government, because it is always possible to improve reforms along the way in implementation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e553	Hans Andreas Limi says that you do not see what is happening inside the police, but the problem is that large parts of the population of Norway do not see the police at all. That's the problem. A look-up in today's Evening Post says that 64 000 fewer assignments have been carried out now than in 2016. When you call the operating centre, you are told that there is no capacity to pick up the phone, that you have to call at a later time. Can the Advance Party live with that? Can you live with the fact that when you call the police about a break-in, about serious incidents going on, the answer is that they don't have the capacity, they don't have the time? The hard facts and the hard figures are that in 2018 it's almost 10 pst. fewer missions and calls than in 2016, when the reform was implemented. It's just as the Progress Party and Limi say, that more people don't see what's going on inside the police, but more people don't see the police at all. Is it time to start listening, watching and hearing and bringing police force out again near where people live?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e560	I think I've blacked twice now that we're just doing the last one, and there's one reason why it's important to take a discussion along the way in implementing the police reform. It's not right that there's no more police force out there. Today there are more patrol cars out there than before the police reform started. My point is that it's not as one-sided as anyone wants to make it as. The police have provided many new annual works, they have been given considerable resources, so they have every opportunity to deliver on what was required and the prerequisites for the reform. Remember, too, that there was a history in 2011 that contributed to the decision to implement a police reform. These include: Focused on that time, and which was some of the criticism from the Gjørv Commission, were just police operating centres, which had to become far more professional. It's happened. They have been given competence and more staff.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e570	One of the reasons why the Progress Party has made such a historically poor choice this year may be that the country's pensioners have had enough of unsocial cuts and lower pensions. For when the Progress Party arranges tax parties for the economic elite, they send the bill, among other things. to the pensioners. For four years in a row, pensioners have had less time to live off in social security, and this year they go to zero. Not enough of that, perhaps the worst reproach against Norwegian pensioners told the government about only after the election, namely the cut off in the incomes of disabled old-age pensioners and elderly dependants. Retirement workers who have worn out the body in hard work are cut off by the Progress Party in government. One of the most important choices of the Progress Party has been to improve pension reform, to change it for the better for pensioners, but the opposite has happened. Will the representative Limi complain about the lifting violation of the country's pensioners?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e577	If the representative's presentation had had a twist of truth in it, one might consider regretting it. If someone has sent the bill to the pensioners, it was the bulk of the population in 2011 who agreed to the underregulation. We in the government have tried to compensate for that. As a result, the same minimum pensioners have received a total of NOK 12000 more per year. We have reduced the abbreviation for married people and cohabitants, which represents NOK 8 000 per year. We have increased the deduction, and we have given concrete tax relief to the pensioners, so in sum we have managed to compensate – at least nearly – 100 pst. for the underregulation that has come as a consequence of the fact that we have also had very moderate wage settlements in these years. Yes, we would like to do more for the pensioners, but to say that we send the bill to Norwegian pensioners, is a rather monstrous claim that I hope I will not hear again.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e582	That's the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e587	Local elections of the year brought about major changes. For the second consecutive elections, all four government parties went back. The choice was not a protest choice, the choice was not a single case choice – the choice was a clear desire for a different policy direction. The choice was also a response to new political divides in Norway — between those who can rely on rapid emergency aid and those who experience state emergency situations withdrawing from their local communities. Basic societal preparedness has become a rationalisation project for directorates and businesses. I know from Snåsa that arguing for his ambulance to an enterprise almost feels like talking to a wall. New gaps are created between those who can take digitalisation and modern infrastructure for given, and the communities who are told that power cables cannot be built, that telephone lines are cut, that the mobile network is not working, and that can only dream of broadband at an acceptable price. A gap is created between the areas where state employment is estab­lished and the areas of the country where state employment disappears, without anyone taking any political responsibility for it. That's what we in the Center Party call the silent centralization, the one that's going on in each department, and there's no question of the overall consequences. The reactions in the elections are also about a government that shuts down hands and believes that centralisation and inequality are almost natural developments. This challenges people's sense of justice. It challenges the understanding of the Norwegian system. We are used to politicians who stand up and take responsibility for what is decided, politicians who listen. The Norwegian model is about well-being, but it is also about balance and equality between cities and countries. It is the balance that has been threatened over several years by the Right Party and the Advance Party of Government. The choice shows that people see that developments other than the centralisation of services are possible. Collars and magnification are old-fashioned. The election shows that people see that the government of the people is perplexing by the fact that more and more power is being left to a faceless bureaucracy both in the state and in the EU system. And the election shows that people see bureaucracy growing. When documentation and reporting requirements steal time and strain people's everyday lives, the trust we are so proud to have in Norwegian society is challenged. Now we're facing new road choices. During the election campaign I was visiting the South Sunnmare District Court. They do an excellent job. They have no problem recruiting people. In the court commission that the government has put down, they are told that they are too small. A new centralisation within the judiciary is underway, but the problem in the justice system is not small rights, there is a lack of capacity, coordination and resources. Centralisation is not going to solve these problems. Instead, it will once again mean that district municipalities will have to be drained for several hundred state jobs. The state will once again withdraw from parts of the country and hence be centralised into the major cities. There are several areas within the legal system where centralisation shoots speed. The Telemark police have suddenly asked the rapporteurs to join the Conciliation Council. The settlement councils are low-threshold conflict resolution and it is statutory for each municipality to have its own settlement board. What you want to achieve by centralizing these is completely incomprehensible. Then it has been a great advantage for Norwegian districts, which have given up land and natural resources, that they have retained a share of the values of the power plant. The government appointed a selection to look at this. The sample proposes to add revenue directly to the country — once again a proposal that will be a bone-hard attack on District Norway. It is interesting to see that the Right Spokesman in the debate is already withdrawing from the sample set up by the government and the conclusions of that sample. That probably means we are facing an interesting debate in the future. Already in the debate on the throne five years ago, the Central Party clearly stated that it was necessary to see the various centralisation reforms of this government in the context. We said that these reforms had one thing in common – they centralize power and pulverise responsibility, they reduce proximity and weaken local security and preparedness. The situation five years later shows that we got it right. Norway must follow up the climate commitments we have under the Paris Agreement. All sectors must contribute, and we must ensure that it is effectively and effectively cut, not that we introduce measures that simply move emissions to other countries, or that simply lead to greater emissions globally. It's going to be a big shift in Norwegian society. As a strong country, Norway must also contribute to more climate finance for other countries. If the climate battle is to be won, the vast majority must end up with these changes. Climate solutions must then be socially and geographically fair and must be sustainable in the long term. Therefore, the centre party has asked questions about increased charges, whether there is a good response in climate work in itself. We cannot balance the environmental profile and budget balance with new taxes that affect everyone without taking into account residence and income. The centre party believes that the oil and gas industry still has a place in our business. We need to build a bridge between today's oil industry and over to CO 2 capture and storage, hydrogen use and investments in renewable energy as possible solutions in climate change. If we are to make it, we must also build on today's industry. We need all good heads, all the will for technology development and all the capital that that industry holds today. We need a climate policy that builds up under, and that works together with, other important societal goals. We need a climate policy that ensures settlement throughout the country and growth in the business world, and that is adapted to the reality that most people relate to. We all have opportunities to meet climate goals, but we can fail if groups in society feel that they are punished because they earn little, or because they live outside the big cities. In the climate field more than in any other area, the recipe for success is that everyone has to be included. The debate on the throne is the debate on the opposition, but today we almost do not know how to meet a government with as extensive internal conflicts as this government has. In recent times, we've seen a prime minister move out and say that her own government parties have to sit down and talk to each other instead of arguing against each other. It's almost a failure statement in itself. The story of today's government is the story of four parties that seem most concerned about holding on to their own power, no matter what principle they have to four on. In addition to an unbelievably centralised approach, it is difficult to see whether there is a large joint project or some common direction that unites this government. On the other hand, this pointless project has had major negative consequences for very many people. It has given us a pointless regional reform, among other things. with a Fold for which almost no one is. It has meant a strong attack on the freedom of nutrition and perhaps ruin for the fur farmers who have now been banned from working. It has meant the centralisation of thousands of state jobs and a police reform that is out of course. The government almost seems to take it for granted that the voters should accept that they are still talking to two tongues. The so-called'solberg parliamentarism' is no longer a safety valve; it is no longer an emergency solution; it seems to have become the rule of government. It has gone so far that you have to ask yourself whether this government has what is needed to lead the country. Right now, today's government appears primarily as a collection of parties and state councils that continuously operate crisis management. With that, I'd like to raise the proposal of the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e626	The representative of Marit Arnstad has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e633	In this article, there was a great deal of focus on centralisation. Only in the last 30 years have 200,000 Norwegians moved from town to town. In addition, the population growth of 1.2 million comes in densely populated areas and cities. We've seen this trend all over the Western world in the last 100 years. That also happened when the Senterpartie put in government. The trend is the same: people move from the countryside to densely populated areas. For the Right, it's important that we have the ability to reform and address the challenges that society has when both research and the professional environment provide advice that we need to change. The centre party is an expert, as we heard, calling for all these reforms and measures that the government has seen to meet this challenge, for centralisation. But the government doesn't do this to change Norway. The government does this because Norway has actually changed – with quite large movements among its inhabitants. I haven't heard a single good suggestion from the Center Party about how they want to counteract these changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e642	Obviously, people move on. Youths move out and train, some move home, and some find themselves getting married and moving somewhere else. That's not what we're talking about here. What we are talking about is this government's planned changes in the public sector, where they carry out structural reform after structural reform, and where the only goal is to centralise government services. That's what we're talking about here. The Court Commission is the last example in the sequence. The Court of Justice Commission proposes, without exception, to centralise the new jurisdictions of the largest cities. Hundreds of State jobs must be removed from the different counties and must enter the major cities. That's what we're talking about -- the planned structural change and centralisation that this government has now implemented in six years, and that the Center Party has pointed out every single time. Our answer to that is closeness. We believe that there should still be closeness to people when it comes to public services. And we believe that in the area of municipal reform and regional reform, there must be voluntary action at the bottom.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e647	Legal security is of course one of the reasons for the changes that come when it comes to the courts. But in the post, the representative Arnstad insisted that a transferred power from democracy to state bureaucracy. A few years ago, the government put forward a proposition that would give the municipalities much greater power in the planning and building laws to ensure that businesses developed in urban and rural areas – in our rural areas. The centre party then chose to vote against. Why does the Central Party not want the municipalities themselves to be allowed to take greater responsibility in land policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e652	Sometimes when I get lines from the Right, I wonder if the Right really understands what the Center Party is talking about. It's possible they don't. In the election campaign, I met a business life manager from the Moor side, and he said to me: I agree with you in the Center Party, and the reason why I am, is that we who run businesses in the districts, realize that we depend on the public sector. Public sector and business must both develop in our area in order for it to work well. You can't build up the public sector. It's his grip on it, and I hope you listen more to business leaders out in the districts when they emphasize just that. In terms of land policy in the districts, the Central Party believes that municipalities should have more grip on law and such things, and we have followed the Right in a lot of suggestions on that very thing. What Trellevik brings out here, is a little suggestion where we had a little bit different vision, but in many other cases in this particular case, we have actually supported the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e663	One thing is at least certain: there is a little difference between the arguments of the representatives of Battle Violence Vedum and Arnstad or the way to argue. I believe the Center Party has been allowed for too long to blackmail developments in the districts, completely without dealing with facts. Does the Centre Party know that the number of full-time farmers was halved by the Centre Party in the Ministry of Agriculture? With the Progress Party in government, the number of full-time farmers has actually increased by almost 5 pst. Does the Senterpartiet know that the farmers have had a significantly better income development below us than with the Senterpartiet in the Ministry of Agriculture? Does the Senterpartiet know that they averaged 24 small primary schools per year, while 11 have been laid down per year under this government? Does the Senterpartiet know that emergency functions were put down in four hospitals under the red-green ones, against two under us? Does the Central Party know that they laid down six food departments, against two under this government? Or is this something the Center Party does not know, or perhaps chooses to ignore, because it fits very poorly into their story, and had made slogans like ‘near people’, ‘making use of all Norway’ and ‘seeing all Norway’ sound both hollow and quite dubious? Actually, there was probably more centralization with the Center Party in government than with the Advance Party in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e668	We are different people, so there are differences between me and Trygve Battle Force Vedum, just as Bård Hoksrud is not as similar to Siv Jensen, in and of itself. And now we're going to have to accept that we have a little bit of a different form and a little bit of a different way of looking at it. The central bank has been involved in centralisation is the planned and systematic centralisation undertaken by this government. Obviously, we all see that there are changes in society. For example, for agriculture it has been a huge increase in productivity in the last 30 years, at least, so it's clear that we see this. However, with regard to the systematic, planned review of the sector by sector where this government wants centralisation – the police reform, the municipal reform, the Nav offices, the tax offices, and what is now being done within the courts, with the desire for centralisation within the rule of law – not all of this comes of itself. It is planned by the Right and Advance Party of Government. I also have to say that there are actually twice as many municipalities that now have population decline – from 2013 until 2018 – as when we left the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e678	First of all, I must congratulate the representative on the election. I don't know if that's why she's also dressed a little red. We on the red-green side might be able to congratulate each other. The SV and the Senterpartie largely agree on district policy. We are shoulder to shoulder in a lot of cases, but in one field, there is something I have reacted to for a very long time, and this concerns transport and the support of the Central Party for the major motorway projects. This is not least reflected in the question of the free E39. I have raised this question several times with Arnstad's Central Party colleagues, and they have shown my understanding of it, that the small district roads will suffer in terms of racial protection, middle parts, wider roads, yellow middle stripe, etc. Would the representative Arnstad be involved in increasing that understanding and joining SV in order to give more money to the district roads?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e687	Firstly, I have to be allowed to repeat the congratulations. SV also made a very good choice. It was nice for both of us. The centre is engaged in road development and road development in the districts, and in many districts in Norway there is no alternative. It's the road that's the means of transport. I think 75 pst. transport work in Norway is on the road, so we believe it is good and important to have good roads. But we are not unconditional, because we see that there are some road projects that are developing in a way that is unfortunate, both cost-effective and environmental. I think it's necessary that one think about one more time when it comes to E39 over Bjornafjord – I mean it. The development and cost increases we have seen in that project mean that that project needs to be reviewed. The second is that today we are proposing to scale down the E18 westwards, out of Oslo. In Oslo, there is a lot of community traffic, and having such a gigantic project west from Oslo is unfortunate in terms of the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e696	Geir Pollestad from the Center Party wrote the following at no.no/yielding: ‘The words of Gretha Tunberg in the UN General Assembly on Monday were engaged, angry and serious. The words of Thunberg, however, did not meet me. I fundamentally disagree that bad conscience, shame or threats will solve the climate crisis.’ Further: ‘Despite the seriousness of the climate crisis, it is alarming that the will to do more is not greater.’ And... ‘I believe that the climate movement must take a significant responsibility for its becoming so.’ In order to appear to be a popular climate party, the Centre Party has no scruples about pushing committed youth and volunteers who make a decisive effort at leisure for the environment, above all themselves. The question is, doesn't the Centre Party have any locks at all when it comes to the use of electoral populist rhetoric, even when not young and idealistic volunteers are screened from being used?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e718	The centre party and Geir Pollestad have a strong commitment to the climate. We have wanted a debate on some of the instruments of climate policy. We believe that this is a necessary and important debate. As I tried to say in my post, I believe that in the climate struggle – more than in any other area of society – it is important to bring everyone in. Then one must also look at how the individual instruments turn out. I think the Center Party is behind 95 pst. of the current climate policy in Norway. We want to fulfill the Paris Agreement, we want to go society in a greener direction, but we don't want to create big social and geographical divisions at the same time. That's a little bit of a problem. I think it is a pity that we have a debate on the debate and a debate on people. I don't think we need that. I think we need a debate on the instruments themselves in the future. We are promoting five proposals here today. The left is free to support them if they find it too good.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e727	Let me first take the opportunity to congratulate the representative of Arnstad on a very good election result for the Central Party. So the representative Arnstad knows that many workers and self-employed people in typical district industries voted for her party this year: fishermen, farmers and employees in the farming industry and the fishing industry. Common to these voters is that they are employed either in enterprises that rely on free access to the EU internal market or in industries that provide safe and predictable revenues because Norway has the right to have its own fishing resources and an import protection that is essential for Norwegian agriculture. The guarantee of market access in the EU for Norwegian export companies is contained in the EEA Agreement. The same applies to the negotiated derogations which guarantee the autonomy of Norwegian fishing resources and an active import protection for Norwegian agriculture. Can the representative Arnstad promise its voters that the Centre Party will not risk thousands of jobs and Norwegian agriculture import protection by going to 2021 elections on a programme requiring renegotiation of the EEA Agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e736	Norway is an open country. We have been for many, many decades, both before and after the EEA Agreement. But we are dependent on good trade relations with our neighbours – we export a lot of the goods we produce, and it is the Central Party's concern that we will also do in the years to come. The Christian People's Party and the Centre have different views on the EEA Agreement. The centre party wishes to ensure good trade relations, but without an EEA agreement. We have a free trade agreement that is at the bottom of today's EEA agreement, which ensures customs freedom for all industrial products, except processed fish, and we believe that it should be a tool for our trade relations in the future. The problem with the EEA Agreement is that it requires us to be involved in financial supervision, to enter into ACER – it binds our transport policy, our working life, our energy policy. That's not good. Therefore, the Centre Party believes that other ways of organising trade policy cooperation with the EU should be looked at. After all, we have good trade policy cooperation with a number of countries in the world other than the EU today, without that being a problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e743	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e748	We have a Prime Minister in Norway who spends a lot of his or her working time on persistent crisis therapy and crisis management. Then it's interesting to see what kind of crises she spends most energy on. If we, for example, Comparing the management of the climate crisis, the greatest issue of our time, with the management of the crisis in our own government, gives us a very clear picture. As far as the climate crisis is concerned, the government has no new promises to make, still no large social plan to achieve the climate goals, still no willingness to meet the demands of striking students, while in dealing with the life crisis in its own government, we have seen two months of crisis meetings, ultimatum and billions on the table to resolve its own crisis. That tells us a lot about the priorities. I also noticed that Erna Solberg commented on Greta Thunberg in connection with her being in New York, and thought it was good that she spoke in the UN – I agree – but that she should also get back to school. I believe that the problem with Greta Thunberg and other strikers is that as long as they follow the rules, powerful people do not listen, like Norway's Prime Minister. The status of this government is increasing last year's emissions, lack of commitment to carbon capture and storage, new oil licences instead of reducing oil dependence and heavy motorway construction. As our young people strike, the leaders win inch eights and the climate scientists make new alarms, we see that developments are getting worse. This applies, for example: the Amazon rain forest fires. The more rainforests are destroyed, the shorter time we get to fight the climate crisis. That's why conserving the rainforest is a matter of fate. But just as the Brazilian president began to feel the international press earlier this fall, he was saved by a great diplomatic victory, namely that the EU and EFTA agreed to conclude the negotiations on a free trade agreement and with it gave the opportunity to use the trade agreement to push for protection of the rainforest. Now the Austrian Parliament has asked the government to veto the EU agreement. In that case, the Storting should also cancel the EFTA agreement. We need to be fully transparent about this, and the government needs to resume negotiations with Brazil, so that we do not get a trade agreement until we have the necessary protection of the rainforest in place. It promotes SV's proposals today. Then the green shift has to be fair, not only because justice itself is an important value to our society, but also because it has to be if the green shift is to be something of. A society with small differences and strong communities is incredibly much better equipped to make major changes than societies with great inequalities where people have little confidence in each other. In addition, the green economy and the fairer economy deal with much of the same. The market cannot be determined because it chooses what pays in the short term instead of what is needed in the long term. Therefore, more governance of the economy is needed to put the environment and people first. Norway needs a green new deal. If the climate had been a bank, it would have been saved for the longest time. It is natural, I think, to compare how we, as a society, face a financial crisis – then there is no limit to how much resources are mobilised – with the lost response to the climate crisis. We now need a social plan to achieve the climate goals. A green new deal has to achieve three things: a green transition that provides rapid climate change, so that we reach the targets in 2030, which SV believes should be cut to 60 pst. a green transition that develops, preserves and creates jobs, so that when we phase out fossil energy, we get stronger industries and more jobs, not industrial death and unemployment a green transition that takes care of the best with Norway: small differences and strong communities Then we have to implement climate action that also contributes to fair distribution, or compensate people with low incomes if that is not possible. Because the government lacks a plan, and because we have a plan, we ask the Stortinge to put down a green new deal commission, that proposal we have promoted today, so that we get started with a social plan for the green transition towards 2030. This government is deeply unpopular — not because of the life crisis, but because, among other things, it does. pursues a policy of divergence contrary to that on which Norway is based. Norway is built as a country for the many, not for the few on top. Under this government, we see a working life where work is going on, we see a tax policy that is correcting the tax system for the rich, and we see that the safety net in the welfare state is being cut into holes through a series of unsocial cuts. It is interesting to see that there were some leaks left from this government that they did not take out in the election campaign. It was e.g. the leakage of wanting to carry out cuts in benefits for young people — in redundancy benefits — who arrived today, and the proposal to cut unemployed old-age pension, which came last week. It's suggestions that once again build on the logic we've seen to shape this government, that while what's going on to get rich people to deliver more, is that they get more, what's going to do to get poor and sick people to provide more, that they get less. But poverty has never done anything healthy, poverty has never given a job, poverty keeps people down. Therefore, these measures will not contribute to anything other than increased differences and more poverty. I want to challenge the leader of the Christian People's Party to take the floor in this debate and say what the Christian People's Party believes about the new proposal that has come today on further cuts in the redundancy money. Because we're going to remember that it's only because of the blue choice of the Christian People's Party that this is possible. It is because there is a majority of an unsocial right-wing policy for which there is really no majority in this Chamber, that is possible. It's an unfortunate situation, and many of those who have the least in Norwegian society pay the price for it. We have to go back to a policy that is for the many in this country, not for the few at the top. It means taking a settlement with the rigging of the tax system for the rich, and that means taking a settlement with the long sequence of unsocial cuts that affects those who have the least. If the goal is – and that is it – that more people should participate in the world of work, when we do not do so by making well-being more unfair but by making working life fairer. Finally, I think it must also be mentioned in this debate that since the last Stortinget was gathered, we have experienced an attempt at terror against Norwegian Muslims in Bærum. Many with Muslim background know of an insecurity that is not to live with for us as a community. That is why I would urge the government to give priority to the action plan against Islamofophobia which the Prime Minister has said in a commendable way that she will implement. I'm very happy about that. Having effective counter-terrorism is about good preparedness, but creating a clear sense of security for people is about something more. It's also about how the community in daily life stands up for minorities who feel the pressure, how we, as a society, meet conspiracy theories and hate, whether this is confirmed or rejected, how we as a society treat people who feel insecure, whether they're turned around, or whether they're getting fear reinforced. A government party playing conspiracy theories in the campaign is a serious thing, I think. Therefore, it is important that it is also stated in this debate that there is no paralysis in Norway. On the other hand, we have seen a ‘snick normalisation’ of the kind of rhetoric on the civil side, where the settlement with it comes too rarely. Therefore, it was liberating with the President of the Vice-President's settlement earlier this fall, but it also reveals a frontier-breaking political spat for them in bourgeois camp responding to this rhetoric. Because it's government cooperation that's the problem. You don't fight right-wing populism by going to government with right-wing populists. There's another reason to start the job of replacing this government. With that I would like to address the SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e800	Then the representative Audun Lysbakken has drawn up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e807	As we heard in the post of the representative Audun Lysbakken, SV likes to criticize the government for being responsible for the increase in differences. Now we have passed over 100,000 children in Norway living in households with persistent low incomes. It's not good, and I think that I and the representative – from the same state, but from another party – are in complete agreement that there is a development we have to turn around. However, the development is not due to the fact that this government has a completely different tax policy than the SV would wish. It is a fact that immigration is the main reason for this. It is because the largest growth of children in low-income families is just in immigrant families. Many immigrants have a weaker connection to the labour market than the rest of the population. Does SV recognize that this is an important premise and perhaps the most important factor in increasing differences?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e817	Now I was going to answer that I was happy that the Progress Party was finally clear on the facts, but then it became messy in the last sentence from the representative Hemdal. No — immigration is not the main reason why differences are increasing. It is also stated in the government's own notice that the main reason for the increase in differences is that the richest withdraw. The government's policy is, to put it mildly, harmful. As regards poverty among families with children, it is quite right that very many have a minority background. It is also true that there will be more poor children with ethnic Norwegian backgrounds. Therefore, one should not do this just as a matter of immigration. But good integration policy is an important part of the answer to poverty. We have to have both long-term and short-term objectives. The long-term goal is to get parents to work. But if we are to have children in the short term, regardless of background, out of poverty, we have to do something about the incomes of these families here and now, and then increased child welfare is the most important measure.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e826	At the same time as SV now provides this justification, they want a dramatic increase in the number of quota refugees. They will eliminate income and living requirements for family reunification and will remove the rules for temporary residence for lone minor asylum seekers. Does SV recognise in any way that their policies will actually lead to more families knowing the challenges of living with persistent low incomes? Do you recognise that you cannot practice — what to say — such a frontierless immigration policy and at the same time do you not accept the premise that the differences will increase as a result of it?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e833	SV has proposed that we accept 5 000 quota refugees, in line with what the United Nations is asking for. It is more than the government has proposed, but a dramatic increase in relation to what the Progress Party itself has been in, is not. If we are to make it – and reduce the differences – we need to implement an integration policy that works. Then we have to make sure people learn Norwegian, we have to make sure people get qualified, and we have to make sure that families have enough to live off until they get there. An integration policy that works is not about giving up a single neighbour. It's about a lot of the same thing as eradicating differences in our society else. I think it's interesting that the Progress Party is so concerned with inequality just when it comes to a matter where they can talk about immigration. Otherwise, this government in field-by-field follows a policy that draws society towards greater differences – and the Progress Party is revealed as a party to them at the top of Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e844	A sustainable society requires that we make the best possible use of Community resources. SV has been very good at problemating Norwegian economic exposure to oil, and now everyone is talking about the need to uncouple emissions and economic growth. But very few talk about the need to disconnect the public sector and the welfare state from the oil revenues, which is currently around 263 billion. kr on the State budget. There is no industry that is as profitable as the oil industry, and even if we succeed in replacing all oil jobs with other valuable jobs, we have to be able to do more too little to maintain today's welfare level. However, SV is opposed to all reforms, such as pension reform, rail reform, new roads AS, municipal reform and police reform, and in general to expand most social benefits regardless of their impact. What I'm asking is how SV is going to close the gap between the expenses they're for and the income they're against?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e853	This is an important debate. Let me just say first that there's a lot of evidence that government reforms don't exactly lead to a much more efficient society. I think, for example, Most people who see the chaos that is now triggered in the Norwegian railway will agree with me that there is very good reason to believe that this is not particularly sensible management of resources in the long run, even though we have got many more directors who can contribute a little more tax in the treasury. But then to the seriousness of this issue, because it is absolutely right that we have to prepare for a future – and that is both with Nordby Lunde's policy and with ours – where oil revenues will be less. First of all, we have to ask ourselves the question: how do we develop industries that do not disappear but develop? Our answer to that is to get started working on a green new deal. Then we have to ask ourselves, how do we distribute so that well-being can exist? Because the right thing never mentions is that the projections also show that we're going to have a strong increase in private consumption. Rather, we can redistribute to public common consumption.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e862	Norway's great advantage in relation to our nature and our natural resources is a historic green deal, if you like, namely active use across the country. While many other countries have experienced that jobs have been moved to low-cost countries, in Norway we have compensated for this with active use of rich natural resources and the development of value chains. The conflict between protection and use may put an end to this over the long term protection of large areas. In Oppland, Dovrejell learns how bulldozers and guards have removed old roads and threatened steel history. In Valdre's experience, among others: Eyes Slides fights related to the extension of the Langsua National Park and other conflicts in the government's process of supplementary protection. How does SV consider local opinions and considerations to be heard in such protection processes, and how can this ensure future value creation and employment?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e871	It is quite right that our natural resources have been and are going to be the basis for what we are going to live on in Norway, and making a green new deal is based on a lot of the same thing as the green deal that Knutsdatter Strand describes that we have a long tradition in Norway. It's about using the earth and the sea and the power and the forest. We need to find the balance between being able to put this into practice and being able to take care of it, so that it is also there for future generations, and so that we fulfil the responsibility we have to take care of biodiversity. There is a lot of talk about the climate crisis here today – rightly so. There is less talk of the threat to species diversity being also an environmental disaster, which could become fateful. There must also be a country like Norway. It's probably still going, I think, to be some disagreement between the SV and the Center Party on the scope of protection. We have to live with that. We've done that before. But we'll figure that out, and then we'll see where it ends.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e880	At the Political Quarter last week, the representative Lysbakken said that SV would report Norway out of NATO and rather join a so-called Nordic defence cooperation. Since Lysbakken systematically avoided answering the question from the programme manager, I repeat here: If there were to be a conflict with neighbouring Russia, how will Norway defend itself?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e885	I answered that question on the radio, and I would like to repeat it today. The challenge with parts of the security policy debate today is that the premise for what is the threat to Norway is wrong. It's not going to be an invasion of Russia, it's not what we're going to prepare for, but there's a risk that there will be smaller crises, that there will be accidents, that there will be situations that can escalate. Then the question is, how do we deal with it? The starting point for Norwegian security policy must be to minimise the risk that Norway will end up in that kind of situation. We believe that a closer Nordic connection is involved, while the policy that the Left is unfortunately involved in today, bringing Norway closer and closer into a US under Donald Trump, makes Norway more and more dependent on the military and invite the Americans into our neighbourhoods, actually contributing to the opposite, to increased tension. It's a bad security policy, and it's disappointing that the Left is in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e890	SV wants children to be in school all the time, but they want adults to have shorter working days. The paradox is enormous. The school has many challenges, and we solve them by employing more teachers, several different professional groups, continuing the fight against bullying and leaving children to be children. Several school hours do not solve these challenges. Rather, the Christian People's Party will work for social cohesion by getting more parents to engage in children's schooling. The intentions of balancing differences are good, but outsourcing childhood is as paradoxical as that SV will have six-hour day for adults, but full-time school for children. Is it the case that SV believes that reducing parental responsibility for child education and learning fits into their party policy as long as it can be justified in the fight against equalising social differences?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e895	I have great respect for the representative, Becquerad. That's why I think it's a little bit sad that he's constructing strawmen. There are no parties in Norwegian politics that want the children to be at school all day. What we have proposed is to extend the school day by two school hours. Besides, it's going to work well with a six-hour day for adults, but it's not like the kids are going to spend more time at school, but we're going to reorganize the time we're already using, because the kids are at the SFO to a very high degree, an offer that's expensive and of varying quality. In addition, children spend a lot of time on homework. We want to take home lessons and a part of SFO time and put it into school day, so that there is time for more practical subjects, that there is time for free food, that there is time for more physical activity, that there is time to do homework at school – that is, a school that can include more children. So the Christian People's Party should actually stop constructing these strawmen and rather explain how they intend to create a school day that will fit these necessary things.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e901	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e906	Some of the best things about Norway are community based on cohesion and tolerance, with little differences, with people so safe on themselves, on their own history and identity that together we are able to meet the unknown and the uncertain, the lack, with respect and sincere willingness to stand up for each other and the world out there. These are the moves and values that make up the community of Norway, which we can never take for granted, and that we need to keep on and on and on. The left is Norway's only social liberal party. All policies and positions are based on an ideology in which tolerance, lack, freedom, community, international solidarity and future-optimism are guiding values. If freedom is to be real to everyone, we must also be free from nudity, poverty and inequality, the social dimension that explains why Left will always fight for early action, a strong public school and fight against child poverty and thus secure everyone, regardless of the background and social status of parents and residents, the same starting point, the same freedom – and once again ensure little differences. Social liberalism also lays the foundations of a human vision that implies that they show confidence, take responsibility for themselves and others, which in turn explains why Left will always have the aim of moving as much power as possible, tasks and resources as close to the citizens as possible. We want strong communities where people live and live, that everyone has the freedom to realize the good life for themselves and theirs, whether they live in the districts or in so-called central strata. The left will always be on the barricades of local democracy, spread of power, jobs and cultural services in both the countryside and the city. If there is one area where the freedom of future generations – the young, our grandchildren – is really threatened, it is in the climate and the environment. Man-made climate change is the biggest problem in the world facing us, and the mind of Greta Thunberg is in place. The science she refers to is correct. Extreme weather becomes more and more normal. Being closed down by reducing enough greenhouse gas emissions — and quickly enough — is crucial. Fortunately, we know that we have the power and the ability to reverse the evolution and change the way we do things. The left is fundamental future-optimistic. However, it requires that we make the right choices now, that we end up with what we have as a prioritizer, develop new solutions, reinforce and create the changes that need to be made, that we increase the investment in research and technology development, that we play along with the business community, that we use market forces consciously for the benefit of the climate. We know that. The left believes in man-made climate solutions. In spring, an alarming report came from the nature panel to the UN. The reduction in natural and species diversity, which occurs at a alarming pace, not only affects the individual ecosystem, but also reduces the impressive and decisive species to adapt and survive extremely different conditions throughout millions of years. If we change nature so much that species die out, we cut evolutionary lines, lines that are important raw material for further evolution and future freedom, whether it is food production, new and better medicine or something as fundamental as having a natural defect to be in and benefit from. Taking us with migration, it represents and climate and environment three areas that require more international cooperation in order for the world to be united in addressing the challenges. And at a time when major acts such as the United States and the United Kingdom – in the neighborhood – have political leaders who are the drivers of unhealthy, directly dangerous nationalism and closest to warnings against globalisation, it is more important than ever that a rich, well-organised country such as Norway takes responsibility and is a driver of more committed cooperation, not less. If we are to prevent large-scale involuntary and necessary migration, we need to be closed down by reducing greenhouse gas emissions quickly enough – ‘world wide’. At the same time, the fight against poverty and systematic assistance must continue and intensify. For Social Liberals Left, the fight for peace does not stop at our borders. I am therefore pleased that the Left is part of a government and working with record efforts on assistance and action to lift more out of poverty and nudity, and that we have a Prime Minister and a government that puts great weight and power in different international contexts and forums to help raise the world. Globally, we see that women and children are the hardest victims of poverty, and that women do not have the same opportunities and rights as men. Fewer women go to school, they tend less, and they own less land to feed on than men. They have fewer possibilities for own income, are often exposed to power in the world, in the workplace and in society otherwise. Women are also most likely to experience poor access to health services, especially in connection with pregnancy and childbirth. If women get education, work, decide on their own bodies and use voice saying, it will become less wasted, less poverty, less power and more justice. Only the ladies get the opportunity, they make a big difference, both for themselves and for the world. Gender equality is not only important for individual women, but also for men and society. I am happy and proud that this government, among others. bets so heavily internationally on the education of girls. I am also pleased that this year's TV action goes to an organisation that is doing a great job for women and gender equality in several parts of the world – CARE. Some comments on the loose proposals of the Environmental Party The Green Party and the Labour Party on the issue of Norwegian children who are resident in Syria, and in particular on the sick good in Al Hol: For the Left, the best child will always weigh the most heavily, and in this case it is obvious that it is to bring home well, if necessary together with the mother and the prosecution of her here. After all, the Left took the fight in its time and introduced the principle that children should not be punished for the actions of adults. However, the complexity and not least the security of those involved in this matter require that matters be handled by the government, not by the Storting. As the parliamentary leader of a government party, I can also inform you that the government is more than happy to attend a meeting of the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee, which is a closed meeting – to those who do not know it – and is briefing the Storting on matters, and that should be more than enough for the Storting in such a case, in my opinion. The left made a bad municipal choice. When we know what efforts, what things and what candidates we have locally, there is little doubt that we need to take a large part of the responsibility for the results. We haven't closed down making people safe enough on the left, and on what left stands for, and how important it is with a powerful, pure-bred social liberal party in Norwegian politics. In this way, I and Left really look forward to the work of the Great Council in the fall and winter, a work we shall use to raise the Freedom Tab high, a freedom free from poverty, nudity and inequality, a freedom that gives everyone the opportunity to live the good life, both on Grünerløkka here in Oslo, on Byrse's home in Ulvik, on Stend in Bergen, in Kiberg in Vardø, a freedom that does not stop at the national border, a freedom struggle that helps to be shut down quickly enough to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, so that future generations have the same opportunities to enjoy – and benefit – the nature that we enjoy doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e934	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e939	The representative Breivik knows that I sincerely believe that the Left has a proud social liberal tradition in Norwegian history. He already knows that. This has meant a lot to the development of Norway. I have listened carefully to the posts of the representative, and I must first ask: How is it possible for the Left to be in coalition with the right librarians after that post? I have to say that I don't fully understand, but Terje Breivik might have the chance to explain a little bit more. It is a matter of concrete policy, and there are three things I want to make specific about the issues surrounding the participation of the Left in the government. Is the Left, with the background that Breivik has now said, really behind the proposal to cut redundancies for Norwegian youth? Are they really behind that? I don't understand. The second is curtailment in disability benefit and no to retirement from the first penny. How does this fit the contents of Breivik's articles?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e946	I will begin by agreeing that the first time I listened to the proposal for a cut in the redundancy allowance for young people, I reacted in the spinal cord in the same way as the representative Kolberg has clearly done. Then I got more involved in it and got an explanation of the intention behind it and what is actually being done. I hope that also the representative Kolberg sees the sense of it. After all, this is all about using the resources, the resources that we have to consult, so that young people who depend on using the amazing institute of work clearance actually get into firm, sustainable work, and not get a lasting destiny in the welfare system.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e951	If I hear quite correctly now, I hear, in fact, that the Left's parliamentary leader is beginning to use the rhetoric of the right. We have to push people first – to get them to go further. It's also going to be interesting to hear what the Christian People's Party had to think about this. That's just like the way you always have to solve these challenges: we're pushing the weakest ones to go further, and then the inequality just increases. This is the philosophy of right-wing liberalism, and I really hope that the Left is able to settle with it. I must say I am amazed, I am amazed, and I am amazed.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e956	I'm making a new attempt to get the representative Kolberg to understand the intent behind it. There's no pressure here. It is a matter of trying to use the resources that the community, that is, the Nav and the LFS, have to consult, just to ensure that young people avoid a destiny by becoming well-being recipients of life, but get into what most people both want and have as their goal in life: solid, sustainable work. The changes made by the Youth Labour Treatment Institute mean that there is money to be spent on other measures to ensure job redundancy – one should try to do so to see if one can get involved in sustainable work, otherwise there are other measures going on – and that we are actually closed to helping those who depend on that Institute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e961	I notice that I am not getting an answer to this, and I hear that the representative is looking at his argument in principle. We just have to take note of that. He has to do it in the power situation he's in. It must be annoying, as I think it is. Then it's district policy. The other side of this is, of course, the violent centralisation that this government is conducting – the violent centralisation. So now it's the tax on power and the courts that's going on. Will the Left stand behind such centralization through its work in the government, or can we lean on the Left here to oppose it, so that we do not get this decided in the Storting during this session – because it would be an accident?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e968	This is once again a question based on reasonable misconceptions, which the Left does not share, about a government that operates with enormous centralization – on the contrary. I believe that the representative, Kolberg, has respect for the fact that to counteract the strong forces, the gravitational forces, which drag people and resources to the big cities, is not a matter of skill. When the Left has been a driver and has supported a local reform, a regional reform, it is precisely to have an argument against the perhaps strongest argument against decentralizing power, tasks, resources and jobs to the municipalities from the state, that the municipalities have been too small – it has been too small a professional environment – that it has been possible. If I had our representative Mr Kolberg, I would rather be glad that someone is taking the fight that the representative Mr Kolberg himself must know is not the simplest in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e977	The Government Party, supported by SV, the Environmental Party of Dei Green and Red, adopted on 13 June a ban on the feeding of fur animals. This summer, the majority government has been listening to a proposal for a compensation scheme for the families who are under the ban. This will mean economic ruin for these families. Generational values are lost. Many will be left with millions of debts. It's these families that pay the price of politics to the Left. I want to give the representative, Terje Breivik, the opportunity to explain to me, the Storting and these fur farmers why can't give them a proper compensation – a full financial compensation for the loss that the food ban has caused them.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e984	I'm going to do the simplest first: I really hope that we're going to do 'at the end of the day', because that's what they're going to do. I have a great deal of respect for the individual fur farmer, who now – despite all – has to lay down an industry that has until now our legal status. The background for the ban on fur is the welfare of the animals. For the sake of animal welfare, this has been necessary. The representative Pollestad knows that one of the last things we did here in the house before we took a summer vacation and went into the election campaign was to adopt a compensation scheme that is clear. To the extent that this does not happen every single good enough, we have also given the opening so that the members can go in and evaluate the individual matters, so that no one will be left with a loss they cannot live with.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e994	Still no one knows what the government budget for 2020 will look like, but the NRK and several others report that the government’s proposal will include an increase in the CO2 tax and a corresponding reduction in the user charge, so that in sum it will not be more expensive to drive a fossil car and thus not switch to greener transport. This summer we saw two movements mobilizing large, namely the climate strike, with young people who want to save the world, and the toll riot, with adults who want to pollute for free. You can understand both camps, but in some central questions, they disagree. Then you can't give to both – then you have to choose the page. Is the Left in conjunction with climate change strikers' environmental requirements or with their partners' policy on continued high transport emissions?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1003	First, thank you for a very good and important question. The left is, of course, in common with the climate strikers. It also does the cooperation that Left is part of. I can confirm that something is going to happen with the CO2 tax on the state budget coming on Monday. A green tax shift is perhaps the heaviest and most important instrument we have to employ one of the most important travel hubs, i.e. market forces, and to do what we want more of climate-friendly solutions – whether in the private sector or in the corporate governance of industry – cheaper. Similarly, we have to set the price of what we want less of, that is, greenhouse gas emissions. The breakthrough, that we have now received a mandatory phasing-out plan for CO2 taxes, is extremely important in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1010	I have a question about the four-year-old, sick, Norwegian boy in Al Hol – a boy we all wanted us not to have to know about, because he was already protected by international humanitarian law and the rights of children. Now we know about him. The reasons why he is not helped have varied greatly from the government parties. This worries me a lot. The last reason why tomorrow you can't vote to help him is the child's safety risk. It seems very strange, all the time when the mother has already given interviews publicly in the Norwegian press with clear political opinions. So there's already a big safety risk around this family. Does the representative Breivik agree that the main reason why this child is not now being taken to Norway with his family is political disagreement among the government parties as to whether children of Norwegian foreign fighters should be able to return to Norway with their families?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1017	No, I'm deeply disunited with that. The reason for this is what I told you from the pulpit. First of all, this is a kind of thing that the Storting will not involve itself in, essentially, but the most important thing for the Left in this context is that of course we have engaged heavily in this matter through our people in the government. I know my government people are working hard on this case. Of course, I share the concerns of the Greens for good. The government has already taken action, including: provision of health care, which has been rejected by the mother. I think I would like to ask the Green Party and the representative of Bastholm to listen to what I have said in my main speech from the spokesperson of the Stortinge, what concerns the security situation and complexity.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1026	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1031	Our Christian and humanistic heritage and tradition have given us values such as human dignity, closeness of mind and trustworthiness. The basis for policy is the view of the individual's unique value, despite different starting points, assumptions and characteristics. Man has an inherent and inviolable self-value, and all humans have the same human dignity. This is the core of the Christian People's Party's policy, and I am pleased that this is also the basis of this government's policy. At the centre of politics is the families, small communities, the voluntary community and the belief that society is built from below. Child poverty in today’s Norway is largely about children experiencing exclusion from social cohesion because of the family’s financial situation. All children should therefore be given the opportunity to experience belonging to important social arenas, regardless of the financial situation of their parents. The Christian cultural heritage carries important values. The inviolability of human dignity, the administrative responsibility and responsibility for our fellow human beings are examples of these kinds of values. At the same time, Christian democracy is something more. It is an idea that the most crucial thing in society is not the state or politics, but the community maintained by families, religious communities, volunteering and institutions. That is why it is not all that the State should take responsibility for alone. Values such as honesty and personal responsibility contribute to the creation of a good society for all, where the small communities are at the centre. The Christian People's Party's policy of innovation and entrepreneurship has long historical roots. Hans Nielsen Hauge traveled around the country and started business at the end of the 1700s. He created a people's movement of work, knowledge and innovation, and the tracks we see today. This is also an important part of the cultural heritage, an heritage that has given us durable values and which is the foundation of modern food and agricultural policy. I welcome the strength of this government's industrial and agricultural policy – better framework conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises and for entrepreneurial activities and an offensive policy for active agriculture across the country. Security for the generations that come after us is about good framework conditions for industrial development, for agriculture throughout the country and for fisheries. It is about access to new green jobs, both private and public. It is about the development of new technologies, more broadband for the whole country, roads and public transport. It is about a good community economy, security of good health services and schools where people live, and a strong and modern defence. The Christian People's Party will fight for freedom of belief and life for all. A society in which religion and views of life are limited becomes less inclusive and diverse. Therefore, it is important to ensure a holistic and actively supportive belief and life-view policy that recognises the faith and outlook of people in a life-viewed society. Religion and faith have a great social force. It creates community, and religious communities are important cultural and value bearers. They give identity and belonging and represent an arena to discuss issues of belief, doubt and ethics. The community depends on values and traditions that bind us together. Religious and life-seeking communities are maintainers of that type of common values. A free society of human rights, democracy and legal certainty does not arise and is not maintained by itself. In our part of the world, the Christian and humanistic heritage and tradition have made a decisive contribution to shaping and maintaining such a society. We have to defend these values. In meeting other religions and cultures, we shall not tone down this foundation in fear of stumbling anyone. It's going to be completely wrong. We're going to be proud of our tradition, be tolerant while we're proud of the values that have built society. There are values that have helped give us a good society to live in. After decades when the number of people starving in the world has fallen, this curve has now turned upside down. In the last four years, more and more people have been in a situation of hunger and uncertainty linked to the ability to obtain enough food. 820 million people in the world have too little to eat. One quarter of the population in sub-Saharan Africa is undernourished, and one in three children in the poorest countries are growth-impaired because they don't have enough and nutritious food. This is an unacceptable situation. It's a tragedy for individuals and for society as a whole. Without food there will be no development, without nourishment there will be no learning in school, and lack of nutrition is, of course, completely destructive to people's health. A major driver of this development is climate change. During the UN General Assembly last week, a report was launched showing that without climate change adaptation, climate change will lead to 30 pst. the decline in global yields towards 2050. At the same time, the need for food will increase by 50 pst. That is why I am pleased that the government and Development Minister Ulstein have raised the fight against just hunger and climate adaptation as top priority in the development policy of the government. In the Christian People's Party, the administrative responsibility is one of the ideological carriers. The climate threat requires full activation of the management tank – that we do not own the land but manage it. This summer, climate change has been higher on the political agenda than ever, and it appears to be one of the greatest challenges we face in our lifetime. Then, in the political debate, we have to be careful to become so self-critical that we sub-communicate what is actually going on. Never before has there been a more offensive climate policy in Norway than now. Erna Solberg is leading the most climate offensive government ever in this country. It was just supposed to be missing. Some parties in this room and some organisations and activists are sub-communicating what is actually going on. The climate issue is too important for the political game to dominate. Here, hard work, joint effort, and wise action are required. Our wealth in this country is far on the road based on what has created this situation, and it would only be lacking if we did not know an extra responsibility to go ahead. According to a recent report from Norad, over 40 million people are trapped in slavery in the world today. These include women and girls over 70 pst. Every fourth slave is a child. The Norad report just presented shows that poverty, conflict, corruption, climate change and migration contribute to an increase in the level of slavery. The report describes modern slavery as one of the most profitable crimes of our time. Profit is high; the risk of being caught and punished is low. The fight against impunity is therefore an important part of the fight against slavery. It is also essential to target profitability, such as the Norwegian authorities. by means of ethical guidelines for the oil fund. But this isn't enough. The fight against slavery today must be waged in many areas. This applies not only to finance but also to business – and also to consumers. I am pleased that the government is actively working to strengthen the fight against modern slavery. Engaging in the fight against trafficking in human beings is an important part of the struggle for human dignity. The Christian People's Party has worked for a long time to bring home the IS children with Norwegian citizenship, along with their mothers. Among these children is a seriously ill four-year-old who needs a health service that cannot be fully provided where he is located. The government has also offered health care to the sick boy, without the offer being received by the mother. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to find a solution for both this four-year-old and the other Norwegian children living under completely inhumane conditions. These are Norwegian children who we must give a completely different future than what they are exposed to in the camp they are in. It is therefore imperative for the Christian People's Party to use our position in government to get a solution now. We are not going to vote in favour of the proposals by the Greens and the Working Party today – not because we are not in favour of the content of the proposals. This is about many things, including: also a safety aspect. The Christian People's Party will work intensively in the government position on this matter, and that's where this is to be channelled.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1056	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1061	The term ‘the whole country’ was repeatedly used by the representative Gruvan in his posts. The Court of Justice Commission proposes major changes to the current jurisdictional structure. The Commission proposes that today's 60 District Courts be reduced to 22. So the Commission is proposing to cut two out of three District Courts around the country, and it's probably no secret that it's going to be around the big cities in the last third of the time. This is a recipe for reinvigorating centralization, which will weaken one of the pillars of our state of justice. All shall and must have access to a right in their neighbourhood, and a well-functioning rule of law is a prerequisite for a well-functioning society. The Christian People's Party was when they opposed the establishment of a court commission. Will the Christian People's Party here and now against the Storting today promise that half of the country's District Courts will not be closed for good, and will vote against such a fury of the rule of law when the matter comes to Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1070	Let me first stress that the Court of Justice's setting is not the government's setting. It is a sample that has submitted a proposal which is now to be sent to the hearing. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we see the important function of legal certainty in the country of the District Courts proposed today in the Commission's proposal. We also believe that they are financially sound. We believe that they can also recruit well and work well. Not least, such a proposal, which I would call dramatic, will also help to impose large additional costs on the population at increased travel distances, which perhaps just go beyond the very most scarce of resources. So my attitude and the Christian People's Party's attitude is clear: we don't want to go for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1079	After all, the government has cut the economy of the courts through the ABE reform and put the courts in a situation that is already under pressure, including today. by cutting the term of office. Soren writers who retire from retirement are not replaced. We already see that the management of the courts is subject to major courts. Already today, some of the things that this sample points out are happening. Only the large courts are allowed to participate in what is called ‘Digital Courts’, and when the small courts come with their opinions, they also do not have a place in, for example: this sample. Then I have a question: is the representative of Gruvan surprised at the conclusion of this investigation?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1086	I have to say that based on the signals that one had received in advance, we perceived that some of the conclusion could easily go in the direction that we have seen. This way, the conclusion might not have been directly surprising. At the same time, I would like to stress again that this is not the government's proposal. This is a proposal from a selection. The representative Constanteraune has pointed to clear weaknesses in this, and I have also expressed a view that requires thorough treatment and not necessarily in accordance with what the sample has proposed here.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1094	The representative spoke so warmly and actively about the Christian People's Party's thoughts about the situation of the Norwegian children in Syria. Why, then, does the representative not want to support the Workers' Party's proposal for an investigation into the extended Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence on the very situation of children and Norwegian citizens?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1099	The Christian People's Party is strongly committed to the four-year-old who has been mentioned in the media, to get this child home, with mother and sister. We are committed to bringing all Norwegian children home, together with their mothers, so that the children can have a situation where they can be taken care of and avoid radicalisation, and that mothers can be held liable for what they have been involved in. We believe that this is a matter which is not suitable for decision in the United Kingdom, as proposed by the Greens. With regard to the Workers' Party's proposal for a statement, we would like to make a statement to the Stortinget, but then it has to be done in a closed forum, such as this. the enlarged Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, for here are the security and strategic aspects that we should keep out of the public domain. So the Christian People's Party will support such a proposal and open up so that the Storting can get a statement on those premises.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1106	Thank you for that. Back to the situation surrounding the police reform here in Norway: the implementation of this police reform has encountered massive resistance. Professionals across the country shout warnings, and experienced police officers now warn that they want to quit the job. Ordinary people experience that they do not get through the emergency centres, reviews are not accepted, and matters with a known perpetrator are settled. A major reason for this is the reluctance of the right-wing government to listen to professionals, while the reform over the years is underfunded. The agreement reached in Stortinget is undoubtedly broken by this government. The right hand side and the propulsion part say that about 90 pst. the reform is a success. It has to be understood that there's only a little bit left before you're in the goal. But from the Christian People's Party it has been piercingly silent around this for a while now. Does the parliamentary leader of the Christian People's Party share the views of the Right and the Progressive Party on the implementation of the police reform?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1115	Let me just start by reminding you that the Labour Party also agreed on the need for reform, and has supported the police reform here in Stortinget. It was that we saw that the preparedness had to be strengthened, the police had to be organised in other ways, as well as the police action had to be given additional funds, as this government has shown by strengthening the police with approximately 2,800 annual works since 2013. So the crime scene that is today is complicated. It means new tasks, new specialized tasks that people in the police have to be trained for. At the same time, I would also like to say that we are not in the target of this reform. There are clearly obvious weaknesses, which have been pointed out in various studies. We want to continue working on it, also with regard to a notice to Stortinget, so that we have the opportunity to discuss this. So the race isn't over, but it had to be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1124	The Christian People's Party has the slogan «Together for a Warmer Society», and for a long time the Christian People's Party and SV have shared the slogan and joined forces in the struggle for a warmer society and against the unsocial politics of government. Today we can read about Ingrid Rundberget, who says that if she had lost 60 000 kroner, she should have considered moving home to her parents or living on noodles. I wonder if the representative thinks that sick people are getting better off getting poorer when they get redundancy money, and I want to know if the Christian People's Party really supports this cut, or if this is something the party has been forced to do because of the cooperation with the right side.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1133	I am very pleased that SV has adopted the slogan of the Christian People's Party «Together for a warmer society» – we think that is very good. So welcome after! With regard to the proposal that was presented today, we have to look a little behind the proposal: what is this about? These include: have come forward on the basis of a proposal from an employment committee which called for changes to the AAP scheme, as this has led to the situation of many. 70 pst. of these young disabled people have mental challenges. It requires closer follow-up and more work from Nav in order to see which of these we can get into work. Therefore, it is important that the money now spent is used to get young people more ready to work. Then there is someone who will never get into work – we have to take the consequences of it – but we need to strengthen Nav competence and strengthen the inclusion skills in business, so that we can prepare them in a better way than what we have done today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1142	They say that the truth is the first victim of war, and there are just now many different versions of what the mother of this four-year-old boy in Al Hol has been offered and not. It is difficult for the representative Gruvan and I to clarify here, but this may well be that I am going to follow up directly with the Foreign Minister, because it is quite important in principle and humanitarian law and also for the legal security of this family. What I'm responding to in the last two posts, both from the representative Breivik and from the representative of Gruvan, is that you've changed a lot the story about why these children aren't being helped. I want it to be clear and honest that the reason why the children and their parents have not been brought home before the summer, mostly mothers, who are now being investigated for membership of the IS, is a political disagreement between the parties in the government as to whether these women should be allowed to return to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1149	The government has shown that it has a great commitment to these Norwegian children – and I think it is nice that we call them Norwegian children and not IS children. One has already brought home five orphans, which was done on the summer. When we've been negative to the treatment in Stortinget, it's about the Stortinget first of all not being able to handle the case. Secondly, for security and strategic reasons, we believe that this will be very unfortunate. In the situation in the annex of the Al Hol camp, where sharia regulations are almost in place, this collection, through the publication of the Norwegian Storing, will easily put this woman and her child in a dangerous and difficult safety situation. That's why we want this to be part of the government's treatment, and we in the Christian People's Party are working hard to get a quick solution, because it's urgent.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1156	The cord shift has therefore been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1161	We've put behind us a local choice. Two values mean I was central to a lot of voters this year. The first is the fight for living, strong communities with safe neighbourhoods to grow up in, work in and grow old in wherever in the country you live. The second battle is global and is about the climate and nature crisis. That's the one I'm going to talk about first, for look around you: all over the world the green movement is growing. For the new President of the European Union, the fight against climate change is a major issue. In the United States, more and more parts of Congress require a new radical climate policy, and many states are now taking climate management. In Norway, we made our best choices in the Greens this year, and so did this week in Austria. Increasingly and increasingly, visionary politicians are now ready to mobilise and win choices on honest and committed environmental policies. It's not that strange, because the climate and nature crisis has never been more serious, and it's never been closer to us. The main force in the global environmental movement is children and young people. Last Friday, 7 million people took part in a climate strike – on the same day, for the same reason, most from the same generation. And they have the same message to the leaders of the world: Be courageous, speed up! Because with today's policies, we count their generation for freedom, opportunity and well-being. Some people think the young people's commitment is a little daunting; some think that Greta Thunberg might be a little bit too much. Our own prime minister commented, for example, that Thunberg could have bothered to mark his commitment beyond school time. I'd like to say to the Prime Minister that we've probably just seen the beginning. Young people are right when they accuse the world's leaders of failure, they have good reasons to be afraid of the future, because the climate and nature crisis brings floods, droughts, hurricanes, higher sea levels, social instability, food crisis and a poorer planet. And crises are also expensive. Greta Thunberg doesn't just have commitment, she's right. We politicians can't keep telling adventures that we have control, because we don't. If we want to give young people hope, we have to do it by filrating our own industriousness: Give young people hope by showing that they put their freedom, security and well-being first. Drop expensive, wide motorways and tax havens that increase emissions. Defence polluter-payer principle. Give the young hope by leaving the comfort zone. Take political leadership and commitment to the policies that are needed, the one that cuts emissions and saves nature and food, not the policies that we would prefer to have time and money for. Some politicians, from the Right to the Red, claim that there is no democratic basis for implementing the necessary policies. Instead of making a commitment to new measures, they warn against riots and yellow vests if you now hurry too much. But the problem today is not that we're rushing, the problem is that it's going too slow. Every day we politicians speak in public, we are also involved in shaping popular opinion. We can choose to focus on the fact that this can be very bad, scary and difficult, or we can choose to use the trust we've been given to talk about what needs to be done, argue for it, and thus build support for what takes care of our children's future. The love of the children is one of the strongest driving forces in man. I am absolutely sure that it is stronger in most people than short-term egoism and even old habits. Clearly, people are willing to change, to pay more for petrol and for flights, if they see that it is necessary to save the future for their own children, and especially if you can also show them that there is a commitment to the green alternatives. Good environmental policies often also provide better lives here and now, such as cleaner air and clean fjords, better health and better accessibility. Both energy saving and electric cars pay off in the long term for both individuals and businesses, but we need to help people over the knee. The yellow vests in France came from persistently high social inequality and great distance between people and the political elite. It's an example of what happens if a country splits, and allows inequalities to increase and increase. The fight against social inequality is important in itself, but the yellow vests are not an argument against flat rates or other climate policies in today's Norway. I think politicians most underestimate what kind of environmental mandate the voters have given them. In elections, politicians have made promises, but replied to break them. As early as 1990, the Stortinget said that emissions were going down. Today they are higher than in 1990. The problem is not that voters don't care about the future, the problem is that politicians have come up with something completely different. In addition to the fight against the climate and natural crisis, I said that the elections were about the fight for living healthy, strong communities. In the same way that many in the community voted against centralisation and weakened services in their community, citizens of Oslo, Bergen, Trondheim, Kristiansand, Tromsø, and Molde also voted for better, rustier and cleaner communities where they live. The builders and the townspeople have not voted against each other in this election, they have voted on the same basic values. In districts, government centralisation policy is an important threat to local communities. In cities, the government’s transport policy — and we can add housing policy — threatens the growing-up environment, inclusion and health, among others. because an insistence on continuing an animal and car-based urban development that provides queue, poor air and poor performance. The Solberg government coercives municipalities and shuts down police districts, maternity wards and educational facilities to save money. The money they hope to save will be spent on gigantic highways, such as the Free E39 in the West, the expansion of E6 around Trondheim and E18 in the Oslo region. For a fraction of that price, we can raise maintenance, safety and climate adaptation on the roads while saving nature and food soil. In the last month, Erna Solberg and her government have suddenly created uncertainty even about the zero growth target for car traffic into the cities. The response of the city electors was clear: the Right Party and the Advance Party were thrown down the hall by the voters in all Norway's largest cities, while the Green Party is now in the steering position or the negotiator in the same cities. All reasonable, long-term arguments speak for holding on to the zero growth target and preferably sharpening it. Predictability here is important for all other urban developments in major cities. That is why in the Greens this year we are going to propose that the Stortinget legislate this goal. The big defining project in our century is to phase out the production and use of fossil energy and ensure the transition to a fair and clean green economy within the planet's limit of tolerance. Never before have there been stronger arguments for starting the phase-out of Norwegian petroleum activities and stopping the opening of new fields on Norwegian soil – and more and more people are agreeing on it. Clearly, we can do that while taking care of people, the community and the competence of the Norwegian industry, and of course we can create new jobs, strengthen a varied business life and reduce social inequality while cutting emissions. It's about how we do it. That probably means that we have to increase the taxes on the largest income and wealth and lower the taxes for those who have the least. We need to protect the Norwegian model of working life and strengthen social systems while implementing a large-scale green transition with an active industrial policy, and using public ownership and public procurement smart and innovative. We in the Greens will spend the next few months talking as much as possible to both business and trade to develop ideas and collaboration that will achieve this in the most predictable and inspiring way possible. I want to end with another matter: in the Al Hol camp in Syria, a Norwegian boy of four years is at risk of dying if he does not receive health care now. As the room knows, I have therefore made a proposal that the government will take the four-year-old to Norway as soon as possible. For me, this case is about defending our own legal principles, even when it requires something from us. The boy is almost five years old and now weighs less than my daughter in one year and nine months. International humanitarian law obliges us to help them. Humanitarian law confirms international rules in war, such as that in conflict sick people are entitled to health care and that families are to be kept together as closely as possible. The rights of children and the principle of the child's best in our own constitution reinforce this commitment. Children are entitled to special protection, and Norwegian children are the responsibility of Norway in any case. I simply ask Stortinget to uphold our own legal principles – which we otherwise use to defend – also in this matter. The disgust we feel for the IS terrorist organisation and the choices the boy's mother may have made should not make us worse defenders of the principles of the rule of law or children's rights; it should make us even more steadfast. That's why I'm dealing with my proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1211	The representative of Une Bastholm then drew up the proposal to which she referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1219	The representative of Bastholm talks well about climate, and under the leadership of the Labour Party, we have shown together in Oslo how policies can contribute to greener societies. But the tone of the climate debate must be proper if we're going to come some way. That means we have to knock down those who are hoarding climate activists and politicians, but it also has to go the other way. So, the MDG member who compared oil workers to Nazis and slave drivers was too far above the line. The oil workers, who have contributed to building the country, creating values and building well-being, do a valuable job for us offshore every day, and they breathe far better than this. I would therefore like to give Une Bastholm the opportunity, from Stortinget's spokesman, to distance himself from this type of rhetoric, and I hope that the representative will do just that and not just come up with a sunny excuse where she says she wouldn't have used those exact words.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1226	Just the last thing I don't want to do, and I don't have any problems with -- it's very natural for me -- taking away from the very single opinion, which was a Twitter message from a member and a populace in the Green Party. He removed that Twitter message very quickly, two weeks ago. He regrets and has been clear about it, and he sees that it was completely wrong. So I experience the case that ended. I would also like to say that I believe that all people must be able to make mistakes, and I believe that all politicians, in all parties, have a responsibility for a debate where we focus on matters, and where we have an honest debate and take care of all parties in a discussion, but also dare to be clear enough to oblige.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1233	All parties have examples of individual members who have taken too much Møller's tran and spoke a little stupidly. But this aggressive hold against people in oil is not the first time we see from the Greens' Environment Party, and there are many who feel both black and stigmatized. Therefore, there is reason to wonder whether this candidate from this MDG member is just the top of the iceberg. Is it so that she reflects it into some environment in the party's mind? It's just looking at ABC News today to find an example of it. Can Bastholm confirm that this is the case, and can at the same time confirm that the lot it represents understands the significance of the Norwegian oil and gas industry in the green shift – that Equinor, for example. could never have invested in sea wind, as they do now, without the revenues from oil and gas?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1240	I really feel that there were two questions here. One is about the debate, what kind of culture we should have in the political debate in Norway, and whether I think it is a problem in the Greens. I do not mean that, and I have been very clear on the outside that there is no cell in my body that is irritated by an oil worker, condemns an oil worker or believes that oil workers should not be proud of the competence they contribute to, and the job they go to every day. This is a political discussion; it is not about political morality. The second question raised by the representative concerns policy and whether the oil-related industry can be useful in the future. Very much of that industry will obviously be useful, very much of the 170 000 jobs are adjacent industries that deliver to the oil today, and we politicians in a transition must make sure that those jobs are requested by something else if they are not to come from the oil. That's what we put in a controlled, planned and responsible phase-out of the oil. It's not to turn back the oil taps overnight, as someone claims, but simply to start planning on how that transition to a clean economy will happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1247	The Greens have repeatedly expressed support for Greta Thunberg and her call for world leaders. At the latest today, the representative said in his statement that Greta is right and that things are going too slow. At the same time, the representative dismisses almost the entire debate on how to achieve this in such a way that people do not sit on their backs, and is unable to see any problematic aspects of the fact that it will require major changes to succeed in limiting greenhouse gas emissions. Science — as Thunberg also points out — tells us that Norway, as a rich country, must cut 80pst. by 2030. But the Green Party goes into its party program for a cut of only 60 pst. Why don't they agree with Greta Thunberg? Why don't they want to cut 80 pst. if this is so simple?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1252	First: Welcome back to the Stortinget to the representative Bru. I am pleased to continue working together in the Energy and Environment Committee. I think we're going to see a pretty big change in Norwegian society. I think that, for example, many of our habits are going to have to change. What I'm addressing is a concern that we have a very tendency to focus a lot on what's going to be challenges. I believe that the climate debate is very marked by the fact that instead of wanting to talk about measures that are perceived as obligating to talk about – especially from the government parties – we want a debate that draws up a picture of, for example, the situation. 80 pst., something that no parties in Norway suggest, and you spend a lot of time explaining how difficult it could have been. If you look at what's going on to cut 60 pst. That is what we in our alternative state budget are able to demonstrate with the measures that are currently legal, that we have available, and that the state is really just going to have to start using to make a transition, which can also contribute a lot to the Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1259	But then I think it's a little strange. If you think that Thunberg is right and that science tells us 80 pst, but the Environmental Party of Greens still believes that 60 pst. That's right, it has to be because they also see that it's not that simple. And this is not a debate on the debate, it is a debate on how we are actually going to get to this huge transformation in Norway, how we are going to ensure sustainable growth while cutting greenhouse gas emissions. But it's also another thing that I react to and think is a little strange in the reasoning of the Green Party on the Environment, and it's that they want to wind up the oil and gas industry in 15 years. But it's only 11 years until we reach 2030! Even with a 60 pst cut. It will require enormous changes. Why do they say e.g. not that we're going to wind up the oil industry in 11 years instead of 15?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1266	First of all, I would recommend members of parties that are currently struggling to have sufficient means at all to cut the emissions that Norway has committed itself to internationally, to use the most energy to influence the party internally to ensure that we get to a conversion that can at least take us more on the right road than we are today. Because it's a fact that although we have a list of climate action from the government now, we also have a list that increases emissions. That's the biggest problem, that's where the big disagreement stands. There are two major emissions sectors in Norway. It's transport, and it's oil and gas. We can choose to ignore the oil and gas sectors completely, but we still have to ensure that the transport sector is converted as quickly as possible. Then it's very strange that you've given more tax relief to fossil cars since Erna Solberg joined the government than you've given to zero-emission cars. And it's very strange that you choose to make airline tickets cheaper on a lot of routes, for example. all routes within Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1271	The Green Party is known to say no to any necessary and sensible development of road capacity. A report from the SSB in 2016 states that traffic conditions are crucial for the number of vehicles emitted per km driven. Emissions from cars and trucks are more than doubled when the queue is compared with when the traffic is flowing. Too low capacity on parts of the road network around and beyond our cities unfortunately contributes to a lot of queue and increased emissions. Does the representative Bastholm acknowledge that a petrol or diesel car running with a good flow and without a stop is significantly lower emissions, and is this seen to be better for both the climate and the environment than if the same car is collapsing in line with continuous start and stop?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1276	I don't need either to acknowledge or not to acknowledge facts that exist about that, but this is what is classically called a substitute argument. You do not build wider roads to make the cars drop out less. If you want cars to release less, you first of all have to make sure that the car fleet is converted to zero-emission cars so that it can be tested. Then you have to do something about tax policy. This is a market that is very price-elastic – we know that. It responds very quickly to the measures taken by the government, for example. to make it cheaper to buy new fossil cars. It's a huge problem, because it locks in the emissions for very many years to come – and long after we possibly get a stop to the new car sales of fossil cars in 2025. And to the roads: we actually spend more money in our alternative state budget on the maintenance of roads, racial protection and climate adaptations of roads than the government does. This is about how to invest in the road network. It is clear that very many people depend on using a car in their everyday lives. They need the roads to be safe, not the widest possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1285	In his speech, the representative Bastholm focused on the importance of oil policy in reducing greenhouse gas emissions in Norway. And until now, the Green Party has had as its main requirement to support a government that more exploration and extraction of oil and gas are not opened on the base, which means a halt in the opening of new oil and gas fields and a phase-out of petroleum activity over 15 years. After the local elections, Une Bastholm has opened negotiations on this oil ultimatum, and her alternate, Per Espen Stoknes, believes that the party should move away from its current oil position. I therefore believe that there is a need to clarify what is the position of the Greens. Will the Green Party stop all oil exploration now and phase out all petroleum activities in 15 years? Can Bastholm guarantee that the Green Party will not sit in or support a government that opens new oil and gas fields and does not set an end date for Norwegian petroleum activities?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1293	There should be no doubt that the Greens want to phase out the oil industry while building a greener industry and a green business that can replace the jobs and revenues it provides to the state. I have given an interview where I tried to explain that we have not yet started the process of what kind of requirement we should have, whether we should have a claim, and how absolute those requirements should be to sit in a government in 2021. But I can confirm that for the Green Party, it is important to be able to get in position around the municipalities in Norway – and also in government – because we feel it is urgent to bring in more politicians who put the climate and environment at the top. For us it will be very difficult to sit in a government that opens new fields.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1306	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1311	It blows the north wind from all sides of Solberg's government, as Ludvig in Flåklypa might have said. In local elections came the growth of red and green parties, which fight against differences, for the environment and for a policy for people throughout the country. We in Red made a great choice, among others. The Sandness Lake and the Dønna, in the middle of the epicenter of the storm created by the district uprising and the bulwark guerrilla, while the government parties are in a free fall, because they do not take in people's despair of being deprived of the opportunity to live safe lives in the districts, or the outburst of people over the fact that they are getting less and less back from the great values of the sea, from the footfalls, from the earth and our nature. We have no right-wing wave in Norway, but we have a wave of protests against increasing differences and against political paralysis. From Stortinget Red will do everything we can to counter the government's differential policy, and new red majority in more and more municipalities will give resistance from below the country around. Unfortunately, it seems easier to drag the government backwards into the bird box than to get them to change the course, but the struggle for a political shift is well under way. So there's two things that make me genuinely concerned. The first is the danger of a climate crisis. We have a poor time in the fight against dangerous climate change. In eleven years we'll at least halve the emissions. It's not too late, we can succeed, but then we have to pursue a socially fair climate policy. There are several reasons for this. Firstly, we cannot conduct a climate policy in which whips and carrots are unevenly distributed. It's unfair. We have to make sure that the strongest backs take the heaviest bristles. We have to make sure that people in the districts, those who work in the industry and those with low incomes do not pay an unreasonable amount of the bill. It will not be fair, because it is not where the main responsibility for climate problems lies. It's also about avoiding unnecessary fragmentation. In the global climate battle, demands for justice are a matter of course for most people. No one can expect the poor countries to cut much unless the rich countries go ahead and contribute the most. Similarly, it's also here at home. I think people around the country are willing to give a lot of money to the climate if they feel that the burdens of the transition are just, and that at the top they can't pay off and just keep going like before. The hardest hit when fossil car use is becoming more expensive must experience that alternatives are becoming cheaper and better. Those who work in the oil industry must feel that we are at least as busy getting them a new job they can go to, as we are in phasing out what they already have. This is not the first time Norway has had tough debates on road choices that create divisions and disagreements. Very few progress have been made on its own, whether it be for women's rights or for workers' struggles. The difference this time, even if we get hope from the climate strikers, is that we don't have time to wait for a new generation to take over. In that case, we will not reach the target in time, so action is needed against the climate crisis now. The other thing that worries me is the growing class divisions. Last week, the list of capital's 400 richest, showing that more and more power and wealth are gathering with them at the top, while large groups are slowing down. The government's own figures show that one in three households now have less advice than when Erna Solberg took over as Prime Minister, and so here the government is not able to decide what they actually want. Should the differences go down, or does it keep them on the level of the day? Two years ago the government said they would prevent the differences from increasing. Last year the government said they would reduce the differences. In the Common Era of the Year, the government says that they want to keep a society with little differences. But the differences in Norway are not small, they are too large, and they are increasing. In these World Cup times, I would therefore like to say that we have a government that does not even set in motion in the fight against Difference Norway. And when they rarely do that, they play dirty games, like in the spring when they made a big message about inequality, and Siv Jensen blamed for increasing inequality on the immigrants. It ended with a red card from the country's leading researcher on inequality, Rolf Aaberge, who said that the main reason for economic inequality is the increase in income to the richest. The government was disked for inequality. Economist Thomas Piketty is out with a new book on inequality, and he says: Today we live with an idea that the inequalities of the past were due to tyranny and despotism, while our world is democratic – and that today's inequalities are fair and well-founded. But it doesn't hold water, because the bottoms of claims from the elite that inequalities are natural and cannot be changed without it ending in a huge disaster. We also see the same thing in Norway. When Red proposed a scheme for dynasty taxes last fall, warned the right side and the NHO about mass redundancies and crisis. And over and over again, we hear the bourgeois say that we have no problem with inequality in Norway; we have to endure some inequality we have to have a society of freedom and value creation. This is completely wrong. Today's inequalities are not small, they are not natural, they are not necessary – these class divisions are created by humans and can also be changed by humans. When I say that, maybe some in the hall get provoked and will call it both absurd and remote, and you have to do that. The democratic freedoms that we today take for granted, as the voting rights of the poor and voting rights of women, were once rejected as almost dangerous ideas and inventions, for example. The great pulpit and ridiculed by the rulers who at that time also regarded themselves as democratic and freedom-loving. So here, in that case, you are part of a long, but perhaps not so very proud and honorable tradition. The good news is that our country is facing historic opportunities. Solving the climate crisis requires a political effort that we have barely seen. We can rebuild the country, more just and environmentally friendly. We can renew our society and create the green Norwegian model, which is based on the best from the tradition of labour movement, and which reduces both inequality and emissions – a model that develops industry and takes care of nature. And that job has to start now. We are promoting proposals from our side in today's debate on the throne that the Storting should therefore ask the government to draw up sectoral action plans for emissions reduction by 2030 and ensure that emissions cuts are made in a socially equitable way, for example through progressive environmental taxes based on economics, environmental pressures and environmental considerations. The social partners must also be involved. The Danish government has declared an ambitious and socially balanced and just climate action. Now is the time for us to take action in the face of the climate crisis and to equip the Norwegian model for the future. I'll bring it up to Red's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1339	The representative Bears Moxnes has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1346	Norwegian companies depend on having someone to sell their goods to. Then there's one thing that matters, and that's market access. The EEA Agreement allows Norwegian companies to export to a market with 500 million people instead of one with just over 5 million. That's what helps create well-being and security for work. Red wants to reject the EEA Agreement. They should perhaps learn from the situation in the United Kingdom. My question to the representative of Moxnes is quite simple: when the United Kingdom – a country with many times more inhabitants than in Norway, an economy six and a half times the size of Norway – fails to negotiate a better agreement than the one we already have through the EEA Agreement, how does the representative of Moxnes feel that Norway is going to get better out?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1353	The lesson from Brexit is that we should never become a member of the EU. It is hardly possible to get out of that Union. Now, fortunately, we're not members. We have an EEA agreement that creates considerable resistance in industry, not least because many see that the EEA Agreement provides for the import of right-wing policies from Brussels, and that it also leads to an increase in the soil for social dumping and undermining the pay and working conditions of Norwegian workers. There is a lot of background to the fact that many in the trade union movement are against the agreement. We want a normal trade agreement with the European Union. Very well known Norway sold goods to EU countries before the EEA Agreement. We even had the freedom of customs duty on all industrial products to the EU, and we had large exports of finished goods, not least raw materials to the EU. As long as the EU needs aluminium, oil, gas and fish – our products – they will also have an interest in trading with us, even without an EEA agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1358	The representative of the Moxnes was very concerned with the environment and climate, and that we need a system and a model that can meet those challenges in the future. I guess that's good. But what we also know is that past environmental challenges have basically been solved by having a healthy commitment, growth, profit and technology. It's technology development that has essentially taken a lot of the environmental problems we've had in the past. We have a system based on economic growth that gives us good welfare arrangements and good income. That system wants the representative of Moxnes to replace another tried and tested system — which has proved to be ineffective, which has put many countries in crisis. How does the representative of Moxnes think that this system should increase technology development, if it does not work?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1363	It would be thought that the representative of Engen-Helgheim spoke about the Norwegian model when he spoke about the system – a system in which there are strong trade unions, strong government governance and historically state-owned enterprises – a state-owned industry policy – where we actively step in to develop industries rather than allow the so-called market to be cleared up. Red supports and wants more of that type of Norwegian model, not least to bring up new green industries. But uninhibited capitalism – giving the most power to a few very few owners who will only maximize profit for themselves – is not the solution to either a climate crisis or an inequality crisis. We will give priority to a strong state, not least to bring up new industries where it may be difficult to get profitability next year, but where you can get profitability in ten to twenty years. Then the state needs to build up new industries, solve our climate emissions, and secure new jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1368	I don't think the representative answered the question, because what I was wondering about was the economic system. What the Moxnes rarely talk about is what he wants to introduce: it's plan economy. It's a model that's been tested. The last example is Venezuela, where this has not worked. He doesn't talk much about that, but we know that the climate exposure and climate action in these nations is never too much to boast about. How does Moxnes now expect such a system in Norway to contribute to a solution, when we need growth, technology and profit to bet on just addressing the challenges facing us? It has never been shown that the countries that have tested this have had a strong focus on climate and the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1373	The system we have today has a fundamental problem that it is based on eternal economic growth on a planet that has limited resources and limited ecological resilience. To reconcile such a system — with eternal economic growth in favour of the owner elite, which is a few very few percent at the top — with a society within which nature can withstand influences is the great contradiction to which the Progress Party has no answer at all. We got e.g. solved the problem of holes in the ozone layer by means of clear political decisions to ban certain gases, which enabled the hole in the ozone layer to be continuously expanded. The need for political governance is obvious – not a belief that the market will solve the problem, because the market will be managed by a small elite who will have the most for themselves, and not for long-term ecological reasons.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1379	I believe that this is the proven system that we have, with all the experience we have around Europe and outside Europe, we should build on further policies. If you see that the market economy works, that it gives us the growth and the profit we need in order to be able to bet on technology that can also solve the environmental challenges, I would bet more on it than replacing the system with another one that doesn't work. Could the representative, Mr Moxnes, provide an example of where the planned economy has worked to solve major challenges, such as: Contributed to new technologies to solve environmental problems?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1384	Firstly, capitalism gives us full speed towards the climate crisis, increased emissions and no solution to the enormous problems facing the world. It's obviously not the answer to continue with the system that primarily enriches a small elite. Secondly, we see that a great deal of innovation and the development of new technologies, including those that are climate friendly, is taking place by the state in front of large investments and providing new industries, new technologies. We see that innovation in health is taking place in our common public hospitals, not through private, commercial solutions, and that scientific progress is also being made to a large extent in the publicly funded and run universities and higher education institutions. We see that we can jointly develop a lot of new technologies and new solutions, but then the goal must be to get new solutions – not to secure wealth for the very few.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1391	I'm listening to the representative of Moxnes, and I'm sorry to have to say that, but I'm thinking about high school teacher Pedersen, the famous novel of Dag Solstad, which was written by Larvik Gymnas and the industry in Larvik. Those years I went to Larvik High School, so I'm high school Andersen, who then started working in the industry in Larvik. What marked that phase was maritime-proletarian people who had to descend to the workers to tell the workers what was best for the workers. When I came to think about it now, it was because Moxnes is standing here and saying that there is a huge uprising among workers against the EEA Agreement. I am a member of the Joint Alliance. There I know that the majority of the members see the importance of them, for example. can work towards the export market. So I want to ask Moxnes, can he tell me about a single union where the majority of the members – and I ask the members – are against the EEA agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1396	In the Transport Workers’ Association, there was a majority against the EEA Agreement, and many are opposed to the Agreement on the ground plane, not least on the construction sites. If one takes the trip there and talks to them and asks what has happened in the last 15 years in terms of social dumping, work-life crime and organisational status, it is serious, what is happening, and that is the background for many to turn against the EEA Agreement, also in the Joint Undertaking. There will be a national meeting in a week, and then we will see how Andersen's word stands. But the important thing is whether you take seriously what is the reason why the EEA resistance is growing: that many want to have more sovereignty and more governance over Norwegian natural resources, and that you say no to ACER, as the trade union movement did, while the Labour Party on the Stortinget unfortunately said yes with the citizens. This is the background for the growing resistance to an agreement which unfortunately provides for the import of right-wing policies from Brussels.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1403	The representative says that resistance is growing, and there are many issues related to the EEA Agreement, such as: the existence of an open labour market. There is a clear majority of the EEA Agreement among the members of the Joint Undertaking, regardless of how Moxnes listens to what is being said. But what I'm afraid of with the conspiracy approach they have to the EEA Agreement is that we lose focus on the fact that in this country we have a government that is right-wing, which introduces inadequate social dumping measures. It is the government in Norway that is the problem. It is not the EEA Agreement that imposes that on us. On the contrary, the movement of which Moxnes is a part, which confesses to Marx, does not seem to have come with what Marx said, was not: working in other countries, united you. It was, "Work in all lands, unite!" I have no faith that we can clean up social dumping without international cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1408	I don't think this Marx would think that putting the free movement of capital, goods, services and work across borders over all other considerations would be a sensible principle for workers' parties – with both large and small a. That is what is at the heart of the European Union. There is market liberalism put in the system and even the Constitution. It is the core of the EU system that we are part of through the EEA Agreement. It is amazing that the Labour Party, which puts the interests of the workers ahead, embraces a system of great favor for the large companies of the European Union, for their power and authority throughout society, but to the detriment of workers who have to compete against each other in a frontierless market, where those who can pay the lowest wage would like to win the competition against the others. That is the reverse, I believe, of genuine cross-border solidarity.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1413	The cord shift is over. The President will draw attention to the fact that even under a little heated line changer you have to titulate the President and not talk directly to each other, but talk via the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1420	Our main common challenge in the years to come is to build strong and sustainable welfare societies. If we're to succeed in that, we have to give everyone the opportunity to evolve, to live, to create profitable businesses all over the country. We're living off our common surplus. For this reason, it is actually facilitating private enterprises to create the surplus, one of the most important challenges of the years to come. If we're going to do that, we're going to have to bring down the transport costs, whether it's for people to and from work, by enlarging the bus and labour regions, or by shortening the travel time for Norwegian business. Thus, the focus on transportation is one of the most important initiatives of the bourgeois parties and has been over six consecutive years. There is a work that will continue in the next few years. Investments in transport have increased by 75 pst. since 2013. The maintenance of the Norwegian highway network has declined for six consecutive years after rising continuously every year for several decades. Norwegian Railways are within their largest construction period since we completed the Nordlandsbahn in 1962. Enormously many positive contributions also contribute to people moving faster and better towards the large urban areas through massive collective investment organisation, whether on the railways, or through government contributions to the major cities to develop and expand collective services. Technology developments are progressing at a formidable pace. It is imperative to follow the policy quickly enough – whether it is about drones, self-running driving gear or other technologies that are on the steps. But in some areas, we are also able to make an active contribution to the development of technologies that provide budding and new, profitable businesses in Norway. When, for example, using the climate challenge we have in this country, to ensure that we get profitable businesses, when we electrify the ferry fleet, and when we build skills in our industry as both incentives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and to build new, profitable jobs, we build sustainable welfare societies. However, the transport sector is also one of the most urgent reforms in recent years. Thus, the government has implemented major structural reforms in the transport sector, with two clear ambitions: one is to get more infrastructure for each invested krone. The second is to get commuting to people to and from work to work better. We are now beginning to see the results of the reforms, reforms that the opposition was thoroughly opposed to when they came: the establishment of the New Road, which was ridiculed, and which are now saving taxpayers for tens of billions of dollars in investment and increasing social benefits for the corresponding, the reform of the railway sector, which the opposition is crashing over today, but as we see with the first two rounds of bids, we are saving 3 and 5 billion respectively. kr over a 10-year period. Building viable welfare societies is about using our common resources smarter, not about retaining the state monopoly, as it has always been. That is why this debate, as so many other debates before, shows that today's multi-national government, which manages transport policy safely, makes a big difference both because we dare to change even when it is demanding, and because we are able to maintain an enormous rate of development. That's what it takes to fulfill all the honors that a lot of people in the Great Britain spend time on, easy to lay the groundwork for people to live and work in the whole country, make use of the whole country. These are stronger urban and labour market regions, to which transport policy contributes, shorter travel distances and greater competitiveness for business, to which transport policy contributes, and the green shift, which is about reducing our greenhouse gas emissions, not by plaguing people, but by launching new technologies that also develop profitable businesses. That's why the government is going to continue to build the country, so we're going to continue to reform, we're going to continue to invest. By doing so, we are laying the foundation for growth and value creation in the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1435	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1440	So far in the debate on the throne it has been said that our job is to solve people's everyday problems. I agree. Or even more precisely: I want to say our job is to make everyday life a little bit easier. Then I can't think of anything more reasonable to do than to make sure that people get to work every day. And I want to add, people are going to get to work and home again every day. It's not like that for the train commuters in the Oslo area. There's some nonsense almost every day. It's delays, it's cancellations, and the train commuters are in doubt. It is particularly bad on the Eastfold track, where delays and customs are very, very often. How long are the train commuters going to be in this, and what is the Minister of Transport's plan to sort this out?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1451	I agree with the representative Myrli that the results we have had on the Eastfold Railway in the last few years are not good enough, and it is really due – if we are to be honest – to lack maintenance and lack of investment over several decades. Therefore, it is important that we are now in the largest investment period since 1962 for Norwegian railways. Unfortunately, it is not possible to promise that all these problems will be solved overnight, because there are decades of political disbursement that are the basis for the situation we are in. But it'll help when we get to open the Follo tunnel. This will help when we get even more resources to operate and maintain. It's the government's clear ambition that we're going to get it for years to come. Then we've strengthened the capacity. We've strengthened the capacity of the Eastfold Railway so much that it's a challenge for us, because if we get problems once, the problems continue to grow. But we have to make the best possible use of the capacity we have. We're going to continue to do what's best for the train commuters, even on the Eastfold Railway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1461	It is very good that Follobanen is now being built, but today's travelers on the Eastfold Railway cannot wait years for trains to leave. This is too defensive from the Minister for Transport. What will he do to those who every day have trouble getting to work? And if they get to work in time, they may not be coming back in time. Instead of getting hold of this, the Minister of Transport will split up the Norwegian railway, and the money will run out. So the companies that have now won the new tenders, Go-Ahead in the south and SJ in the north, get tens of millions of bonuses if they can run trains on the first day of the contract period. I could imagine asking the Minister for Transport: Could he imagine introducing a bonus if all trains on the Eastfold Railway are on course for a whole day?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1468	I'm buying services on the Eastfold course with expectations, we have clear ambitions about punctuality on it. In those contracts, therefore, the counterparty – in this case those operating the Eastfold Railway – receives financial penalties unless a supplier has committed himself to the offer by means of a purchase agreement with the State, just as we use the bonus arrangements in the offer now to ensure that the transition from state monopolies to competition already works from one day to another. So the way to do it is, at the same time we give bonuses to ensure smooth transitions, so the train goes so that passengers can be happy from day one, save billions of dollars that we can reinvest in infrastructure, instead of paying the old state monopoly as much as possible to operate. Eight billion. kr we release, we can reinvest in Norwegian railway, increase punctuality, better maintenance and not least deploy more train departures, as this government has done over several years.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1475	Recently it became known that the Posten subsidiary Bring Trucking established a branch in Poland, a stone's throw from the Scandinavian market. Drivers shall drive to Scandinavia on Polish wages. From before, Bring Trucking has 300 trucks that run from Slovakia to, among others. Norway. In such international transport, drivers have much lower wages than is usual in Norway. We hear stories about drivers who have to stay and eat in trucks. With such pay and working conditions it is impossible for Norwegian drivers to compete. The Council of State said in its statement that he was concerned with new profitable jobs. I read – implicitly – new Norwegian, profitable jobs. Does the Council of State consider it the task of the Post Norway to use poor pay and working conditions to compete with other Norwegian carriers?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1482	The answer to that is no. It is not the task of Posten Norway to do so. But it is the task of Posten Norway to act as a commercial company with the services that Stortinget has determined that Bring should be competing for in the market. This means that the company itself has made assessments, and in order for them to be competitive also on some transports, they have chosen to establish themselves outside Norway. I believe that it is reasonable ownership policy not to interfere with all these types of assessments that the company itself makes. Our common task is to ensure conditions of competition, which means that the most possible companies actually do well to establish themselves in Norway, and that we stick to the contractual rules that apply, including to drivers, and that we manage to defeat them, for example. is an illegal cabotage operation in Norway. All of this is a daily follow-up work for the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1489	The director of the company Bring proudly says that the driver of the car from Slovakia and Poland will receive a salary of NOK 25 000, including a diet of NOK 410 a day, in effect a salary of NOK 12 000 to NOK 15 000. Does the Council of State consider it appropriate that drivers operating in Norway, who have established themselves directly outside the Scandinavian market, have to pay NOK 12 000 to NOK 15 000, and that managers of the whole state company Bring, when commenting on pay and working conditions externally, say that these drivers receive NOK 25 000 in salary — meaning that they are satisfied with the conditions of these drivers? It is possible that the state council that owns should not go into all the details, but he must have recorded what is the consequence, and what is happening in the practical everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1496	If it is the case that the carrier operates primarily in Norway, it must comply with the pay and work conditions as liabilities in Norway. This means that the premise on the question does not allow itself to comment, because these are international transports that are not regulated after them. This means that these transports are primarily not going to happen in Norway, and it means that there are shades in this which the Centre Party naturally happily overlooks to try to make this a political debate that is not the basis for. It is therefore a matter of owning a company – it has a company – that competes in a market and thinks it must be competitive in international transport, and so it has chosen such an establishment. If this company operated primarily in Norway with their transports, they must have followed the pay and working conditions we have in Norway. We have a regulation that ensures that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1503	Governments have been indignant since the Red-Green Week platform was ready. He says to the newspaper today that the Viking can now put the entire Oslopackak 3 at risk. The council must be aware that it was just the government's sea that did not listen to local consensus. If they had, this situation would never have arisen. In addition, the Council of State may have to weigh its words well when he now has to record that the political leadership of two regions — about two million people — believes that the extensive expansion of the West Corridor to 40 billion. kr is completely environmentally wrong and wishes for a clear scale-down. Will the Council of State at all think of using a minimum majority in the Grand Duchy, perhaps at the end of its reign, to force through this E18 against the views of the two regions, or not?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1510	It is very rare that I am indignant, nor have I been in this matter. But I have tried to clarify the potential impact of the Viking Plural Platform on an important road project – both for the whole of the central east region, and also for an important tribal road through Norway, which is important for large parts of Norwegian business. I've been very clear about that. It's not like the multiples in the Week seem to think, that this is an isolated project that's disconnected from everything else. Oslopack 3 has been a fragile political unity. A realization of the E18 project was an arrangement for it. Tolls have been required to co-finance E18, and through Oslopackakt3 it is also intended to contribute to further financing of E18. Oslopackakt3 is the basis for an urban currency, which means that the government contributed billions of dollars to Oslo. Therefore, I have said that as the political plurality potentially in play, unfortunately is larger than the E18. I want to make them aware of that before making a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1517	The Council of State did not mention racial protection in one word in its article, and it is one of our most important priority areas. Climate change and more extreme weather make this absolutely necessary. The security of people is in danger. This summer we've had a tragic death, people have been evacuated, and roads are crumbling away. In May, the government cut $180 million. kr for race protection, which they put back into the campaign. The Labour Party proposed 400 million. kr more than the government this year. It's estimated that 44 billion is now missing. kr. How does the Council of State think we can give security back to people when racial security is not a higher priority of the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1524	I have received this question many times before, and each time I have made it clear that the technical change that came into the revised national budget, because it had changed the progress of a project, did not mean a reduction in the effort for racial protection. On the contrary, over the last few years we have shown that we are investing massively in it. One of our main challenges now is that race and pace are beginning to come in places other than those we have traditionally planned to secure. This means that we need to review how we use these resources most effectively to secure our road network, our infrastructure, even for years to come. The Labour Party may assume that this government intends to follow up both in the transport sector and in many other sectors. It's about our ability to actually adjust the plans when we see that reality changes. We will be able to deal with this in the coming budgets, and of course this will also be a theme. in cooperation with the county councils when we are now working on rolling out the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1531	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1537	When a country faces major challenges, such as climate challenges, it also increases the importance of its coherence. When the differences are too large and the contrasts between people are increasing, our ability to raise in groups is also becoming weaker. It's not just about the differences between the city and the country, it's also about the differences between those who have a lot and those who have little. Therefore, I would like to say that one does not build the country through closures, one builds it through growth and value creation in all communities. A developer does not develop the possibilities of people through a cut and demand policy, one by following up, setting up and creating strong communities around each and every one of them in this country. We have to reduce climate change and reduce the differences between people, no matter who they are, and no matter where they live. Here are the dividing lines between the Labour Party on one side and the Right Party on the other. We're sometimes very common people, quite ordinary wage earners all over the country, giving billions of dollars in taxes to the richest of us. We in the Labour Party also show in our priorities what is important: that people have a job to go to, that gives them a salary to live on. In today's hall, we also have a proposal that came up with one million Norwegians, which is simply fuelling the pension from the first penny. We're looking through our solutions. Now, after the local elections, it also means that our spokesmen, our local politicians, are going to work for firm, whole settings in each municipality and each state. Many of our spokesmen have also written climate contracts and made clear promises about changes that they want in their municipality to help release. Already in the last few weeks before the Bigholding reunited, both the Labour Party and the Right Government have shown up their cards in some things that are important to people. While the right-hand side will cut into the pending retired screen saver, there is something that will not be supported by the Workers' Party. We need social arrangements for our old, especially those who have experienced life against themselves, and who need the community to stand up. The right-wing government also shows its cards in the nostalgia – that’s probably a bit of the very point of the nostalgia – and I’m concerned when they in the nostalgia announce that they may not be ready to file a case for the Storting on full-scale CO 2 handling before 2021. This is not what the industry is asking for — they are clear that if the clarifications do not come in the next year, the clarifications will be too late. Norway can then miss the opportunities offered by this in industrial development, the building of competences, the competitiveness and the jobs involved, as well as the fact that we do not take the lead in this area either. We don't build the country by talking about climate change emissions or by talking about CO 2 handling, we build it by creating industries and jobs that get climate emissions down, and it's the Workers' Party ready to do. The report from the Power Tax Selection was also published recently. He's going to listen, he's going to discuss politics, and he's going to be treated later. But already there is a basis for saying that for us in the Workers' Party, it is crucial that communities that make their natural resources available for development and value creation, of course, also have to have sheltered from those values. They have to get their share of the money that this creates, especially when they're willing to take the disadvantages that power development can also give. Those who have grown up in municipalities where water power has a meaning know how much it has to say that the justice is being fixed. It'll be the Workers' Party to contribute to. Norway as a nation rises best when all bidegregs. Then everyone has to have the possibility, then all parts of the country have to be developed, and then we have to bring down both climate emissions and the differences between people. Then it is the party that stands for the future, for industrial construction and for ordinary people, who are one need. We don't need any more policy for decommissioning, for renunciation or for market forces.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1564	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1569	The representative Tajik spoke hot and well about how important it is for more people to contribute and be involved, and one of the important tests on it is how many people are at work. The representative Tajik himself – in a line change with the representative Trond Helleland – used 2008 as a reference point for whether the level of employment has increased or decreased. Since the turn of the millennium, the employment rate in Norway has been declining slightly due to the ageing of many. 2008 was an exceptional year, that is a fact. From 2016 we see that the employment share is increasing, and it is now higher than it was when the red-green government went off. My questions to the representative Tajik are two. Firstly, does she agree with that explanation and description of the employment rate in Norway since 2000 and with the fact that 2008 was an exceptional year? And secondly, does she agree that the employment rate is higher in 2019 than it was in 2013, when her government went off?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1576	I agree that the employment part has gone slightly up in recent years, but I do not share the view of the representative Asheim that 2008 is not a relevant basis for comparison. It was a time when the economy in the country went well. Now we're back in a situation where the economy in the country is going well. Then you have to expect that a greater part of the population is at work, that one uses the good time to create space so that more people who can be at work are actually at work. I also support the Ministry of Finance and the Norwegian Bank for both of them, i.e. that the underlying productivity growth is calculated to be much lower than before the financial crisis, that he is actually almost halved. I expect the representative to follow up with a new question, so I am curious whether he agrees with the Ministry of Finance and Norway Bank in this particular matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1581	In terms of productivity growth, that's exactly one of the reasons why we're taking all of the grips we're taking to increase it. But I don't feel that I got an answer to the question, so 2008 is an exceptional year in terms of the employment rate. It's an extraordinary year, it says pretty much everyone who can read that graph. The question is whether the representative considers it appropriate to use a statistical deviation as the measurement point for whether the employment rate rises or falls. And my second question was: Does the representative agree that the proportion is higher now than it was in 2013, if she is concerned about that share going up?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1588	We can conclude that we are not some if it is relevant to compare 2008 or not. It is my view that it is relevant, because it was a time when the economy went well. When we also determine that the economy is going well now, it's natural to expect that one can get more people to work. The right control is not allowed. What I'm also busy with is seeing what the trends are right now. What are the trends and developments? Unfortunately, the development is well described by the Ministry of Finance and Norway Bank when they conclude that a situation is much lower than before the financial crisis and that almost half the productivity growth has halved. This is what I would like the right-wing government to do, but I only record that the way they have met these questions – both Trond Helleland and Henrik Asheim – shows that they do not think this is serious. That's what the Labour Party thought.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1595	The representative Tajik was in the municipal elections and what we can expect from the Labour Party's spokesmen, both when it comes to climate, and when it comes to part-time, etc. Unfortunately, there are several of them. Despite the fact that they made a bad choice, we heard earlier today that 60 pst. of all the Nordics want to live in a municipality with the Labour Party chairman or bureau owner. When we see the change to the left Labour Party now taking, we will experience – in addition to what was said – that one is attacking welfare professionals, and that one is busy recommunizing more and more services. Many in Norway have to look forward to the implementation of the Workers' Party. My question is on retirement. The representative spoke about normal wage earners. They also get a pension. One is that those who provide the services will receive an in-house pension. One wants to return to the benefit pension. I wonder if the spokeswoman in this area can explain why it is possible that 1.4 million ordinary wage earners should have an introductory pension. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1604	The fact that the Labour Party in many municipalities has proved to be a preferred partner, so that one has managed to establish a cross-party community, where we can lead a policy for ordinary people, for wage earners, I am happy to confirm, even if we didn't achieve the election result we hoped for and pursued. When it comes to welfare professionals, as the representative here refers to, the Labour Party is concerned that common welfare should as far as possible be on common hands. It's also a question of not wanting to be released by private, commercial actors who can take advantage of ordinary people's tax money. That is what will be the reality of the policy of the Right and the Progress Party, as they themselves describe it in their own platform. They say you should see what they do in Sweden. There they have chosen to have a free right of establishment for private actors in the care of the elderly. That's not what the Working Party wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1613	The representative started his speech by saying that we are not building the country through closures, and of course I fully agree with that. This is not least when we are going to strengthen housing and business in district municipalities. Agriculture is the most important district industry, and we see that more and more people have been forced to lay down their jobs because of the predatory problem. In particular, we saw it after the bloodbath in the north-east valley last year. This year the same thing is going on again, and many are very hard hit. The government's predatory policy is a policy of closure. In recent years we have seen a sharp increase in the wolf population, and it is spreading over ever-new municipalities in pasture-priority areas. We have to do something about this. As a result, the Centre Party has proposed standing molting permission on the wolf, which runs in Trøndelag and in Gågebostad, Lvgal, Kvinesdal and Åseral. [[President clubs]] Will the Workers' Party support this proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1622	We're concerned that our districts should be alive, that there should be growth and value creation there. The aim is to facilitate a differentiated structure of use in agriculture, so that both small and large-scale gardens have a basis for operation. We also want to ensure that there is a basis for industrial development in all parts of our country by using natural resources. Of course, when it comes to the question from the representative on predatory policies, we will have contact with the Central Party on this matter. But what's important to us is that one can have a balanced approach to this issue. We feel that the government does not. And that means that it's important for the Workers' Party to address this matter on behalf of those who experience the predatory problem at close range.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1629	The cord shift is over. The President will draw attention to the fact that speaking time in the Grand Duchy is not indicative, it is absolute. This also applies during the line changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1637	Norway is a fantastic country — a small country, which sometimes feels like a large country, inhabited by people like stone by stone, who have built up what is today referred to as the world’s best country to live in. In this strange, small and big country, we're fighting each other. We take care of those who are struggling, not just over public budgets, but we help our neighbor carry the heavy goods into the apartment, and there are more and more – and especially men – who are setting up and waving in when someone is going to park. This country has not become of itself, or become overnight. It's been like this for generations. We have always known, ever since we were a much poorer farming and fishing community, that it must be created before one can reap that it must be created before one can share. When the Right is so dedicated to creating a sustainable welfare society, it is essentially a matter of respecting this Norwegian tradition. If we are to have a welfare society that distributes the values fairly in our country, we must also have values to distribute. Those values must be created, and therefore we must have value creation. This means that jobs must be created throughout the country. Then we must have binding trade agreements with our neighbouring countries through, for example, EEA, we need a tax system that attracts Norway to value creation, not push it out of the country. We have to build the country along with road and rail bets, so you can live anywhere. We have to have an education system that allows more young people to complete high school and become self-held. And we have to make sure that several of those who are out of work come into the workplace. We hear in this debate that one opposition party after another says that the municipal elections were a message that the majority in Norway wants a new course. But – and this becomes very topical towards 2021 – a majority for what? We know what they're common to, and that's us, but what are they for? Both the SV, the Centre Party and Red Party will notify Norway of the important EEA Agreement. All parties will increase taxes, some of them dramatically. Both the SV, the Red Party and the Green Party will dramatically cut road construction in Norway. They agree to cancel some of the most important things we do for a better school: skills requirements, admission requirements for teacher training, and absenteeism. They are consistent opponents of changes that contribute to the foundation of the Norwegian model; it is always worth working in Norway. The contrasts are great. This policy will take our country in the wrong direction and threaten the sustainability of our welfare society in the long term. It's not always so heady to strike a blow for the necessary reforms to make the calculations go up, or that we have to do it before we can harvest. But the alternative is dramatic cut in our well-being and a weaker ability to stand up for those who need it the most. If there's one country that knows how important it is to take care of nature and gently harvest it, it's ours. The climate and environmental issue is one of our main challenges in the future. If someone knows how important nature is, then it's just the North – never by protecting, forbidding or stopping development. We have carefully harvested and preserved our nature for the future and for the generations to come. Norway can contribute internationally by providing electricity to Europe, or by using the expertise and knowledge we have to create new technological solutions. The right is the party that believes that it is not just individual choices but structural changes to solve climate problems. The centre party is the only party in Stortinget that voted against our binding climate agreement with the EU. The Swedish Environment Party and the Greens seem to be most concerned with winding up, regulating or hindering our industries, not converting and investing in them in a new era. We are a country that has always cared for and taken care of those who need it. On the right was the party that opened the private sector in the 1980s with closure laws and competition in the ether media. Now our new battle is about the publicly funded services – freedom of choice and power over your own life, especially in a vulnerable situation. We're going to use all the good forces, and they're going to get away with it. We shall not shut the door of half society when all the people are to be lifted. 2021 becomes a choice of the way forward for Norway and of policy alternatives. There will also be an important decision as to whether Norway should continue to be the world’s best country to live in.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1656	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1661	The Ådne Cappelen in the SSB was able to prove this summer that Norway and Norwegian economy are becoming more oil dependent. In 2018, Norway’s external trade deficit — corrected for oil — amounted to a total of 250,000 million. kr. In just the last four years, the deficit in Norway has deteriorated by more than 50 pst. This is in stark contrast to what right-leader Erna Solberg promised at his national meeting before the right-wing government joined. She said, ‘The heir to Jens Stoltenberg is a more oil-dependent Norway’, and it was supposed to be a conversion of the Norwegian economy. The SSB figures show that the legacy of Erna Solberg is a much more oil-dependent Norway. That's why I want an answer from the Right fiscal figure: what's the reason for this spectacular breach of promises?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1668	Firstly, it is absolutely right that we have to make sure that Norway has more legs to stand on. That is why we must have a business policy that creates new businesses, and that is why we disagree with the Labour Party, for example. the proposals for increased taxes and charges for business and for more regulation. It is worth remembering that this government tightened the rule of action, from 4 pst. to 3 pst. We've been under 3 pst. used in oil money every year. If the Labour Party's problem is that we're too dependent on oil money, they have a much bigger problem. They proposed using more oil money than the government provided at the latest in the revised national budget. If we're going to make that transition, it's not about how many dollars there are in the individual budget, but about investing for the transition that's absolutely necessary to create new industries. I think it's quite obvious that the non-socialist side and the non-socialist government have a completely different policy of creating jobs and investments than the red-green side has seen, with all the examples of disagreement between the parties that I spent time on in my post as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1677	That's right: this is about how to invest the money. Then we can take two other key promises that Erna Solberg has had as Prime Minister. The majority in this room criticised the government for the lack of follow-up in the field of preparedness. A third concrete promise that was made before the right-hand government joined was that the hospitals would be strengthened by 12 billion. kr. The concrete promises have also been broken as clearly as possible. The question then has to be: When you break the central promises – one by one – are there errors in the budgetary work on the Storting that are the cause, or is it the government that is unable to follow the promises they make?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1684	To begin with, preparedness: it's one of the really big challenges we have. We see that the government is now building a new emergency centre – the Workers' Party has been somewhat unclear on that issue – and new helicopters are coming. We also have our own emergency minister, who will keep this together. In addition to that, the criticism from the Sandtrøen representative is that we don't spend 12 billion dollars. kr on health. That's why we reached the goal of 9 billion. kr. So if the Workers' Party is very concerned about oil money addiction, but only looks at the number and not at the target, namely that the waiting times are falling and more people are being treated – the results are going for less money than we thought it was going to cost – it's going to be expensive to rule the country at some point in time. That's why I think the election in 2021 will also be about this: financial accountability and making sure to get more out of the money we're giving, instead of just looking at the amounts and percentages.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1693	Turn a blow to the necessary reforms, said the representative Asheim – and jobs across the country. The government uses advice and choice to lay the foundation for its own policies, a policy that is currently breaking in all directions. The government is not a casual victim of experts who prescribe centralisation policies. The government must have an idea of what will happen at the other end, when they appoint their selection. The review melody is «robust», «attractive disciplines» and the conclusions are «less, larger, better». The Christian People's Party, at the latest today, highlights its view of centralisation, among other things. of the district courts. As I also said in the reply to Mr Gruvan's representative, a major change is being proposed in today's district court structure. My question is: Will the Right, when this case comes to the Storting, promise that half of the country's District Courts will not be closed for good, and vote against such a fury of the rule of law?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1702	Let me start by saying that it's not like this government has changed Norway. Norway has changed, and when Norway is changed, sometimes changes in the management of our country or in the way we solve things have to be made. I think the most dangerous thing that can happen to a country like Norway – a small and open competitive nation in a big world – is stamina, where you say that everything was better before. It's not to stand still; it's slow, but certainly to be pushed back. So to the question of the District Courts: it's an expert committee that has proposed this. We haven't concluded how it's going to go on. The government has to discuss that. But it's worth remembering that one of those who haven't supported that particular solution, but who have pointed out the importance of heavy professional environments in the courts, is the Children's Ombudsman, who says that it's important to have solid professional environments there. What's going to be the result of this, of course I can't stand and promise now, because we haven't dealt with it in the right. We just got a report. But it is clear that we also need to listen to the forces that say that for weak professional communities in the courts, legal certainty can be compromised.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1709	It was interesting to right the post of the representative Asheim. He said that there had to be structural changes to deal with climate crisis, and that the climate and environmental threat is the greatest in our time, but there was little concrete about what to do. Something I have challenged the Right on earlier, is structural problems when it comes to money. Where are the money going to invest in this society? If we're going to be able to get the big green shift, we're going to have to invest in the big green shift. But the way we've put up the tax system, etc., makes it actually more advantageous today to invest money in property than in other industries, new industries, green shifts, etc. SV has proposed to do just that twist, so it will be more beneficial to invest in the new instead of placing money in property. Why, then, is it more advantageous to invest in property than in industry and other industries under the blue-blue?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1716	This was a whole new way of arguing about housing taxes for ordinary people, by saying that this is about industrial policy. Of course it doesn't. As far as investment in secondary housing is concerned, this government has changed that, compared with the red-green government, in which SV – as far as I remember – had the Minister of Finance. We are the ones who have changed it so that it is calculated in the same way as other investments. But where I think that the representative Knag Fylkesnes and I disagree, is the question of whether the housing of people should be a treasure or a place where you live. I think the very few are in a choice either to buy an apartment for their family and their children or to buy shares in Kværner. I think most people have it as the big investment in their lives. Therefore, it should not be a tax item, seen from the Right's Eyes. On the other hand, it must ensure that for those who consider investing in property as an investment, it is now taxed in the same way as for other investments.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1723	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1729	Norway is a fantastic country with some enormous opportunities. It hasn't come of itself. Norway is built through generations, through the efforts of hard-working and skilled workers, through the presence of small, medium-sized, but also large enterprises that have helped to build the country, through the gradual development of a public sector to facilitate good services throughout Norway, and through the presence of forward-looking politicians who have been committed to ensuring national ownership and control of natural resources. With today's political majority, there is a trend that is going in the wrong direction. One sees that there is pressure on pay and working conditions for workers in a number of professions in Norway, not least in a number of practical professions. One sees that for Norwegian enterprises in a number of industries, it is both an unfair and sometimes impossible competitive situation to deal with. One sees a state that in large areas of the country withdraws, and one sees a large majority that gives away sovereignty, giving the EU power over vital parts of Norwegian energy policy and Norwegian industrial policy. There is a need for a different direction of development. The politicians who were foreseeing the early 1900s managed to secure when Norway had still not become an energy nation — yes, there is a majority in the energy nation of Norway today in the process of sprinkling away. It is incredibly important to learn from history and what it has done for Norway to ensure an energy and industrial policy that ensures that we use the rich natural resources we have — using the abundant supply of renewable energy and electricity — to build jobs in Norway, to build industrial communities around our long-term country, instead of sending it out as a pure commodity to the rest of the world. To the discussion about new foreignables – I recorded that the government has been competent enough to ensure that the NVE concession treatment on the NorthConnect cable was not going to be part of the election campaign this year, but was going to be right behind: this is a pure export cable, which will facilitate the export of more electricity than the total electricity consumption of some of the largest industrial communities in Norway combined. It is a very unwise policy, which will contribute both to increased electricity prices for people and businesses in Norway and to disappointing jobs. In this room, the EU's third energy market package has been endorsed, with vital parts of Norwegian energy policy being put into the hands of the EU. The fourth energy market package, which the EU has now adopted, will go further. A new EU and ACER power over decisions related to the development of cables and related to the governance of such an important area in a society. It is therefore important for one to contribute to the entry of the government into this room and to explain the areas of energy policy and the EU, both in terms of energy market packages, and in terms of the attacks by ESA — and new attacks — on the system of relapses. Then I have registered that several politicians so far in the debate have tried to give a description of what is happening in Norwegian trade union movement with regard to the EEA. Well, what happens is that the management of the largest private sector has taken the initiative to obtain a public inquiry into the scope of the EEA Agreement and alternatives to the EEA Agreement. That's at least the smallest size must be able to join.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1744	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1749	The representative, who has also been the leader of No to the EU, has been active in pointing out that we should terminate the EEA Agreement and, where appropriate, replace it with a trade agreement. We have many skilled company managers and employees out there who themselves point out the importance of an EEA agreement to secure jobs in District Norway. The director of Elkem said it so clearly: saying that the EEA Agreement can easily be replaced by a trade agreement must be a lack of understanding of what it is, because without this agreement, which ensures market access for our products, and which is also involved and ensures cooperation in the environment, research and competence, Elkem will not be able to operate industry in Norway. I have two questions: Is this manager wrong? When we see the chaos around Brexit and the United Kingdom, do the Center Party really dare then set in motion a process that will threaten jobs and settlement in District Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1756	For many decades, long before the EEA Agreement, Norway has had good trade cooperation with other countries. Norway is an open economy that depends on trade with other countries. If one keeps fish outside, we have had duty-free access to the EU market for all industrial products since the late 1970s. Of course, future trade cooperation must be based on good market access, but we must also ensure that this is done, among other things. the head of the main private sector is concerned, who organises some of the employees in the companies to which Ebbesen's representative refers: we must both ensure market access and be masters of our own house and ensure that we have governance in important areas such as energy policy, industrial policy, transport policy and labour market policy. We do not have that in the EEA today. That is why there is a need for an alternative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1761	It is interesting to hear Gülsvik first talk about saying no to all pipelines and then say that we should have good market access. In that case, it is a little selective what time to have market access and not. When we have natural advantages in Norway and can produce pure and good power, some of us think it's okay that we also share with others so that they can not produce coal power to the extent that they do today. My question is also about energy policy. When Stortinget dealt with the energy message, I read that the Central Party, together with the Environmental Party Dei Green, SV and the Workers' Party, which are the parties they often cooperate with, was some that they would ask the government to ensure that «the current fossil fuel and polluting means of transport taxes are gradually increased». We in the Progress Party strongly disagree with this. I think people in the whole country need a car and they should be able to afford to drive a car. My question to the Center Party is: Does one still think that one meant at the time that a gradual increase in the costs of those who run a car, in Norway as a whole?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1768	As regards power and export of power, it is quite right that the centre party disagrees that it makes sense to export power as a pure commodity out of Norway. It is much more important to use what has been a competitive advantage for Norwegian industry and industrial travel in Norway — access to power at a competitive price — in Norway. The total power surplus in Norway amounts to approx. 0.4 pst. of the need for power in Europe. Rather than bet on exporting it, we should bet on using it for jobs in Norway. To what goes on fees: Here stands the king of fees, the representative of Njåstad, as the representative of the Progress Party. There have never been higher charges in Norway than under the Finance Minister of the Progress Party. Fuel charges have also increased — in addition to the electricity and other charges.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1775	As far as I know, we only have one king in Norway, and he was here yesterday reading a good throne speech. We have fought against many of the fees to which the representative has now referred. They have been responsible for the bulk of our money, but the tax and tax burden has decreased with us in government. My question is not about what the Progress Party thinks about fees, because I believe everyone knows – that we want lower charges, especially when driving a car. My question is what the Center Party thinks about it. Is there any consensus in your own note that a gradual increase in these fees, or does a now come about new and better thoughts and meanings, like the Progress Party, that people in the whole country need cars and then may have lower charges?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1780	I am sorry that I placed generous titles on the representative Njåstad, but what he cannot get away from is that he represents a majority in this Chamber who every year submits proposals and adopts the state budget. In those proposals, fees have increased year by year. They're over five billion. kr higher now — the fees in total in Norway — than they were when the Senterpartiet was in government. It is a fact of the policy and political priority of the Progress Party, where it has become massive tax cuts for those who have the most from before, while ordinary people have increased tolls and increased taxes. It's a very unwise policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1785	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1790	After hearing some of the articles, I would like to clarify at the beginning of my article that we live in a wonderful country. It's been so great to travel around the last few months and visit different municipalities and different communities that go down, where people thrive, and where it's settled. This is one of the things we work every day to take care of and develop. What you would like to call a sky over the government project, a red thread through the throne, a sustainable welfare society, is one of the things that I think is incredibly important – sustainable welfare societies in the sense that it's about managing resources for the benefit of those who live here today, but also in a generation perspective, that we have a management responsibility for the next generation, not just in terms of money, but creation, taking care of the environment, so that the next generation has equal opportunities. But the term "welfare society" shows something more than that we're just talking about a state. We're talking about a welfare society. The whole core of the Christian People's Party ideology is building society from below, building families, small communities, volunteering, communities. That's why one of the important initiatives this government is making is to ensure more children have a safe and healthy upbringing. We know that if they grow up in safe, good families, the chance is greater. That is why we are strengthening our families. Next year, for children between 0 and 6 years of age, we're going to increase the amount of child benefit by $3,600. We strengthen the commitment to parental support and lifelong learning, and we will introduce a further pilot scheme – several municipalities will be test municipalities in the case of a children’s and young people’s leisure card between 6 and 18 years of age. All of these measures are particularly important for families, people with low incomes, and that is because as a society we have an extra responsibility to focus our efforts on helping those who need it the most. We need to invest more in children and young people. Then family policy is important, and the growth phase and school itself are important. That is why the Christian People's Party has fought for a better school. In the fall, at least 2,000 more teachers started because of the important impact the Christian People's Party has had on introducing the teaching norm, which is especially important for the younger students, where there are several teachers who can see each student. I believe that the school is getting even better, and the chances of success are much better. Combating poverty is about creating jobs. Some of what I think has been amazing in recent years is that 40,000 new jobs have been created, most of them in the private sector. It means something to those who have been outside, who now have the opportunity to get their own income, but it also means something from a generation perspective, because we know that the budgets are going to be more and more demanding in the years to come, and the creation of new jobs is absolutely essential for us to be able to distribute as well. For the Christian People's Party, it is also that we are whole people, crucial. That's why there's always a commitment to volunteering, to culture, to faith and to life. We have delivered matters to the Stortinget that Stortinget will work with the next year, related to faith and outlook on life. We establish that we are to be a life-seeking society, because faith is important to individuals, and faith and faith are important to society. It has a social force. If you think about all the amazing work that's going on in different religious communities around this country, it means enormously much, it means an enormous amount of volunteer work, and it means enormously much to the welfare society that we're all so happy with. That is why we have also put forward a new legislative proposal to ensure a good funding of the religious communities and to clarify the ownership of the Information Society Fund. With regard to this 200-year-old little mystery fund, we have a proposal where we say – and hope the Storting joins – that the values of the fund will benefit the churches, to help us finally get a boost in the maintenance, maintenance and repair of the beautiful churches around the country. When we talk about a sustainable welfare society, we also have global responsibility, for climate and the environment is one of the core elements of sustainability. When the aid budget comes on Monday, one will see, after the income of the Christian People's Party in government, that one thing is that we see the world's poorest, but we also take global responsibility for climate.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1809	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1815	Children who are failing by their very closest deserve a society and politicians who do everything in their power to give these children a better life. But it's barely a week without media coverage about the screaming needs of more people in child protection. Professionals are concerned and have confirmed it in the report after report, in NOU after NOU. The National Audit Office has come up with clear criticism, and with the award-winning Heierna campaign, the child-restraint staff showed that they have had enough – it is no longer possible. They need more colleagues to give our weakest kids a better life. We in the Workers' Party have proposed a child-restraint lift, a quality reform with ear-marked positions, and that the commercial forces should be phased out. This was agreed by the Christian People's Party – before they came into government. Now they're part of a government that's opposed to this. How will the Council of State explain to people – those who are now rebelling – that the Christian People's Party chose power and government in front of a proper upgrading of child protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1824	Thank you for an important question. Child protection is extremely important, as the representative says, to help the kids who unfortunately don't get the growth they deserve. That is why we have strengthened child protection. There is an enormous amount of work being done in the field, and in recent years, the Storting has also adopted many changes that will come into force in the next few years: I am particularly concerned with competence, strengthening competence. For 2019, we're spending $90 million. I believe that it is important to improve skills. But I agree with the representative of Trettebergstuen that crewing is important. That is why I am very pleased that there has been an increase of 1,300 children's protection employees since 2013 and until 2018. It's a big boost. And child protection is managed municipally, so it's the municipalities that have made that promise, because we believe that they know the issues best. And if I don't remember completely wrong, it's an increase of 27 pst, that's a strong promise that the municipalities have been able to make, thanks to a good community economy from this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1831	The Council of State is pushing responsibility from here to the municipalities. That's what I think is strange, with the uprising that's now out there. The fact that the child protection employees say so clearly that this does not go any further, I believe that the Council of State should take seriously and take responsibility for it. It is strange that the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party, while the Christian People's Party was in opposition, together did a good job of getting child protection up and going again. It was so that when the Workers' Party proposed to earmark money for several child protection posts, the Christian People's Party was involved. When we proposed to phase out the commercial forces of child protection and phase into ideal and stately, the Christian People's Party agreed to this. When we proposed a quality reform for child protection, it was something that the Christian People's Party supported. None of the three points support today's government. We were on the line; the Christian People's Party has changed course. Does the Council of State feel that it was wrong that the Christian People's Party supported the Workers' Party's three points for reinforced child protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1846	First, I just want to say that talking about shifting responsibility to the municipalities, I think it is completely wrong. Who is responsible for municipal child protection? These are the municipalities, and in principle I thought that the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party agreed that it should be municipal, precisely because the municipalities know the situation best. They're the ones who can see how to work best for these kids. Is there even more employees in child protection? Is it setting up environmental workers? Are there measures at school? This is what the municipalities know best, and I think it is important that they still have that responsibility. But we're holding on to the policy. In the last six years, we have been strengthening child protection through the budgetary conciliation process. It has meant a lot to the most vulnerable kids. As far as non-profit actors are concerned, the government platform, if one reads it, is also clear on that very point, I am in the process of following up what was a request decision from the Stortinget – which the Christian People's Party also stood behind – which I believe will both strengthen the quality and improve the offer given to the kids.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1853	So the Christian People's Party in opposition was for earmarked money for more child protection positions. Today's right-wing government is against it. The Christian People's Party in opposition was with the Workers' Party that the commercial forces should be phased out, and that the state and ideal forces should take over the places. Nothing of this has been done by today's government. What does the Council of State think about the Christian People's Party and its own persuasion in the government for the benefit of the weakest children?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1860	This is wrong. Firstly, as I said, in the case of non-profit actors, we are doing that work and follow up that request decision. I have black Storting about it before. This was an important priority for the Christian People's Party, because we believe that it is not just the public that has good solutions, we also believe in ideals. That's why we've been involved in strengthening that sector, and we're working on it. When it comes to ringing, there is some ringing in the budgets today, but I would also warn against thinking that just earmarking funds for child protection is what gives the best solution. In fact, in some cases more money has been allocated from the municipality when it is not earmarked, because there can also be a kind of roof over the number of posts, so that one gets money for example. being able to hire another person in the protection of children. When it is not earmarked and they get good appropriations from municipalities, they choose to hire more people. In addition, the municipalities know best. Local authorities are more closely involved, and it is not always the case that there is one extra element in child protection that is the best measure. There may be other types of arrangements, and local authorities must be allowed to govern themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1867	It is this council that is responsible for our child protection, and it is not an easy task a day. As was mentioned, there is rebellion among employees and pressure from, among other things. The Children’s Ombudsman for more jobs and more resources. At the same time, we have now been sentenced in the European Court of Human Rights in the Lobben case, and there are 26 issues on Norwegian child protection to be dealt with there. In addition, there have been a number of public reports and investigations that point to lack of organisation and high-quality problems. 28 pst. They are now saying that they do not trust Norwegian child protection. I do. But the theories about what's wrong, about everything that doesn't work, and about the solutions, are very many. I therefore wonder if the Council of State believes he and the Department have the full overview of all aspects of child protection that work and do not work – not to talk about whether he has solutions for everything that does not work.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1874	Now, as the representative is well-known, we have just concluded a hearing on new child protection laws. We are working hard to follow that up, and there is a matter for Stortinget during this period of modernisation of the law and important changes that are being made there. One of the most important things we do – together with 1,300 new employees in child protection from 2013 to 2018, which is a strong boost – is perhaps the level of competence. I'm glad we give big sums every year. I think we're spending $90 million. kr for the current year on the commitment to competence. For example, we improve. the conversation process in the department. There might be a matter already in the spring. We're in the process of following up in a lot of areas. And in terms of the international focus – the representative refers to the EMD – it is something we take most seriously, and that will be part of the follow-up when we create and send new child protection laws to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1881	Thanks for the answer. I think, unfortunately, that neither the Council of State, the Department, nor anyone else has enough overview or the way to deal with all the challenges of child protection. I'm sure there'll be some good suggestions in the new Children's Protection Act. Yes, raising skills is going to help, but is enough to get good people to stay standing in a job like this. gets so much hoarse? The foster home problem is a separate chapter. We don't even have regulated foster homes and foster families. In parallel with the fact that too many serious issues are now being identified by the media and in reports, many municipalities are doing good and innovative work in the field of child protection. How can the Council of States ensure that we are able to reveal everything – everything that is good and everything that is not working – and really put the challenges and needs of child protection on the agenda? Many people call for a Children's Protection Commission, an independent investigation, which looks together at all aspects of this complex area. What does the Council of State think about considering such a commission?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1888	My starting point is probably the same as that of the Children's Ombudsman, who commented on that question, that we know a lot about the challenges, and we are doing targeted action in the fields and for the challenges we see. So I think a commission can delay the work and not necessarily be what we need right now. I am pleased with the representative's questions and the arrangements for them, because it's about how we, as politicians, can help build confidence in the employees. We know that working in child protection must be one of the most demanding jobs. You work with questions that are so important for the lives of families and for the lives of kids, and we know that almost in any case there are demanding dilemmas they face. That's why maybe one of the most important messages to send out is that the vast majority of issues relating to child protection work, fortunately, are voluntary measures, where child protection is inside helping families. It is only in extremely few cases that you have to go to the step of using either coercion or care. We have a very big focus on this, and I promise the representative there will be many issues in the next few years.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1896	When the Christian People's Party went to the Right and the Advance Party, they secured both power and majority for a policy, among other things. embossed by unsocial and petty cuts. It particularly affects those who have at least from before, and also people who struggle with health. The Christian People's Party was, before they went to government, ready to resist, for example. cut in redundancy pay. Now they believe, however, that this is a good idea. The last cut came today: Young people on redundancy pay, people like Ingrid from Elverum, who we have heard about today, who suffer from latex after cancer, get cut their income by NOK 60,000. Ingrid says that she can no longer pay the rent if the government gets what they want. Is it such that Ropstad has such great faith in miracles that he also believes that cuts in income will make the sick healthy?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1903	First, I want to reassure the representative that the example he refers to will not be cut, because this will apply to new cases. Then I want to make it very clear – and I also used a lot of my contribution – that the Christian People's Party has had an impact on extremely good politics, which means a lot to those who have bad advice. The budget that comes on Monday will mean a great difference in the lives of very many people. This will be a strengthening for families – and not least for those families who have poor advice. An example of this, and where I know that we agree, is the increase in child welfare for this year – and not least 3,600 new dollars for next year. In the case of redundancy payments for young people, I believe that this is a proper approach. It is demanding, but it is about strengthening efforts to get more young people to work. Since 2000, the increase in AAP and disability has been 50 pst. And we know that only one out of five comes out of work from the AAP. Then we have to grab some grips. Now we're strengthening the follow-up, so this isn't a cut. There is a distortion from social welfare to action, so that even more young people are going to get into work.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1910	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1915	The Labour Party is at a party with everyone in this country who wants freedom, equivalency and being able to move towards their own goals. Doesn't everybody really want that? Norway is still a good country to live in for the vast majority, but some start to leave, and some remain. Because where you live, the level of education of your parents and the family economy you grow up with is still crucial for your health and for how long you get to be healthy and living. In Norway, differences between those with good health and those with poor health are increasing. It is unfair that those with the worst living conditions must also experience more sickness, pain, suffering, and former death. We can't stand that in a country that's so good to live in. Several older people also give many more good years of life for very many, but many people experience disease and often more illnesses when their health starts to falter. When our king, who was here yesterday and opened the Stortinget, visited the municipality of Malvik and our great rapporteur, Ingrid Aune, he said that old age is wealth and disease. And that is quite well said. More elderly people mean more happy lives, but more older people will also need our healthcare — that it is good enough and that it is available enough. The fixed medical system is the very foundation of our common healthcare system. The decision-makers see the individual, provide treatment and advice, and are further linked to specialised treatment. But the system is in crisis, and it has been for a long time – even though the Minister of Health has allowed more time and will wait and see. Half of our municipalities are struggling with recruiting permanent workers. The Labour Party believes that the 2018 budget and the 2019 budget were already in need of immediate action to ensure that this system ensures all access to medical services, and to recruit more doctors into the scheme, so that the doctors there can cut the length of their patient list and stay in the service. Too many people are now applying for a different profession. Meanwhile, commercial companies establish themselves with medical services in municipalities by municipality. A now-and-da doctor for those who can pay, is there the Right Solution to the fixed crisis? The right-wing government has in its platform the objective of creating a sustainable welfare society. What does that mean? Does this mean that our hospitals are not sustainable? Is that why they have to cut the budgets – because they have to? Now the budgets for next year for our hospitals, and where I live, the local hospitals have to cut 100 million. SEK – 64 years – by 1 April next year. In the South, hospitals must cut out 178 million. kr. And at the Hospital Telemark they have to pay for patients outside the hospital – who are in the hands of private treatment because of the privatisation reform to the Minister of Health. Ambulance bases are laid down in the districts. Is it what the government means by a sustainable welfare society – longer waiting for the ambulance? If you get sick, trust the community. If the community doesn't set up, some people will be able to pay for themselves, and it seems that the right parties think it's fine – it doesn't worry them. But that means that many will fall outside, and it worries the Workers' Party, because social injustice has always worried about the Workers' Party. A sustainable welfare society is a society for all, not just for those who can afford it. At the end of the day — safety for health care when urgent: the air ambulance crisis has still not been resolved. Dedicated aeroplanes and impaired standby are reported daily. The insurance from the Minister of Health to the Stortinget was not worth anything. Three months after the new operator took over, this start-up problem can no longer be called.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1930	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1935	The Labour Party has promised and promised things, most recently with promises, both in the budget and in the election campaign, without it being clear how the promises are to be financed. In fact, the Workers' Party has said that they will increase taxes by 15 billion in the future. Although even with such a large tax boost, the new freelifts are not funded. Only the promises of free public dentistry, free SFO and school food will cost more than this. So it's not going to go up. If all the promises are to be fulfilled, the taxes actually have to rise somewhere between 25 and 30 billion. kr – not from day one, but when the promises are fully fulfilled. Does the Labour Party believe that there is a responsible policy with such a large tax increase and sending such a large tax bill to businesses, when we need it in the future, is creating more jobs in the private sector around the country – new, smart, green, safe jobs to ensure future well-being?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1940	The working party delivers its alternative budget in balance. There have been budgets that have focused on the most important things in people’s lives — a safe and accessible healthcare service, a welfare state that is there when you need it, and an offensive industrial policy that enables us to establish a new industry in the districts that provides income. The representative Agdestein and I come from the same constituency. We come from the same state as well, but the state has changed. I read Tronder-Avisa, and there I see that every time the government proposes centralisations, the representative is Agdestein opposed. The representative Agdestein has also been very concerned about the fixed medical system, which I weighed in my post. So I am a little surprised that the representative Agdestein is more concerned about the guarantees of the Workers' Party, as I hear her clear voice every single time her own government centralizes the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1947	Then I almost have to ask the representative Kjerkol to clarify what she means. If she's aiming for e.g. power taxes and property rights structure, there's something the government isn't behind, but it's current political issues that we're probably both concerned about. Does the representative of Kjerkol not understand that it is felt that the Workers' Party has left behind as a responsible governing party when we conduct the form of over-the-counter policy that we have seen in the election campaign, when we promise more than we can finance, and when we do not have cover for the promises in our own budget and will send the bill out to families and businesses?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1952	I think it's a touching concern from the Right when you think the Workers' Party promises too much. I can assure you that when the Workers' Party comes back to government, our government budget will balance. It is a very fine clarification by the representative Agdestein, both on the rights of things and on the sample that has looked at the tax revenue for the power industry, that it is not the government's policy already to clarify that one will go further with it. It will be exciting to follow. But the situation of Agdestein's opinions locally has been the same when it has been the centralisation of North University, and also when it has been the budget of the local hospitals in Trøndelag. That list is long, but unfortunately the budgets for which the representative Agdestein is voting do not reflect it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1959	The proposal to shut down Norway’s largest emergency hospital, Ullevål Hospital, has upset many. There are very many patients who have protested, the inhabitants of Oslo and the Oslo area. It is a professional environment – the trauma environment at Oslo University Hospital on Ullevål – that has warned the most strongly. Former Managing Director of Ullevål Hospital, former Labour Party State Council Tove Strand, has been one of the most obvious voices to investigate Ullevål as an alternative, in combination with getting Aker as a local hospital for the whole of Groruddalen, taking off the capacity of Aarhus and dropping the gigaplans you have on Gaustad. In the new metropolitan government in Oslo, there is a majority against the plans to lay down Ullevål Hospital. Will the Workers' Party now support a proposal to investigate Ullevål Hospital as an alternative to the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1966	I'm not negotiating town council power in Oslo. It would have been fun, but unfortunately I'm not invited in that way. When it comes to the Oslo University Hospital process, it’s about – for the next 30 years – seeing three emergency hospitals in Oslo or four. We believe that there is an additional obligation in the Capital Region to build on the best possible use of resources, and the most limited resource available to healthcare today is access to skilled professionals. If the Center Party wants you to have a fourth new hospital in Oslo within Call 1, 2 or 3 – I always say wrong when I try it – it will obviously have consequences for all hospitals in the rest of the country and their access to specialists. For us in the Workers' Party it is urgent to have Aker hospitals built, and therefore there should be progress in the project.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1974	I did not ask the representative of Kjerkol about the urban council negotiations in Oslo. I just concluded that in the elected City Council in Oslo, there is a majority to consider Ullevål as an alternative, and asked Kjerkol if the Workers' Party in this Chamber would agree and support that one should consider Ullevål as an alternative. After all, it is about taking care of Norway's largest emergency hospital, about a professional environment – the trauma environment – which strongly warns against fragmentation, and at the same time about the possibility of developing Aker as a local hospital for the whole of Groruddalen and stopping the gigantic plans at Gaustad, against which both economically and professionally have strong counter-representations, and which can hit the hospital offer elsewhere in Health South-East. That's why I once again ask the representative if the Workers' Party is willing to support an investigation of Aker as a hospital for the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1983	I replied to what the Workers' Party believes about Aker Hospital for the future. We believe that it is urgent to have Aker hospital built. To what's going on about the hospital structure in Oslo: I have to say I'm surprised by the eagerness of the Center Party to build the most acute hospital in a city where there are opportunities to reap greater synergies from bringing together regional functions, as all other regional health regions have done. I'll try to challenge the representative Geelsvik for one comment. The framework for healthcare in Norway — no matter who the Minister of Health is — is the technical requirements for treatment. They have to be just as good everywhere. When the trauma environment is so clear on what they need to run national trauma centers in the new university hospital in Oslo, I expect Health South-East to investigate it further, with the premise to build [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1992	The conductor must remember the speaking time. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e1999	Last week a part of us visited here in the hall, Svalbard. It is perhaps Norway's most beautiful and wildest place, with amazing nature: high mountains, ice-blue fjords, fresh air that bites its cheeks – and uninhabited inhabitants. For people are just like Svalbard: wrong. But the fjords aren't like they used to be. About ten years ago they stopped freezing again. Icebreakers that have been lying for thousands of years are melting. The permafrost tins, the houses move, and not even the mountains are just as bumpy. There's a race going on, and they're thinking about moving an entire city to manage the changes. Four degrees warmer has become on Svalbard - four degrees. It does something to you to look at it closely, see that it has already happened, and to experience the fear of people who have to live with it because climate change has led to race and progress – not just because it's disgusting to prevent it from happening again, but because it takes life. Here on the mainland, we have a hard time grasping what a warmer world will look like. But we know what it looked like when it was colder. When Norway was four degrees colder, we were covered in a two-mile thick layer of ice. That's what four degrees means. Norway is changing on this generation’s watch. We have one month shorter sketchesong now than when the oldest ones here in the hall grew up – so all the robber stories I've heard about how much snow there was, and how tough it was to get to and from high school, are almost true. For the snow disappears; it was more before. It's happening right now, today, and we can't stop it. It's too late. If we grant the entire state budget for climate action, we will not get the snow back. It's already happened. But we don't live mainly by snow. We are a port, a nation that has lived by and by the sea for generations. It's part of our soul, our identity, and it gives us huge revenues. Last week, the IPCC launched its report on climate and sea, and we can – once again – read that the sea is getting warmer, acidifying and losing oxygen. It threatens natural diversity and Norwegian income. In the Pacific they're getting ready for the ultimate challenge. They've been feeding on the sea – always – and now the sea is swallowing the islands they live on. Kiribati is such a place. Kiribati has bought an island. Take a look at it: a country has bought another country because they are drowning. Climate change also poses increased safety risks. They can contribute to civil war and refugee flows or provide the basis for violence and terrorism. The conflict in Darfur was intensified by the drought. The areas around Lake Chad are in crisis. It has, in turn, helped to create ground for extreme groups like Boko Haram. So it is people who are already in a vulnerable situation, which is hit hardest by climate change, not us – we live in one of the world's richest and quietest countries, climate change does not lead to war or mass migration with us. So, like oil-producing countries, are we going to tolerate so deeply the wrong that does not affect ourselves? I note that those who shout loudest in social media respond to an ice-cold yes. I don't believe in egoism. I believe in being with other countries. Our responsibility is reinforced by the fact that we are a country that has served us heavily on fossil energy. However, there is no contrast between a healthy planet and a healthy economy, but we need to change the way we live, to preserve the quality of life of people. That's why this government has done much more than any other government in the climate field. That's why my old blue-grey party has now turned blue-green. That's why the government is stepping up its efforts every year, but it doesn't last. We want more -- much more. I'll be able to see my own daughter in her eyes as she grows up and understands what I'm working on. I'll be able to tell her that I've done everything in my power to take care of the country she'll grow up in. Because there is no threat – no threat – that is greater for our children than climate change. It's not strange they take to the streets to make us understand it. We only have one planet -- we can't do like Kiribati and buy a new one. This crisis defines our time. How we deal with it defines us. We're going to fight in Norway, we're going to fight to land and to water, we're going to fight with courage and strength, we're going to defend our coast, our nature and our planet. The time has come to be brave.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2029	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2034	It has been interesting to hear the representatives of the Right in this debate. They are satisfied with their own efforts, describe things and have no new ambitions either at work, health or – last but not least – at climate level. At the same time, we see disparities growing in Norway. In Stavanger, my home town, my claim is that the Right lost the election precisely because they failed locally in the fight against the increased child poverty and the increasing differences. That's why I have a little question of principle. The logic of the right is clearly that the rich are motivated by getting more, they can get tax cuts in the billions class, while those who have the least are motivated by getting less, now that this massive cut in the minimum wage for young people on redundancy pay: Can the representative from the Right explain how this logic is connected?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2041	I am not so very surprised that the Workers' Party does not ask me about the climate, to be completely honest. So I know that the Workers' Party is trying to establish it as a truth that the differences are increasing, but that's not the case. Differences in Norway are much smaller than in other countries — in fact, we are one of the world's highest countries. Unlike the left, we in the Right believe that the path out of poverty is through work and not through social security. There are too many people out of work, and that is why we have taken action both to launch an integration process and to get more people to work. Nevertheless, the situation in Norway today is that there are probably about 100,000 children growing up in families with persistently low incomes, and children feel this on their bodies in a completely different way from what we adults do. That is why we have introduced measures such as: activity cards, trebled the money into national grant schemes and increased housing support, and rates, I think – if I remember correctly – about 180 million. SEK on child poverty in 2019 alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2046	Yes, it has become clear in this debate that it is precisely the Right that has been implemented in the government's policy on this. My question is about this with motivation. Why is it that those who have the least in this country should be motivated by less, while those who have the most in this country should be motivated by more? This government has contributed with the wrong medicine to solve the challenges that the representative points to. When a kutter in the minimum wage and curtails the disability supplement and is opposed to introducing a pension from the first crown, it has not helped to meet the challenges that the representative is also facing and attracts. But I want to ask a question about climate. After all, climate change is also unfair and must combat climate change, it must also combat inequalities. Does the representative agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2053	For that with motivation, most people have got to keep more money than they had under the red-green government. Differences are smaller in Norway than in very many other countries, but I am very happy that the representative deals with precisely that with inequality. I very much believe that we are going to have an impact on a good climate policy, and if we are going to get the whole of Norway involved in the green shift, we have to have measures that will make it not affect them financially. There must be a situation that allows you to live a normal life. It does not have to be bad and difficult to pursue climate policy. We don't have to add that it's going to be a harder everyday for most people. I think we have to be able to combine it and have two thoughts in our head at the same time.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2058	This week we have received investigations from the Power Taxation Committee and the Court of Justice Commission. The Kraftskammission proposes to remove power revenues from municipalities throughout Norway, and the Court Commission proposes a massive centralisation of district rights and land change rights to the largest cities. It has been that smaller municipalities and smaller districts have been completely absent and have not been represented in these samples. Of the 23 members of the Power Taxation Committee and the Court of Justice Commission, 20 are from larger cities – not one municipality of power is represented, and not one court of closure is represented. My question to the representative is whether the Right believes that such a composition of public authorities is problematic and whether in the future the government should change the composition and ensure district representation in samples, especially when the result is of great importance to the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2065	As the representative says, in the case of the power tax committee, it is a proposal that has been put forward, and then we have to assess it. However, the municipalities shall not be deprived of income. Our parliamentary leader has also spoken about this earlier today, so I think we should take it quite calmly. What I think is a little fascinating when I hear the Central Party in this hall, is how the Center Party is always against everything. The centre party is against climate, against cables, against energy cooperation, against quota cooperation, against emissions cuts, against using taxes to strengthen the climate, and – as the only party in Stortinget – against a climate agreement with the EU. They are against the strengthening of the police, against the strengthening of the municipalities and against Norway cooperating with other countries. It's starting to be a lot of 'against'. It's very interesting and positive when the Center Party comes up with suggestions for solutions, but unfortunately I don't think it happens very often. I want a Center Party that is clearer on the solutions instead of just being opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2073	We got a very good description of the climate challenges from Westgaard-Halle, and I myself was present at Svalbard with the representative last week to see this. If we roll back a few months: In the summer, Minister for Climate and Environment Ola Elvesuen interviewed the newspaper Dagbladet, where he went in to cut Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions by 90–95 pst. by the middle of this century. According to the Minister for Climate and Environment, this was to be done without quota purchases. The party's environmental figure, Terje Halleland, was quickly out there and could not understand where Elvesuen was from, and soon after, the prime minister also went out and cut the targets of Elvesuen. My question to Westgaard-Halle is: Is the representative most in agreement with the Minister for Climate and Environment or the Prime Minister on this issue?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2082	First of all, I would like to thank the representative for a very good question and the opportunity to clarify any ambiguity. I think we're going to be as good as zero emissions in Norway by 2050. The Granavolden platform is clear that emissions should be reduced by 90-95 pst. by 2050. What we don't know, on the other hand, is what the allowance system looks like in 30 years' time, or if it's at all allowances again. Therefore, it is necessary to plan for this domestic approach. I think both Erna, Ola and Terje are going to enjoy the pension life in an almost zero-emission Norway in 2050.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2087	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2092	One of the main tasks of the Left's policy is to ensure that all children are safe and well-growthed. It deserves everyone who grows up in Norway, wherever you are born, and no matter who your parents are. We work for a brighter and more social-liberal society, and by ensuring that all children get a good upbringing, a good schooling and a good education, we all give equal opportunities. The kids are our first priority. They're going to take over from us, they're going to find better answers than what we have today to the challenges we're facing. Our children are the future, and we owe them the best possible starting point. It gets them through good education and being included in good fellowship. It was the Left who introduced the primary school, where the rich and poor were to sit next to each other on the school bench and learn the same thing. Today, all children in Norway attend school, but the differences are greater in two other arenas that have become more important and important and better and better, namely kindergarten and SFO or activity school. It depends largely on economics. All children deserve equal opportunities. They shall have the freedom to choose their own path, and the chances they get in life shall not depend on who their parents are or what they serve. Then the effort must start early. The fight against child poverty and exclusion is a struggle for freedom. The aim of the left is that everyone who wants should be able to have their child in kindergarten and in SFO or activity school. No child should be kept at home because parents cannot afford to use these important offers. Kindergarten works, and it works especially well for kids who do not speak Norwegian at home or who have parents with poor advice. In kindergarten, young people learn languages, social skills and motor skills, and are better equipped for school – and free core time works. Five years ago, one in four minority-speaking children in kindergarten were without kindergarten. In 2017, it was less than one in five. Now, two more years have passed, and we've made sure that even more people get free core time, i.e. 20 hours free in kindergarten every week. This was something we prioritised at the top when we were a cooperative party and made a budget with the government, and we have prioritised it after we went into government. Now all five-year-olds from low-income families have a right to free kindergarten, i.e. over 46 000 children have this possibility. It gives them equal opportunities in the future. Here we see a main difference between Left's policy and that of the Red-Green parties, most recently confirmed by Jonas Gahr Støre in the line change earlier today. There we once again saw the fear of targeted social arrangements by the Workers' Party, despite the fact that these schemes have been proven to have a positive effect on the young people who have been covered by them. Several go to kindergarten, and by doing so, many of the most vulnerable children will also succeed better in school and in life. I fear that if the Workers' Party comes to power, this fear of targeted schemes will lead to good measures such as free core time in kindergarten being scrapped, and that the price tag to give it to everyone will be so high that no one gets it. The next step now is to have the same reform for the SFO that we've had for kindergarten. For those who have had free kindergarten today, the transition to school everyday life becomes difficult. Today there are no rules on the price the municipalities can charge for SFO, and many places you pay twice as much for a few hours in the SFO as you do in the nursery. That means that for those families who have bad advice, it's impossible to give the six-seven-eight-year-olds the good and important offer. There they get to play with other kids, where they get food, where they can do homework and participate in organized activities. I want an SFO that is for everyone, a safe place to be, and where children can know about mastering and sharing. It's supposed to build up under education and be a good framework around school day. That is why I am very pleased that the Left has been given the opportunity to make a national framework plan for the SFO – of course with local adjustments – and that in the autumn state budget we start on the road towards what is left's goal, namely free stay at the SFO/AKS after schooling for children from low-income families. The left's riselift is a historical effort for the kids who need it the most. The basis for this promise is universal arrangements that are available to everyone, and I want to underline that. Everyone has the right to go to school, everyone has the right to go to kindergarten and SFO, and the state already takes a large part of the bill for absolutely all children. What the left does is either to reduce or to remove the excess for those who have the least. It's social, it's liberal, and it's also economically sustainable. That is why the Left is on the side of the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2113	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2118	When the Left, like the Center Party, wants to be a green party, I want to deal with a slightly different theme than the one that the representative was most in. It is on the recommendation of the Power Taxation Committee to the government, and the condition for the removal of revenues from hydroelectric power plants, which are now going directly to the municipalities. The managing director of the municipality of Lom says, among other things. to the newspaper Fjuken today: ‘These systems have been the basic political negotiators for over 100 years and have worked well in district and redistribution policies, both in terms of construction, industrial development and value creation. There are 175 municipalities that are now at risk of losing this basic service provision and future threat.’» [[of which more than 80 per cent are minimum income municipalities]] Seeing the municipality could lose 27 million. kr and 20 pst. of employment, Vang municipality 34 million. kr and 16 pst. of the budget. What is the motivation of the representative from the Left Local Community to host power plants with significant natural interference?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2130	Thank you for the question. It was nice to have an opportunity to talk about another very important topic, namely the environment and not least the availability of energy. Now I'm really in favour of not pre-concluding reports being submitted, and just launching it in a line change here in Stortinget, but that we're actually going through that kind of reports, looking at the proposals and taking it seriously. I understand very well that the municipalities that today depend on these revenues fear what is going to happen. There are municipalities that absolutely feel that they need some kind of compensation because they have contributed to giving us energy. At the same time, I understand that part of the reason for these changes, among other things. is that we have a tax regime today that prevents innovation and that prevents us, for example, from doing so. exploits these power plants and regains more power for the investments actually made. It is important that we make use of these shades too, that we are able to find solutions that guarantee both the income of municipalities that give us clean power, and also ensure clean power in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2139	Here comes a third important theme. I'm recording that the Left likes to present itself as a socially liberal party. In principle, the Left shall then represent an active State and the freedom of individuals. But today we see more and more the contours of a Left who in a market liberal right-wing government in practice is working towards redistribution, despite the increase in economic differences. My question is about student support and student housing, actions that are very important for education for everyone. Does the Left see that the fellow course for which they are responsible makes education less flexible and can affect vulnerable student groups? And when student homes are so fundamental to ensuring equal opportunities for study and queues are long, why is Left content to build under half of the promised student homes in 2019?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2148	Once again, I thank you for the opportunity to raise another important topic. I just have to admit that one of the things I'm most proud of is that the Left has been involved in over the six years we've had influence over the state budgets, is that we've got a historic big boost for the students. Over the eight red-green years, we had three parties that put together in government, all of which agreed that we had to increase the student support, but that never made it. After the Left came to power, we have managed to get eleven months of student support – a promise we made to the students before we entered the government, and we are actually doing our job. It's really the first time we've had a real boost to the student economy since Kristin Clement was the State Council. We also have a historically strong commitment to student housing – a much stronger expansion than when the Workers' Party was in government. Our challenge now is to ensure that the relationships actually get built the homes we have spent money on. We are of course ready to grant more if they are able to speed up both planning and building locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2157	Then I hear nothing but what Mr Kolberg heard earlier today, when he confronted the parliamentary leader of the Left with the policy of the Left in government. The representative Melby said in 2016 that the Left is the guarantor of good student policy, and now the same representative really defends a weakening of two fundamental measures for equal opportunities for higher education. Another example is that the Left, along with the other government parties, voted in favour of the Workers' Party's proposal for a Student Living Conditions Survey. It's been many years since the last time we did this, and we need an up-to-date and good basis for a targeted policy to improve the student's living conditions, the study situation and the implementation of higher education. So my question to the representative Melby is: what is actually the Left's plan to ensure equal opportunities for higher education in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2166	I have to start by saying that I do not recognize myself in the reality description of the representative Sandberg, neither in the way she stamps the government, nor in the job we do for students and for student policy. What has been the students' clearest demands every year I've been an active politician, has been increasing student support, getting eleven months of student support, and speeding up student housing. Both of those requirements have been met by the government – and so on. Then she brought up a very important topic about students' mental health. It is also a theme that the government has — and I know that the Council of State has — a great deal of attention, and a number of measures have been implemented. Actually, I don't think the first thing we need right now is another study that tells us what the situation is, but that we need action that strengthens the role of communication, that strengthens the community service where these students actually live, that makes them get help when they need it, where they need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2174	On Monday, the Education Committee had consulted on SV’s proposal to put an end to teacher training at Nesna and nurse training in Lake Sandness. Left's own minister of higher education and research, Iselin Nybø, has rejected any attempt by a number of representatives in this room to get her on the job on the occasion of the case, and she has repeated almost to the dullness that this is up to the governments to decide. Does the representative Guri Melby agree with his own minister, who, under the authority of the boards, says that we should leave to the board to take state – yes, national – decisions that can rage against local communities and weaken regions?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2179	Thank you for the question. In recent years, I've spent a lot of time traveling to schools around the country, and there's no doubt that training enough and good teachers, and getting them to all municipalities across the country, is one of the biggest challenges we've ever faced. It's a challenge that we're systematically working on. Among other things, we have the establishment of a number of teaching places, and we provide, for example: many benefits to those who want to study in North Norway. It has given results, as we have a record search for teacher training, which will give us better access to qualified teachers in the future. As far as North University is concerned, I am fully in line with my own Council of State: this is within the mandate of the universities to decide. I actually trust that the very best people will be able to dimension the offer, that they can decide exactly where to have a place of study and not. I think that if we start rocking it, we're out in a very dangerous galley, and it would have been interesting on a later occasion to hear what the representative in general thinks about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2186	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2191	I believe the census showed a government that has lost some spark and lacks ambition in areas where action is needed. We're facing a shortage of skilled workers, teachers and nurses, we need to get more into the workplace, and we need to solve the climate crisis. The government can't solve all these major challenges. The lack of teachers and the lack of nurses is not solved, they are increasing. There won't be any more jobs. On the contrary, Erna Solberg's government has set a record in the number of misdemeanors. Climate crisis is increasing in strength, without the commitment to climate research and action. Education and skills can solve many of the major challenges facing Norway, but in 2017, Norway lacked 1,000 primary school teachers and the shortage is increasing in the years to come. Already today, Norway lacks almost 6,000 nurses, according to Nav, and the need will only increase in the years to come. At the same time, the fact that the government is not able to invest in several places of study and leaves thousands of qualified applicants in line is a social problem. That is why the Workers' Party has proposed several study places in our alternative government budgets over several years, with particular emphasis on professions that are important for the welfare state. If Norway is to be a knowledge-based economy and win excellence over prizes, we need to enable more people to study, give them time to study and quality while they do. In particular, it is urgent to ensure that students have enough teachers in the years to come. Today, there are too few primary school teachers, especially in early childhood, too low the level of teacher training and there are major challenges in recruiting and maintaining new teachers around the country. This is a challenge for those students who in practice meet the teaching shortage in the classroom and who experience that there are several unqualified teachers in front of the board. The policy of right-wing rule is too passive to meet this teaching shortage. There has been a lot of debate about the character requirements of teacher training. There is a debate in which both the Labour Party and the Right like to participate, but when there are proposals to improve the quality of teacher training to get more people to complete the study, shadows the Right and government the track. When, before the summer, the Workers' Party proposed an increase in the intensity and practice of teacher training, the government parties voted against it. That's too bad. If our students are to get the best possible education in the classroom, they must have qualified teachers. It should be a clear goal for all those who are concerned with raising the quality of our students, to put an end to the fact that future teachers are among those students who spend the least time on their studies. Unfortunately, the government has abused the opportunity — when teacher training increases from four to five years — to fill it with more content, more study intensity and more practice. As I said, this is primarily a problem for the students, but it is a challenge that we politicians have to take more seriously, and a power cap is needed to get more teachers across the country. Finally, the Labour Party is proposing today to scrap the government's proposal to force the states to introduce so-called free school choice. First, because it is not a free choice of school, but a character-based intake that favors students with good grades, not those students who need to be able to choose freers. Second, it's because this selects the states best of its own. Different schemes work in different states. Oslo, Hedmark, Telemark and Troms are different and know best what benefits students there. Troms are e.g. a state that is 50 times the size of Oslo, with one third of the students. Forcing the two states to have exactly the same order is not just remote from reality, it shows how little the government understands of Norway outside the government quarter. If it is that the Right will force all states and all elected states to implement the same solution by sending out a decree from an office in Oslo, they can only put the celebrations of local democracy in the drawer. In reality, the proposal on free choice of schools means an unfree choice of schools for most people. In the districts, it poses a direct threat to a decentralised school structure, which means that more students do not have room in their community. When the Right argued for the regional reform and for the coercion of states, it was among other things. justifying more power and responsibilities for the regions. Then it's paradoxical that one of the first things that happens is that you have to force all the states to rule as you want to, and not as the local politicians in the region want.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2216	I sign up for a service in Stortinget to improve working life in Norway, to deal with the housing problem in working life and with the prospects for young skilled workers, like myself, in the workplace. I wanted to spend my speaking time today on the major challenges of working life, but when I woke up this morning I saw that there had to be a budget cut, the work clearance system and the well-being that gets my five measured minutes. The government's welfare budget has been seriously put into system. Every fall we wait for new cuts for single groups in society. For years, the government has been pursuing a policy against what they call a viable welfare state. It has largely been about welfare protection. A large number of cuts are in individual items on the state budget, but there are also large general cuts, such as the ABE reform. Overall, this has resulted in drastic changes in the welfare supply of the population. Some of the last in this series is that the government thinks that disabled and sick people who become retirement pensioners have too much money to spend on. So it's a cut that's going to happen. This just doesn't hang out. According to the government's reverse logic, it should never be paid to get sick and sick. It means in practice that one should always, in any case, be the one who has the most, least of all. Back the rhetoric that it will pay to work, justify the government cut after cut. There is no research that says that one gets faster at work or that one gets faster if one gets smaller. This is an intrigued motivation that the government has invented. One of the most serious cuts that has been made is the work-clearance scheme. The results have really started to appear now. People have been under the custody of their spouse. They're transferred to the municipalities' social budgets, and people are quarantined for one year without further clarification. All of this seems quite contrary to the intention and the goal, simply faster clarification and getting more out of work. Today we wake up to a budgetary leakage of even bigger cuts for the same group. And this isn't just a little bit. It's $68 000 a year in the cut of an already low income. The government believes that those under the age of 25 will be able to live with 130 000 kroner in a year, which will cover both the cost of medicine and the cost of living. They also don't have the ability to work. Thousands of people are in a frame. People are being led into nothing, without being ready for work, without being prepared for dissatisfaction, without having any tools at all to be able to improve the situation itself. This is the welfare state of Norway today. Yes, he's almost not worth calling a welfare state anymore, because the security network that once took care of people in a difficult situation in life is no longer there. If you get sick now, you will be served a time limit to get well - three years of consultation in a tough hub and a health care service with long queues and waiting lists. In order for us to get more people into the world of work, we have to invest in them. We have to make sure that the public provides the service that is needed for people to work, in a way that actually works for people. The policy that the government has now pursued for several years, which only seems to escalate, is not working. The government is unable to do anything about the number of failures. Several thousand people are led into poverty as a result of cuts in redundancy money. Can anyone from the Right answer me about where the research or the expert is who proves that making people poorer or quarantine them leads to faster healthier or getting to work?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2231	It feels necessary, as the first speaker after the last speaker, to announce that the welfare state is still here. It exists. We live in it every day, and it serves us well. It has never been the welfare state's goal to pay off work. The welfare state's objective has been to provide a safety net, and that is it. We know where to go. We're going into a more complicated future where competence becomes more important. We're going to go into a future where the extraordinary income gets lower and it becomes more important to create profitable jobs. We're going into a future where we have to reduce emissions, but at the same time secure well-being. We're going into a future where we can't be ourselves enough. The possibilities we have to contribute to the green shift, we need to use and share with others. And for one from Ashøy, it's impossible not to say: we have to get a future where all the water in this country is safe. We're actually on the right track. Unemployment is at a full-time level. The employment rate has increased. The representative, Tajik, will be corrected: it has increased. It is quite right that in 2008 we had the highest level of employment we had ever had. Then it fell. Even when Hadia Tajik was Minister of Culture, it fell. And then it fell and fell. But since 2016 it has risen again and is on its way up. It's the first time it's stood up that way since the 2008 financial crisis. So we can be proud that more and more people are coming to work. The daily payments have, the last year it has been counted, sunk by 3 billion. kr, and wages and salaries have increased by 58 billion. kr. Less people get social security, and more people get paid. The lack of education has declined, increasing our common base of knowledge and competence. This competence base is the value and well-being of the future and is strengthened by an increased commitment to research. Fossil emissions are on their way down. In August this year, we used nearly 24 million litres of less fuel than last year, to land, to water and in the air, or – if you want – over 80 million litres less than what we did in August of the last year with a red-green government. It's not just electric cars. Emissions from the marine sector also fall, inter alia: due to a unique commitment to zero-emission ferries. It's going the right way, but the ambitions of course have to be greater for the future, and we've presented them here. It goes the right way, but they still ask for a new course. I would say, instead of changing the course, you have to drive on – or set sail, to use a more climate-friendly image. In the oil sector, one of the biggest changes we have seen has been proposed. Some say we should have oil shame, I think we should have oil pride – pride in the values, the welfare and the job the oil workers do, not shame. As an alternative to this policy direction, sometimes what I would call a Harry Potter-like political approach is given: it is believed that if you find something you are not satisfied with, points to it and says the magic spell of the ‘government!’ it will magically disappear. But that's not the reality. We still have the good news to hear what the policy option is, in addition to increased taxes, fewer individuals in care and a list of industries we have to end up with – which will provide lower investment, fewer jobs, lower user adaptation and less innovation and efficiency. Two years ago, there was a reference to unemployment and the level of employment. The availability is now record low. But most of the proposals that have come from the opposition in this area over the last two years have not been about increasing the room for investment in businesses or making it more attractive to get to work. No, most of the proposals have been about reducing investment through higher taxes, making it easier to stand out of work, and telling us what we shouldn't live on – whether it's agriculture, mining, oil exploration, gas extraction and now, last but not least, wind power. All of this would have given higher emissions, lower revenues and less well-being and a reduced knowledge base. You point to the problem, but give no solution or cure that is worse than the disease. The behaviour of the centre party in this room is now as if they are trying to take over the logo of an organisation called MOT – against, against, against and against everything. But I'm going to promise that the organisation MOT is far more constructive in its approach to its activities than what the Center Party is. In my area, fisheries, we have experienced something quite strange lately, where the central party's fisheries policy figure has now twice tried to make concrete proposals and alternatives. One of them he has rejected himself, and the other his party colleague, who is the head of the nutrition committee, has refused him. The wand was raised, but the spell returned to the conspirator. We need to continue the transition to a more climate-friendly society, we need to continue the investment in research, and we need to continue the development of employment and value creation in order to ensure the well-being and climate of the next generation. And besides, it's my opinion that everyone has a natural right to clean water.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2256	The representative Henriksen thought there was a lack of spark in the government. If there's one thing I disagree with him, it's probably that. Spark is at least a lot of it! Once again, we have a debate in Stortinget where most of the opposition is about how awfully sad and search everything is in this country. As former Minister of Agriculture and Food, I experienced as I traveled around the districts and around the country that there were wonderfully many wonderful people who believed in what they were doing, and who thought it was great and wonderful to be allowed to drive out in the districts. Fortunately, the Norwegian economy is doing well. The labour force is growing, the employment rate is increasing, and four out of five new employees are coming in the private sector. There have been 42 000 more employed in the private sector, where values are created. Many of these jobs belong in oil-related industries, and I will come back to this. Very many in Norway depend on the car to get to work, pick up and deliver in kindergarten and make purchases for themselves and the family. There is not every place where there is a well-functioning collective offer, nor is there anyone who has a working time that allows you to take advantage of it if it exists. I am therefore pleased that we have reduced the one-off fee by approximately NOK 40,000 on average. This means that several people have the opportunity to buy a new, safe and more environmentally friendly car. The CO 2 emissions of new cars are now on an average of approx. 60 grams, down from 123 grams in 2013. Lower charges work. Carrot is the answer, not the whip. The car charges are still too high in Norway. I will continue the fight to cut them further. The property tax is unsocial. It does not take into account income, indebtedness or living conditions. We know that Norwegian municipalities have a potential for efficiency that is quite large. When taxes on the ownership of dwellings on average do not exceed 1,6 pst. of the revenues of the municipalities, there should be plenty of room for cuts. I am pleased that the Progress Party has had an impact on lowering the property tax, first to 5 per million from 2020 and then to 4 per million in 2021. We still have a way to go, and it's no secret that the Progress Party wants to completely eliminate the property tax. When the bulk of the population has sent a clear message that we want lower property taxes for people, it is provocative to see that red-green local politicians, among other things. Oslo and Trondheim are countering Stortinget's intention by lowering the bottom line. This seems particularly incredible in Oslo, which would have gone with 2.7 billion. NOK in profit even without the property tax. By lowering the bottom deduction, you send the bill to those who have the least already. The bill is sent to families with young children in the establishment phase, disabled persons and pensioners. People's housing should be a home, not a treasure item. The Progress Party will continue to fight against this unsocial tax in the future. Lower taxes and taxes are not just about people being more likely to decide what they spend their money on. That is a point in itself, as tax relief helps to shift power from politicians and bureaucrats to the inhabitants. More and more politicians are calling for the shutting down of the oil industry, both employing about 200,000 people and providing huge revenues to the state. This is the money we spend on welfare. The only thing that's going to happen by shutting down the industry is mass unemployment and less well-being. But not enough, other and much less democratic countries than Norway will increase oil production, thus increasing world emissions. Is there really anyone here who thinks that Russia and Saudi Arabia will cut their oil production just because we do? Emissions from the industry in Norway are about half the global emissions from foreign petroleum activities. I would challenge those politicians who want to end the Norwegian oil adventure with the following questions: What so-called green jobs can ensure both the well-being in the short and long term in Norway and at the same time ensure that the world's total emissions go down? In particular, the centre party of all will cooperate with the batches that are going to shut down the oil industry. We know that many farms around the country are not sustainable in themselves per day, and those who run these are totally dependent on other incomes. There's good reason to assume that many of these take their income from the oil-related industry, which the red-greens are going to put down. It will lead to a collapse of District Norway. You can wonder if the Center Party now thinks it's okay that many of the smaller farms are laid down, and that those who have run family farms for generations are moving from these to the cities to go to Nav. Oil and gas activities in Norway are our main industries. To all those who now use a Facebook framework where it says ‘Stolen Oil Workers’ and to everyone else in the industry, I would like to say: you have my full support, and thank you for the important job you do.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2280	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2285	The representative spoke hotly about the time when he was Minister of Agriculture. It was also when he agreed to lay the groundwork for the matter we dealt with in our case concerning the closure of the fur industry. The Labour Party agreed with the Progress Party to control the closure of the industry, but one thing we fundamentally disagreed with the Progress Party is about how to treat people who have to bear the consequences of policies adopted in this Chamber. Since there has been a debate, including from representatives of the Progress Party, in the last few weeks, I wonder: can the representative Hoksrud, on behalf of this coalition, guarantee that no family will be able to suffer economic ruin as a result of an excessive compensation scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2292	Firstly, I want to say that this is important, and that those who are in the fur industry are people who are in a difficult situation. I do not intend to stand here and guarantee, but I expect that the representative from the Central Party, who agrees with the Progress Party in the first place, knows that this was not a matter for the Progress Party wanted to have a majority in favour. So when you make compromises to get to a government platform, you get some good things and some things you don't always agree with. For the Progress Party, this was not something we wanted, just as the Center Party did not want the industry to be shut down. But we have been busy – and the Progress Party is working inward for this – getting a very good order for those people who are now losing the opportunity to continue their fur farming.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2299	I represent the Workers' Party. I think the representative knows very well. But I wonder: when you go so high on the track – then you have to be able to call it crocodile tears when you go out and race against how these people are now being treated – you should also be able to stand up so that you actually get the political impact, and not just run around and tell us that this is cruel. Yeah, it's terrible that families are going to be ruined because of the policies we adopt here in Stortinget. I would like to ask again: what is the Progress Party now getting since we are re-addressing this matter? What will happen to measures that will ensure that we do not want to see these families ruined?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2309	I was so excited and assumed that it was the Center Party that I was just going on. That's how it happens sometimes. But the Labour Party has wanted this which the Progress Party did not want. We didn't want to shut down this industry, but we're busy finding good solutions, and we're working on that. I see that our business spokesperson is very concerned about ensuring that a good system is put in place that looks after those who have been operating within this industry in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2314	The representative Hoksrud was on the Health Committee about a year ago. Today, we could hear in a row that a fiscal spokesman in Right, Henrik Asheim, said that the reason the government had not spent 12 billion dollars. kr at the hospital, as one had promised in a election campaign, was that the government reached the goal of 9 billion. kr. Then the question is what the goal is, and whether the representative and the Progress Party agree on this. Because in Health Møre and Romesdal, the goal is at least to cut 85 million. kr annually. It has led to a decision to cut the anaesthetic preparedness in Kristiansund, one to merge bedposts in Molde and Ålesund, there have been proposals for a one-man ambulance in Geiranger – nothing less. So the question to the representative is whether the Progress Party accepts these cuts and whether he agrees with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2319	Thank you very much for your question. No amount has been set by the Party of Advances, as the representative refers to the Right. The Progress Party is committed to ensuring good health care for all our citizens throughout the country. That's why we're busy and working to strengthen health budgets to get a good hospital economy and good services. And the most important thing is actually to secure services for all the inhabitants. So it's funny that a party that's laid down more maternity wards and more maternity wards, now in opposition, suddenly wants to spend more money than they did when they put in position and shut down these services.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2326	It fits very well with the slightly jovial mood here. It is perhaps just this jovial and smiling, speedy representative who most easily markets the liberal ideas with highways, higher speed – preferably 110 km/h, 130 km/h – water scooters, snowmobiles, liberalised motorised outdoor and water traffic, etc. Has not the representative in any way considered that motorways over rail, high speed and thus high energy consumption are in conflict with two of the main challenges facing mankind and that have received each of its scientific panels in the UN Panel on Climate Change and the Natural Panel? Is this representative really not going to deal with these questions, but rather bet on still going on tune and running, with more speed and excitement for the few, and that everything is going to go on like before?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2331	It was wonderful that I now get to talk about transportation. We actually build the railroad at an enormous pace, far more than the red-greens did eight years ago and during the eight years they sat in government. And we build motorways at a much greater pace than they did – 75 pst. more for transportation, it's wonderful. And there's new technology. Over 50 pst. of all the cars sold in September were electric cars. It should really touch the representative Nävra to see that here you do things that take care of what he stands for, while at the same time taking care of what I am concerned about, namely road safety, ensuring safe, safe roads, ensuring that people arrive quickly and efficiently, that we have trains that go and come when they are going – not as it was in the eight years of a red-green government. Then there were lots of delays, lots of problems with the railroad. Now we have a fight, so it's 75 pst. more for transportation. That means that then the railway is going to go, and we get really good highways that are traffic-proof and good for people.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2336	Can I have five more lines? [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2341	There was the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2346	Here it was the hallelujah atmosphere. But I'm going to talk about something completely different, and that's how we shoot our democracy in the years we sit here, and maybe we should do it in other roles as well. Because what I have to remind myself about is how serious and meaningful it is, and how we do this. In Norway, we think of democracy as safe and well-defined by the principle of power-sharing, a responsible party system and a constructive and democratic civil society. I would like to underline the importance of the parties. The Parties shall ensure the quality assurance of their policies and candidates. Part of our mission is, of course, to promote our own parties, be tricked and sell messages in such a way that they go home. But we're going to be both statesmen and statesmen, and it's up to us to lead even if there's hops on the way -- serving leadership, well to notice, but equally full leadership. It has been a good tradition in Stortinget that major social changes that should last over time and not be swindled by it at all times, we solve through broad settlements – because it is in the best interests of the country and its inhabitants. Sometimes you have to sacrifice some party strategy, but it has been tradition to take one for yourself in such matters as pension settlements, tax settlements and predatory settlements, to mention some examples. The result is also best that way. In my field, for example, it should be. have been a broad agreement on both local and regional reform, at least among all those who thought that something should be done. I'm a little worried that that tradition of the country's best is becoming history. In any case, it seems to me that I am sad and not in line with the whole task we as members of the national parliament are set to shoot. I don't expect those who fight for revolution to see themselves earned with broad settlements, but I expect, for example. that the Workers' Party, as a responsible management party for many years, does not throw this method at the boat. I would also have expected the same thing from the Center Party – at least the Center Party we knew before, before the black and white paint strips replaced a nuanced palette. In politics, there are some issues that are more cross-border than others, and they are often irreversible and ethical. An example of this is the debate on active death aid, which more often and more often comes up here too. Last month, the Human-Ethical Federation called for a public inquiry into the issue. My party leader was quick to reject this. Instead of discussing whether doctors are going to help people take their own lives, we need to talk more about a worthy old age, and how we're going to ring about human dignity even when life is at its most difficult. We understand that a person with great pain and no prospect of recovery can think that it would have been liberating to get a syringe that set a dot. But as a society says yes to this, something changes dramatically in the view of human life and human dignity. A public investigation would soon be the first step towards legalising death aid. This is a choice of values of principle and social change, and we don't need such an investigation unless society has decided to open that lock. The Christian People's Party will fight against this with a clear voice. Opening up active death help will take our society in the wrong direction. If active death help is to be an offer from the health care system, it means that health professionals should consider when a life is no longer worth living and death aid can be granted. The question for the individual is fast: When is my life no longer valuable? The Christian People's Party does not want a society that distinguishes valuable lives from other lives. Human dignity is absolute. The issue with the children of mothers who have joined IS is such a value-based issue. It's complicated, but boiled down, in the view of the Christian People's Party, it's undoubtedly the ethical right thing to pick up the children, who still have Norwegian citizenship, home, together with the mothers, and punish the mothers in Norway. The last thing I want to say about is the proposition of withdrawal of citizenship. The Christian People's Party is pleased that there is a proper treatment, that children and grandchildren should not suffer from parental misconduct, and that legal certainty and the assessment of proportionality are well founded.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2376	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2381	The child poverty rate in Norway has increased every year since 2013. This applies both to young people in households with persistent low incomes and to young people in households with low incomes in the last year. At the same time, municipalities report that expenditure is increasing more than income, and that hard priorities and cutbacks have begun. With such assumptions, it is difficult to prioritize money for example. cheaper SFOs, increased sibling moderation, school food and cheaper leisure services — all of which are important municipal contributions to improve everyday life for families with the worst of advice. Does the Christian People’s Party share the concern that poor local economy is going beyond schemes that could have helped poor kids?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2386	The concerns are clear – everyone should have equal opportunities in our society. One sees quite clearly that in families where adults cannot go to work, the children suffer. It is therefore necessary to look at arrangements. To the local economy: it is clear – it is the same as the family economy – that it can be a limiting factor. Then you have to look at the whole thing. It is a matter of priority. The Christian People's Party will be a guarantor of prioritising money to those who need it the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2394	I hear that the representative Bransdal is talking about the important thing is to make sure that parents are working. The Labour Party fully agrees, it is the most important thing to do to help the poor, as well as to ensure that the local economy is good, so that municipalities can offer universal well-being to everyone. But the Christian People's Party in government has participated in a number of unsocial cuts, among others. in the AAP, which has not received more jobs, but has also transferred more to social assistance or disability. Nor is the local economy an exception. In many places in the country, for example: voluntary centres provide an important free space for children and young people – especially in the target group that we are talking about here. But now you get over 70 pst. by voluntary centres gradually less to route forward. Does the Christian People’s Party worry that this will affect children and young people in an already difficult situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2401	We politicians are in a situation where we make arrangements for those who don't have such high votes that they can shout for themselves. The representative draws up a number of arrangements that are clearly worrying and on which we, as politicians, should focus. The volunteers are one of them. There's a good offer. The subsidy has increased sharply in recent years. There is a great deal of consensus about having less earmarked grants. Now it's a transitional arrangement, and it's actually a priority out there. If there are poor or incorrect criteria in the case of volunteer centres, it has to be considered.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2406	There was such a good mood here, so I hope it's okay that I go on with some praise, since I'm an opposition politician. First of all, I would like to pay tribute to the representative Bransdal because she points to the great, beautiful and fine comparisons we have had in Norway. She reminds us of that. Then I'd like to commend the Christian People's Party that they've always been involved in a lot of the important similarities we've had in raising district policy. And last, but not least, I would like to commend the Christian People's Party for their clear determination today that they will not support the expert report that came, to put down two out of three District Courts. What, then, about the second expert report that has come this week, which is even more district hostile, that is, the one from the power tax committee, which will rage the economy of 157 power municipalities? What does the Christian People's Party and, not least, the representative, Mr Brandsdal, who is a municipal political spokesperson, and who has been rapporteur for 18 years, I think, in the municipality of Vennesla? It deserves praise, too. What do Bransdal and the Christian People's Party mean – will they not support that report either? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2415	The President reminds us once again that the time for the change in line is 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2420	First of all, I have to say it's an expert report. It's not the government's policy. It has to be discussed. The Christian People's Party has at an early stage been very clear and said that the report in its present form is not supported. Instead of looking at taking money from municipalities, the expert committee should have been interested in looking at what to do with the rent. So I'm optimistic about finding good solutions here.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2425	The representative Bransdal from the Christian People's Party tells us that she's concerned about democracy and the way it's under attack, and that we've done things in a way here in Norway that makes it weak. At the same time, the Christian People's Party is part of a government where questioning the religion of others has been given a great deal of space. The representative told me that she is happy with citizenship — that children who are now growing up in Norway are allowed to become Norwegians. But these children are still exposed to suspicious rhetoric from the government parties. Is the Christian People's Party comfortable with this?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2430	No one should be comfortable with this. The Christian People's Party is motivated by a policy in which all people are equally worthy. I think the whole government is behind that – with a policy where everyone should have equal opportunities, and no one should be suspicious of any criterion. So we can stand together in that fight.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2435	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2440	The last person who met on the Løvebåkken from my municipality was Peter Kjeldseth Moe. He left here for the last time in 1973. Over his years as a general election, he got involved in opening road links, airports and public institutions. There was a lot of string cutting, the country was to be built, districts were to be invested in. When I look back at my six years here at Stortinget, what are the marks of these years? Yes, firefighting and fighting against decommissioning and centralisation. For a period of time, a week has scarcely passed between opening local newspapers in my county and finding something new to lay down – traffic stations, rehabilitation institutions, emergency facilities or ambulance stations. This week, it is the right of way and the right to change the land in my municipality of residence that stands for fall, unless we in the opposition stop it. Some communities get everything at once. My district is one example, Sandness Lake is another example. Governments, consultants and expert selections defend this with technological development, urbanization, talk about birth defects and evaporation, about the movers that only go one way into cities, as if there were some nature. Yeah, there's a lot of people moving to and living in cities, and it's really great, not a bad word about asphalt and concrete or racquetballing about urbanists with electric bicycles. And that's what the other party can do. My point is this: it's not immoderate to want to live in the districts. What's immature is looking at communities and people who live there, as different. Now someone might say that I'm drifting and looking up strawmen, that there's no one who has said this, and there's no one who thinks so. Yes, but look at the argumentation only every time something is centralised in Norway. Then there are services in the districts that lack quality, competence and flexibility, it is not possible to recruit there, and the professional environment is not robust enough. This process of thinking must end. It's supposed to be people in this country, all over the country. It's supposed to be light in the houses. People have to get where they want, where they have their roots, where they see the potential for living good lives. It's about a quality we call freedom. Then the policy must follow up. Today's government has unfortunately failed fundamentally and opened the locks for centralisation. The Labour Party will clearly indicate that it is time to bet on the territory and show trust and respect for everyone who lives there. New Public Management, from top to bottom, and large-scale centralisation have not provided the population with a better supply. It's politics, it's a governance ideology that should be ironed out by all the parties. Should there be people in this country, in the whole country, there must also be services close where people live, equivalent services with full functions, and that must be work. I'm overconfident that the mover currents out of the cities would have been much bigger if only the policy had facilitated it. That's why we need to move the workplaces out of Oslo. We have to set up new ones outside the city. We must pursue an industrial policy for growth and development throughout the country, develop high-speed broadband, on which the Labour Party has proposed a stronger commitment than any other party. We need to invest more in decentralised education and strengthen opportunities to live in District Norway once one is out of the way, strengthen regional development tools for growth and development, ensure that the resources in the districts benefit the districts and provide value creation and jobs locally, whether it be power, fish, mineral, forest or agriculture. History of decentralised Norway is a success story. That's the sum of what we create in the whole country, which is the basis of our prosperity, of our well-being. A country with work and settlement throughout the country is the foundation of a strong community and of our common identity. The future wife locally makes Norway better national. For this reason, the Labour Party is both a party of cities and districts, for in generations, we have shown that Norway is the best closed when we stand together, city and country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2465	This year it's been fifty years since Neil Armstrong put a foot on the moon. Seven years earlier, President John F. Kennedy told them to go to the moon – not because it was easy, but because it was difficult. The United States was not to be part of the development, but to lead the development. It was the beginning of a technological development in which industrial enterprises and environments of competence were mobilised to contribute solutions that led to a small step for man and a great step for mankind. The representative Lightbakken called for a social plan for the green shift in his speech. When the red-greens launched their moon landing, a full-scale CO 2 cleaning plant in Mongstad, it recalled the social plan the Soviet Union had for manned travel to the moon. But, like the full-scale plant in Mongstad, that moon landing was not done either. Red-green societal plans neither provide a step forward for humanity nor the solution to the climate crisis – on the contrary. It was the competition to find the best solutions, independent of technology and political governance, which enabled the Americans to put the first man on the moon. Good interaction between the public and private sectors was effective. A moon rocket consisted of a total of 5.6 million parts — technology, components, systems — driven by space professionals through competitive deployment. Now we need the same competition between climate profitors. The earth boils, the Amazon burns, the oceans rise and species disappear. We don't have time or money for failed policy projects or community plans. But we need a new, big step for humanity. We as society must take that step together. We then need competition and interaction between the public and private sectors, and we need social partners to make robust social and political changes. It took more than forty years to build up the Norwegian oil industry, which over time has distorted its competence and production on the mainland towards the petroleum industry. We cannot use forty years to distort competence and production against the decarbonisation of the Norwegian economy. All those concerned with a sustainable future should therefore be equally concerned with better public organisation and resource use. We must both decoupling economic growth from emissions and decoupling welfare countries and the public sector from oil revenues. Because although we are able to replace all oil-related jobs with new value-creating jobs, there is currently no industry as profitable as the oil industry. It means a gap between income and expenditure, which means that without reforms of the public sector, the welfare state is not sustainable. The Norwegian political environment can no longer neglect political priorities or resist reforms. It concerns everything from rail reform, police reform and municipal reform to change the mechanisms of our welfare system. It's not social to keep or extend arrangements we don't see working or working against their purpose, which I'm going to get back to. I am genuinely concerned when I read in political comments that the government must calm down the reforms or hear political parties say that they are opposed or will reverse reforms and will no longer seek broad settlement. Now, more than ever, we need to make the Norwegian public sector less oil money dependent and the welfare state more sustainable. We owe this to the generations that come after us. The climate crisis must be a catalyst for necessary changes in the public sector. We can no longer lubricate dysfunctional structures with oil money, like paying $360 million. NOK this year to maintain 288 municipal chemistry offices that the tax haven says we don't need. Of course, we're going to have value creation across the country and jobs where people live, but we need a public sector organisation that promotes value creation, not inhibiting it. We need more reforms, not fewer. The transition must maintain the social sustainability of our society. Inclusion growth does not come about by itself, but needs to be facilitated by good regulation, a comprehensive tax system that does not polarise the economy, and a distribution that provides for a welfare country that both makes demands and also makes demands. Only in this way will we create opportunities for everyone and give children and young people back the future they feel we have stolen from them. The future is blue-green, not red-green. Then we have to stand in the reforms and the controversy these bring about. Because if the parties that make up the government today don't, then who will?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2497	The center party believes in Norway as a whole. It contrasts with the government's policy, which in the area by area centralizes Norway. When governments move public services away from communities and districts, opportunities for value creation and new jobs in business are also weakened. In Norway we have lived by using natural resources, in Norway we live by using natural resources, and in Norway we live by using natural resources in the future. Good communities in the whole country are an institution to be closed down with it. Then we can't do good services and get ready for something that only exists in the big cities. Before, the land was to be built. Now it's being built. The next few weeks, the elected voters will have their first municipal council meeting and county council meeting. It is of course good news that there will be a strong growth in the number of Centerpart representatives. Local government and county councils get central parties that are engaged in creating values and that will facilitate local business. Let them do it. And the Storting must give them the possibilities and means to play teams with their business. After hearing the debate so far, it seems that neither the Right Party nor the Progress Party have taken over the fact that the election expressed a revolt from the districts. Not just a small-town uprising, but a whole country-wide uprising against government centralisation policy. But we hear in today's debate that one is very happy with itself, and that makes me think, is it so that the government party thinks that there's something wrong with the voters, and not their own policies? The government likes to present itself as a businessman. Nevertheless, this government is imposing a ban on food in Norway for the first time. The calculation for this Decision is sent to the nearly 200 families that feed fur animals. State Council Bollestad has this summer had a proposal for a compensation scheme that is shamefully poor. People are being deprived of saved values. People want to be left with millions of debts. Earlier in the debate, the parliamentary leader of the Left described the compensation scheme as 'raus'. Let me give you an example: in Rogaland the farmer Bjørn Kjetil Frafjord drives mink. He's among the fur farmers who get the best out of the compensation scheme. The bear Kjetil Frafjord has a fur garden worth 7 million. kr. He'll get $3 million. kr in compensation – i.e. only a loss of 4 million. kr. These four million dollars are his contributions to the bill that the Right and Advance Party would bring with them the Left in government. The decision to shut down fur nutrition is previously referred to as a morning gift. It's a very important point with a morning gift that it's they who give morning gifts, who also pay for her. If this proposal for compensation is an expression of roughness, the government party really has a special view of roughness. Because what a driver does is not futility; it's cynicism, it's populism, and it's disclaimer. I have recorded that in the debate we are talking about the Central Party and fisheries policy. When we are now strongly strengthened both in North Norway and along the coast, we will focus on the fisheries policy of the Central Party, and we are some of the major lines of the fisheries policy. In the Central Party, we want a fisheries policy that benefits the whole coast. We want a varied fleet. Therefore, we say no to the structuring of the smallest boats. We want to make it easier for young people to start fishing. We say no to the government's proposal to introduce a government tax on our fisheries. We say no and we don't want to make the quotas almost forever. And we want a fisheries policy where values are going back along the coast, and where the goal is not to bring the most possible of the value creation into the Oslo treasury.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2516	There aren't so many of the real challenges of society the government can solve. On the other hand, they're very good at solving internal problems, preferably with taxpayers' money. They include: there is no problem in putting crisis losses and throwing billions at each other when cooperation is running out. It's the internal things that matter, the poor life of the government. Reality out there, which Prime Minister Solberg likes to call the rest of the world, means less and less. Out here, the world is this: the planet is facing a catastrophic climate crisis, and the differences are increasing. The blue-blue response increases the output and increases the difference. The consequences mark everyone out on the body – wilder weather, flooding, more damage, and the sea, the earth, the forest and all the industries that depend on our renewable resources are weakened. Increasing differences weaken the trust between people and destroy people's potential for a decent life, either as poor, sick or unfinished. There is an depletion of the basis for this nation. This setting does not make the job to be done; rather, it makes it harder to do the job. When the government doesn't reduce emissions, cutting in the next round will have to be even higher. For every day that goes with paralysis, the lag and the cost of society increases. In a few years' time, we have to act and take sudden, large cuts in a very short time, which will hit people, businesses and societies in unresponsive and very harmful ways. Besides trying to cover up, the action paralysis tries to create the reality out there that it isn't. In the class struggle on 19 August, Minister of Industry Torbjørn Røe Isaksen wrote: ‘ the arrows of the Norwegian industry point upwards. [[...]] And that while the green shift is going on." He's referring to numbers from the SSB. The problem is that, at best, the Minister of Industry has misinterpreted the number from the SSB. We checked with them directly. They show that the growth is mainly due to growth in oil and gas industries. Investment in power supplies shows a moderate decline, while industrial investment is estimated to remain unchanged. The good news of the Red Isaac was really bad news both for climate and for green shifts. This bluff that there is a green shift in the industry is repeated editorial in both today's business and class struggle. Developments make us more oil dependent, not less. It's an anti-green shift. Structural grips must be made if we are to reverse development. The climate crisis is a systemic crisis and must then be resolved. Structures that are currently undermining the work of a green shift must be turned into a part of the solution. We have to stop, on the one hand, using budget money on green measures that the tax system is undermining in the next round. These include: more profitable to invest in property than in green industry. We have to stop concluding trade agreements that undermine the climate targets, as the government did with the Mercosur agreement. Less rainforest undermines climate goals and indigenous peoples and will result in Norway having to cut even more, with the effects it has on society and nutrition. Such systems are also found in areas such as resource and monetary policies, infrastructure and distribution policies. These evil circles must be broken if we are to win in the fight against climate change and increase differences. SV is therefore taking the initiative to set up a green new deal commission today. The goal is to cut as much as we have to, that we create the new business that we need, while reducing the differences. We need a plane to cut around 60 pst. by 2030 and become fossil-free by 2040. We need a plan to turn investment, technology and expertise from oil, gas and property into green industry and industry. We need a plan to secure our renewable resources within the sea, soil, forest and power, in order to create food, material, medicine and energy. National control of the sea must then be ensured, the land must be put to use, forest and power must be used strategically and for service to the environment. We must have an active industrial policy where we dare to invest heavily and structurally in selected areas that can take over as drivers of the Norwegian economy, such as the bio-industry, hydrogen, carbon capture, maritime and digital industries. If we're going to do this, we're going to have to build a new infrastructure that's rigged for the zero-emission society. Finally, the fight against environmental damage does not have to become an engine itself for increased differences. Our history shows that in our best years we have our mark of small differences and strong well-being. This task hangs on the opposition, because if the opposition doesn't, there's actually no one there.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2540	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2545	The safety of the inhabitants is important. That's why, with the Right in government, we've strengthened the police by over three billion. kr to more than 1600 new policemen, safer cars and better equipment. On the side of this debate, SV has shown little commitment to the police, and it is reflected in their alternative budget, where they cut 80 million. kr. We don't have time to discuss all the S.B.C. cuts now, but one of them is for the representative to answer. The police are facing a changed and more difficult threat picture, and they need more safe cars and better equipment to deal with demanding situations on a mission. That's what the government is doing, while SV is proposing to cut massively, by 40 million. kr. Why does the representative and SV want to cut in completely necessary equipment and safe cars for the police?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2552	The detailed knowledge of the budget does not belong to me. But what I've done a lot of work is the government's object protection work. What the control committee revealed in that work was massive challenges for the police – the police are not rigged to take on the responsibility they are going to take in critical situations for the nation of Norway. We went into that work with goals of arming the police for that very task, in several rounds. Both in the previous boom period and in this round, the government party received massive criticism not to equip the police for the tasks facing us as a society. When we dealt with this in Stortinget, we also asked to give the government permission to bring that kind of money into the budget. It was too late, but it came a little in the last budget, as far as I can remember.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2557	I notice that the representative does not have an overview of the gross cuts in his own party's budget. We could have talked about object protection, which is under improvement. We could have talked about the police reform, which provides better investigation and police work on the ground, but also has challenges that need to be solved. We could have talked about how we with the Right in the government are strengthening the police budget by 3 billion. kr and more than 1600 new posts. But now we are talking about completely necessary equipment and cars, about the police's ability to react quickly and correctly and be safe under assignment. So I'm going to let the representative try again, pick it up from memory and give us a real answer as to why they think it's good to cut $40 million. kr in necessary equipment for the police.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2562	I can neither confirm nor deny whether this is the case. We may have budgeted in completely different ways than the representative here points out. But this kind of detailed knowledge cannot be expected by the representative to receive a response from a random representative from a completely different committee in a persuasion debate – it cannot. But what we can discuss is something I've been working on, object protection. The police were supposed to secure their installations, their objects, by 2015. In this field, the government promised that they had actually done this before the deadline, i.e. 2015. Then it turned out afterwards that it had actually not done – one was actually far behind when it was about securing its objects. And as far as I understand now, only half of the critical objects of the police themselves are secure. So I thought it was strange to get criticism from the government party, which itself is responsible for the lack of security work, when they get criticism from the opposition party that has pointed out these defects – systematically and over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2569	The representative has talked about increasing differences in his post, and it leads me into the zone management of the wolf. The management of the wolf zone means that a very small proportion of the population in Norway must take all the burden on them that a majority of the population in the Stortinget will have wolves in Norway. The wolf policy pursued today is the basis for a great deal of frustration and fragmentation. There is a basis for reduced biodiversity and loss of rights related to nutrition, hunting and outdoor life, and people feel unsafe in municipalities where wolves are burdened. In summer grazing animals have once again been taken by wolves on a large scale, even outside the wolf zone, and now the wolf has begun to loose on the wild train after the grazing animals have been taken down. Then my question to Knag Fylkesnes: Does SV think that such a distribution of the burden of having a wolf is fair?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2576	There's a lot of things you can say about the different predator zones, about what's wise. We have a predator deal in Norway today saying we're going to have predators in Norway. Then the natural consequence is that we're going to have a viable stock of predators. Then there must be somewhere in this country one should have these predators, because one cannot have predators under a viable level if one is to have predators in Norway. So the question is, where should one have them? We believe that in wolfesona one can have more animals and in other areas fewer animals. These are detailed questions that I believe neither the representative nor I can take on board. But the fact that a hunter, for example. on yews in the lowlands of the Austland where there are no sheep, is especially, because it leads to further burdens on taking predators out of other places.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2583	The Christian People's Party and SV have a lot of good policies in common, for example: solidarity with weak groups nationally and globally, a well-developed welfare country, a wide range of public services and social arrangements. However, it seems that SV believes that the state of Norway can enter the sunset almost literally with welfare schemes that will remain unchanged in the decades to come. But it is a fact that by 2040 there will be twice as many people over 80 years in Norway, almost 500,000 against 220,000 today. Does the representative Knag Fylkesnes think that our welfare systems today can be in the same form in 2040? If not – how does the representative see that we can adapt our welfare systems to manage the tasks that the state will have in 2040?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2588	Thank you for a good and comprehensive question, I'll say. We don't think it's the social idea in Norwegian politics to use the pause button for bad times. We think that thinking widely socially, having a society of small differences and strong well-being is one of the keys to getting through tough times. That's what our history has shown, that in our very best days as a nation, it's just a strong trade union movement, coordinated paychecks, compressing pay models and good welfare arrangements for all of us who have made it best possible through tough times. It ensures that people get to work easier, keep working, be treated well at work, etc. So to the government's strategy in this work: it seems to be that a cut in taxes to the richest in our society, and then put a burden on people who really need well-being, and at the same time increase the differences in society. We think it's a terrible strategy if the goal is to create a good society for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2598	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2603	A cage should be equally safe whether in Valdres, Porsgrund, Vadsø or Stord. For this reason, the Labour Party is working hard for people’s security in everyday life and for an offensive district policy – a policy in which police preparedness, ambulance preparedness and fire preparedness should be just as good for everyone, and where the tasks between them should be clearer and resources strengthened. It costs money and political will to control social development. People have to get the help they need when they need it. The local preparedness for people is unfortunately weak. The presence and the visible police are weak. In my county, Telemark, we have 34 fewer annual police work now than before the near-police reform. The agreement has been breached here in Stortinget. The Labour Party believes that the police districts must be strengthened. The right swing tried to give the impression here instead, doesn't match the reality that's out there at all. The investigation promise must be given full priority in a state of political reform. The Labour Party believes that one should respect the settlement concluded in the Stortinget and take decisions in the Stortinget. Unfortunately, we have a right-wing government that doesn't. There are alarming conditions in the police – without it being given easy space during the speech of the throne yesterday. We have been able to read that people in Telemark, Vestfold and Buskerud cannot expect to get through when they call the police emergency number, to so-called robust operating centres, as the Minister of Justice mentioned yesterday. Report after report has slaughtered the near-police reform, and then representatives from the right-wing party say that 90 pst. has been a success, that there's only a little bit left. This is not a threat. And when the parliamentary leader of the Progress Party, Limi, said earlier today that the police reform is only in the early stages, I wonder where he has been in the last, because the police reform is scheduled to be completed until next year. The opposition in Stortinget has had enough talk and government arrogance. For this reason, the Labour Party, SV and the Centre have sent a letter to the Minister of Justice asking him to come to the Stortinget as soon as possible to find out about the alarming situation in the police. If you're busy with people's proximity and access to justice and justice, you actually have to work for it. I think it's both old-fashioned and little creative to suggest mass court closure, as the Court Commission now does. In order to strengthen legal certainty in Norway, the Labour Party believes that one must first and foremost end up with the cut policy before the courts, and that one must look at weaknesses and correct them through more use of digitisation and strengthening. It must be possible both to modernise and develop the Norwegian judicial system without laying down two out of three courts in the country. It's a good tradition and a nice thing to make a big deal in Stortinget and find unity in major matters. For the Workers' Party, it has our animal-bought experience. We have not been able to trust that the right-wing government follows what we actually adopt, especially in connection with the near-police reform. We are now going to unfold the sleeves of the Workers' Party's stronger community policy, together with red-green friends here in the Storting. Already we see clear differences between the blocks. The Labour Party is a party for the city and the country. I'm proud of that. If we are to have a policy for the whole country, we need an offensive urban policy and an active district policy. We need industrial and climate policies. We need policies for job creation both in the cities and in the districts. Some people think one can cut it out one way or another. This is impossible. Urban and country policies, for the interests of workers and for the fight against increasing differences between people are the political heritage of the Labour Party, that is our foundation, and that is our future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2622	It's going well in the labour market. Enterprises need people, more people report on the labour market, and registered unemployment is at the lowest level of over 10 years. We see this all over the country. The number of persons employed has increased by over 50000 persons only in the last year and by a total of 115000 since the end of 2016. The employment rate, which has previously fallen year by year, is now rising year by year. In some sectors and areas, increased labour shortages are reported. This, together with good prospects for the Norwegian economy, makes it particularly important that we now use the good times to help more of those who are outside into the labour market. We have a number of tools that we now focus on for more unemployed people and people with disabilities to get to work. We know that lack of qualifications is often the reason you don't get a job. A large proportion of visitors to Nav only have primary schools as their highest education. We therefore intensify our efforts to ensure that more people get the skills they need to get a job. Through inclusion skills, the integration promise and new skills policies, the government will help more people get a regular job, including those with disabilities and gaps in the CV. Norwegian working life is mainly characterised by tidy conditions and a good working environment. Most people are permanently employed, and about three out of four work full-time. The government wants a full-time culture in the workplace and works to facilitate it. This is important in order for more people to be able to support themselves through their own incomes, in order to achieve greater equality in the labour market, but also in order to ensure the sustainability of welfare systems. The Government has strengthened the rules on the right of pre-emption of part-time employees. The vast majority of those working part-time in Norway do so on their own initiative, but involuntary part-time is a challenge for those affected, and most of them are women. In particular, involuntary part-time is a challenge in the healthcare sector. This is why we demand that regional health businesses develop a full-time culture and that as much as possible be added to permanent jobs. If we are to ensure that our children and grandchildren also have good welfare arrangements, we need to improve the sustainability of welfare systems. Increased sustainability is conditional on more people who can work, including jobs. At the same time, those who are unable to work must have a decent income to live on. Several evaluations have shown major weaknesses in our income protection systems. This primarily affects those for whom the arrangements are intended. The government has therefore made several adjustments to ensure tighter and earlier follow-up, to counteract passive social benefits and to improve the transition to work and activity. Activity obligations for young beneficiaries of social assistance were introduced in 2017. In the last two years, we have seen a decline in the number of young people receiving social assistance. It's positive. The old AAP scheme met criticism from almost all teams for both lack of follow-up and for poor results. Changes were made to make the scheme more workable and to ensure earlier clarification. In order to reduce sick leave and non-employment, the parties and the government have entered into a new intentional agreement on a more inclusive working life. The agreement now covers the entire life of the labour market and places great emphasis on the joint efforts of the parties at work. The effort shall focus on preventive work environment work against frequent and recurrent sick leave. As part of the new agreement, more new measures and instruments are now being implemented. Pension reform is a sustainability reform designed to contribute to a fairer distribution of burdens between generations. We therefore need to stick to the principles of the reform and not make changes that contribute to increasing pension expenditure, and thus to further increase the burden on our children and grandchildren. On a proposal from the government, the Stortinget has adopted a new occupational pension for public sector employees adapted precisely to the principles of the pension reform. The Government, together with the public sector parties, shall now adapt the pension rules for persons with special age limits to the new occupational pension. This work is now starting. But again – to finish where I started: things are going well in the Norwegian labour market now. More people get to work, fewer people are coming out, and we're going to continue with that effort.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2654	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2659	The proportion of people in work is low, vulnerable groups do not enter the labour market, and there are increasing numbers of young people. However, in the government's right, fiscal policy is used for two things: tax cuts have not been granted by the government itself to create new jobs, and incentives for industries that have a high use of rented foreign workers who are here for a short time. The growth in the proportion of people employed comes from non-residents who do not intend to stay here and who often work in sectors with poor conditions. This is even though we know that if the proportion of rented foreigners increases, as it does in some industries, productivity goes down. Otherwise, when neither the tax cuts of the Right nor the fiscal policies contribute to job creation, the welfare of the next generations will be affected. What's the government going to do with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2666	There were a lot of premises here that were completely wrong. I actually don't think any of them were correct. It's not like the proportion of people in work goes down. The share of people in work goes up, the employment rate goes up. The number of people at work is going up, the number of people at work is going down. Young Nav kids are going down, young people falling out of school are going down, the number of people getting a lesson is going up -- I don't think anything about that question and the premise was right. We even see that the seriousness of working life actually goes up, and the tendency to be out of competition by unprofessional actors is actually also falling. So everything goes very much the right way. But of course, we have some challenges that are important. We have to create more jobs, we need more legs to stand on. We need more legs than the oil sector to stand on, especially now that we are going to convert Norway, not least as a result of the green shift. We see that jobs are now being created across the country, business is flourishing around the country, and we should be happy about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2673	This government's mantra seems to be that the one who has a lot, will get more, and the one who has a little, will get even less. That's the same thing with the AAP. In the previous AAP convergence round, young people were also hit. Then it was cut in time from four to three years, it became harder to get, it became harder to extend, and it resulted in more social assistance. Also at that time it was said that closer follow-up would get more people working. Can I then get answers from the Council of State to: How many more young people got into work as a result of the contractions in the previous round? Based on the experience, how many believe the Council of State will get into work as a result of further cuts now?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2685	When I hear some of the feedback and comments on the changes made in welfare systems, I sometimes start to wonder if the representatives have read a single evaluation of the welfare systems and income security systems we have. The work-clearance system was subject to severe criticism from almost all teams, and it was evaluated not to work. Too many came into it, too few came out of it, and the follow-up to the scheme was too bad. Similarly, for the youth guarantees, none of them worked according to purpose either. It is obvious that when evaluation reports are obtained on income security schemes and other schemes to help people further, and the evaluations show that they are not working, we cannot, in fact, continue to do so. We made several changes to the AAP scheme, and that was precisely because we wanted to respond to the criticism that came from the evaluation. We believe that the constraints we've done are right. The evaluation is now in progress, and it is a little too early to say what the final results are. But I'm pretty sure what's done is going to get more people into work or ready for disability.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2692	Nav works very badly for our neighbors who need Nav's help. According to the Workers' Party's Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, the point with Nav was one door to employment services, social security offices and social work offices. Why? Well, because people were going to find out that the system was going to see the whole human being – the whole thing was the point. So what's the reality in municipalities and urban areas? The door to Nav is more closed. If the door is open, there are fewer people at the counter. Those who are there are not the most experienced, but many newly educated in the 20s. People receive notices in short phone calls to contact us here and there. Consequences: the mass of cases is often huge – I stress enormously – before a decision is taken after many months. My question is: does the Council of State agree that there is a need to make changes in line with the intention of one door to the Nav reform, where there should be much more experienced professionals at Nav in municipalities and urban areas – professionals who will take responsibility and have the power to make decisions on all issues that do not provide lasting benefits?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2701	There is no doubt that the Nav reform was a demanding reform. It was also rushed through at an excessive pace. It also warned Stortinget against the time when you actually rushed it through at the pace you did. But all in all, I want to say that the Nav reform was right, and I also believe that the results and the reform have a positive development. It can be seen that user satisfaction is actually increasing, both among users and among employers who are in contact with Nav. But still there are some challenges. There's no doubt about it. But I totally disagree with the description of reality that the representative Lundtigen has. The largest Nav office now, is nav.no. It is no longer like everyone wants to visit their physical office, you want to visit nav.no and do what you need to do via the sofa at home. The vast majority of those looking for Nav don't need much help. They may need to fill out a form and do not need contact with the supervisor.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2708	We have a fundamentally different reality understanding of how Nav works for the people who need it the most. This is one of the big problems of the Storting: if the different sense of reality is now allowed to continue, it becomes very serious for those of our fellow citizens who really need help. The Council of State repeatedly says that one should tighten up arrangements, one should save money, and then the mantra comes all the time: one should put in new measures to get them to work faster. New measures are to be put in place at all times. We who are around are experiencing that the measures that are being implemented are not working. When is the council then willing to put people into the first line, experienced people in the first line, give them authority, and give them economic means so they can solve their job?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2716	New measures are clearly necessary, because those looking for Nav now have different needs than they had in the past. We know that the majority of those looking for Nav, for example. has primary education as the highest level of education, and then it goes without saying that there are measures of competence and improvement of the ability to acquire skills that are absolutely necessary, one must be able to do the job. Similarly, wage subsidies – there is also a system that has been changed precisely because we see that it is among the most effective. In the case of several employees, I can congratulate the representative Lundtegen on the fact that there are actually more Nav employees now than there have been before – 500 more Nav employees. These include: the release of resources through digitisation. These are people who can work directly with the users of Nav. There is now a positive trend in the number of clients per case manager. There are half as many, if I remember correctly, clients per case handler now as just a few years ago. So there are several employees who also have fewer clients to work with, and that's positive, I think.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2725	In VG today we can read about cancer Ingrid of 23 years who, fortunately, now has been cancer-free, but she wears with great aftereffects after the disease. The newest cut of the government, which came today early, will frame such as Ingrid. Is it possible for the Council of State to imagine that it may be easier to get into work and have a positive development towards work if one has financial security, or is it such that the government is stuck in the idea of being pushed into work by cuts and poverty?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2730	Having an income insurance scheme while being ill is obviously one of the most important foundations of the welfare state. Ensuring income while on treatment is essential. The proposal we are going to promote for young people on the AAP is completely identical to what the Employment Committee and other professional environments have also recommended. What we're doing is reducing the benefit for young people, i.e. for them under 25, on the AAP, to the same level as for young people under 25 in the qualification programme and on the introduction scheme. So the level that SV thinks is good for the qualification programme and the introduction scheme should be fine. But I am also in favour of the redundancy scheme. In addition, what we're going to do is we're going to have to use heads for the same target group. We see that young people need much closer follow-up today. Of the young people who come into the redundancy scheme, 70 have pst. mental disorders. They need work and activity to get healthy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2739	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2744	In Syria, dozens of Northmen are trapped. The exact numbers are uncertain as they are referred to in the media. It's an extremely complicated situation. There is a situation that develops, which is unclear, and there is a lack of information — at least from open sources. We have a great deal of understanding of the commitment of the Norwegian children who are in Syria. We have reviewed the Green Party's proposal to bring the sick four-year-old and his family back to Norway, and we have come to the conclusion that we cannot support it. On the part of the Workers' Party, consideration for the children who have ended up in a situation they have not chosen for themselves has been very important. It was in ours, and it is now. That is why we supported the extraction of orphaned children who were in our home. There are some parents who have made their choices and put their children in an unsustainable situation. In that case, the Norwegian State should offer these parents an offer to bring the children home so that they can have a humanitarian situation and growing-up relationship that is worthy of a child. But let me be clear that the Workers' Party does not, on a general basis, want us to bring back adult citizens who have chosen to join the IS terrorist organisation – or, for that matter, other terrorist organisations. I would also warn against the fact that we in Stortinget are going to handle the situation of individuals. We don't have enough information. It will be able to make unforeseen precedents, and it breaks with the sharing of responsibilities between the legislator and the executive. In addition, the situation we have in Syria, not just affecting Norway, is similar in other countries as well. That's why we called for international solutions to be found in ours, and we're calling for it today. We took note of the Swedish initiative in ours, but we have to work for wider international solutions. It can, of course, include an international court — to the extent that it is possible to implement it. However, there may also be a basis for looking for multilateral agreements with Kurdish self-government authorities on how to address security needs – since it is not desirable to leave an enclave of abandoned persons with IS-related issues stuck in these areas – or to find other forms of international cooperation. In our proposal, we propose that the government take an initiative and are clear and proactive in order to achieve these kinds of international solutions. We still want to do that. When these children come home, you have to have a proper receiver. In this, I would like to stress the importance of involving, as far as possible, current caregivers in Norway who have some sort of connection with the children, and I would ask that the government also pay attention when these children come home. It is the government that is responsible for caring for the Norwegian citizens within the current legislation. Formerly this week, the representative of the magistrate and the newly elected vice president of the Stortinget, Abid Q. Raja, the government as the paralysed in the case in News 18. I would not, and certainly not Prime Minister Solberg, used exactly those words, but that this situation has not yet been resolved is obvious. That is why the Labour Party has tabled four proposals in this context today. Those proposals ask the Government to facilitate the transport of all children with Norwegian parents, home to Norway, with contributions from any family member, and to provide appropriate health care for the children immediately. In addition, we ask the government to come to the Stortinget to explain the situation in Syria, how we can take care of the North that is affected, and how criminal settlement with guilty IS members is intended to be implemented. It should be done in plenary, but it may also be appropriate for an explanation, for example. in the enlarged Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, as we open up in proposal No. Thirty-six. Overall, this will give Storting an opportunity to deal with this matter properly and in an informed way. That is why I hope that the majority can gather on this approach in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2767	I don't know how long you can wear dress jackets and heel shoes at work and still call yourself a youth salibi here at Stortinget, but the concerns of the younger generation are at least little doubt that I share. We are experiencing a crash of heavy trends at the same time — ageing wave, digitisation, political polarisation and climate crisis. The green shift will require us in this room to make bolder choices in the future. Yes, we're going to solve the climate crisis through international cooperation. And yes, we're going to use the expertise, the technology, and not least the revenue from the oil industry to develop new, green jobs. Just look at the aluminiumworks at Karmøy, the biogas plant at Skogn, or at the beginning of what can become a floating sea wind adventure thanks to the government’s commitment to Enova. But even though money and innovation can do a lot, we also have to be honest that this is a transformation we're all going to know about the body. For the first time in Norwegian climate policy history, all sectors have committed themselves to cutting emissions. No one gets away. I am so optimistic that I think we should do it – not by imposing a bad conscience on people or businesses, but by investing in human creativity and by pursuing a policy that makes even climate-sceptics look good at choosing environmentally friendly. In contrast to other parties, the Right knows that climate policy will never be sustainable if people end up falling outside society or if businesses are left with only red numbers. We know that the label ‘environmental party’ is of little value if you demonstrate against European energy cooperation the next day or against the exploitation of e.g. minerals we need for electric batteries and a large-scale electrification. I agree that we have to do more. There's no doubt about it. But those who are standing in this room and later like nothing happens, make a cheap political point that might be an advantage to their party, but it's not an advantage to the climate issue. You don’t have to travel around Norway much until you see that everything is related to everything. Climate policy is linked to industrial policy, school policy and, in particular, to employment. We're going to have a globe to live on, but we're also going to have something to live on. If we are to take Norway through a comprehensive green and digital transition, without family and community awareness of a fundamental insecurity, we need to ensure that the individual gets a foot within the labour market and, perhaps most importantly, keeps up with the labour market. It must be possible for people in employment to take shorter continuing training while paying mortgages, go to work and have a family. It is necessary to make it easier for companies to invest in the skills of their employees in order to implement new solutions. For the industrial worker who holds an old letter in his hand, it does not help politicians to stand on TV and say that he must work for at least 20 more years, if one does not simultaneously rig the education system or for example. The loan box so that he gets a clipping card to take more education along the way. When the government is about to reform its skills, this is about ensuring that individuals are able to contribute, be seen and feel safe in important communities, as in the workplace. When we see tens of thousands of children and young people demonstrating in the lawn outside the Storting, it strikes me that we're lucky to be inside, that Norwegian school has become better and better in the last ten years, that we've got wise young people who encourage adults to work. Norwegian students read better, they think better, and record many complete high school. It hasn't happened without a fight. While the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre are constantly taking orders to down-prioritize basic skills and remove transparency about results, the Right has been at the forefront of both the Teacher's Lift and the Knowledge Lift. At the same time, we know that school and society are not standing still. The promise of knowledge was introduced one year before Facebook. Now young people experience being bombarded with thousands of impressions from social media every single day. Our students must learn critical thinking and technology. They have to be able to immerse themselves, and they have to learn to learn. That's why maybe the most exciting project we're doing in Norwegian school now, changing all the curricula, so that the young people we have, learn the tools they need to solve our common challenges in a world that's changing faster and faster. I'm a contemplative monarch, and that's why I always think King Harald's speeches are very good. Yesterday was no exception.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2790	Yesterday, in the throne speech we were handed over, it is clear that security is an important goal of the government's work. Security creates freedom and room for expansion. Security creates confidence, and security is important for the individual population in this country. And yes, representative Wagslid, it shall be equally safe to be in a children's room in Valdres, in Stord, in Stavanger, and in Oslo. Norway is a safe country, but we now see that the world is changing, and crime is changing, and the police too must change. The police reform is an answer to the changed crime we see in Norway. In fact, police reform is about having the ability to adapt to a new reality. The Progress Party wants a modern, effective and responsible police force. We are proud that the government has made a historic promise to the Norwegian police, and we need to ensure an effective police force in the years to come. Police coverage has increased, and there have never been more police officers than now. The budgets have never been bigger. This year, it's been granted nearly 20 billion. To the police. That's an increase of over 4 billion. kr since the government joined. Of these, 3 billion is. kr on the police operating budget and there is a growth of 25 pst. since 2013. By 2020, the target of two police officers per thousand inhabitants is reached. Several have been involved in the police reform, or near-police reform, here today. I think it is important that we all take on board that this is a major and demanding reform. When you hear the criticism coming, a few impressions can be that we don't meet the same people or get the same posts when we're out talking to people in the police. Let me be quite clear that everything is not rosy, and also the Progress Party acknowledges that we have challenges. Nevertheless, it is not an option to reverse the reform. One of the challenges with the reform is that it's too late, and it should especially be the Central Party taking over. We must not forget why this reform was so important to get in place. Hearing the representatives Vedum and Vågslid talk about the fact that there are critical conditions in the police, alarming conditions in the police, becomes simply too simple and simply. The center part is somewhat similar to Ludvig in Flåklypa – ‘it is fali, it’. Changes and changes are scary. Then there's a crisis, and then you kind of have to sit still and don't do anything. There were many observations before this reform came into place: 104 000 cases were pending. The police crisis is affecting the investigation. The police don't reach their own goals. The police are slaughtering their own emergency response. The police are out of resources. 220 years of police work disappeared. China dreamed of police work – instead she sells kitchen equipment. Five hundred things on hold. It's a police crisis. There is a significant police crisis in this country. All this was before the police reform. When the world changes and crime changes, yes, the police also have to change. I'm incredibly happy that we've put this reform in place, and I haven't talked to a single one in the police who wants to go back to the way it was before. Do they have challenges? Yes. Do they need more money? Yes. This is exactly what the government is taking seriously. Even if the police reform is due to be completed by 2020, it is not said that we are done with everything. There still has to be more resources, we also have to have an eye on the police reform. And that's exactly what the Minister of Justice has so clearly said with the police report that is coming this fall. The government has strengthened the police, both with equipment and not least by not implementing the announced profit implementation. I am pleased, and hope, that the leakage that came in the election campaign that the police will get more resources, especially for investigation, will also come in next year's budget. We rely on the fact that the police have confidence in the population. Security for the individual, with whom I started, is important. But we politicians also have a responsibility to talk the police up and not down. There's an incredible amount of good work going on out there, and we have an amazing police force that ensures our everyday lives every day.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2811	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2816	We are going to release the good neighbour – that has been the goal of Norwegian criminal policy. But reality looks ugly. Psychiatric disease is isolated, put in belts and blocked inside concrete cells. Crime has been chronically underfunded by the many Justice Ministers from the Progress Party. Their answer is longer punishments and extended homes to use saliva on prisoners who are exaggerating. The Minister of Justice has closed Ulvsnesøy, which had the only open places for women in the West. Young people who commit violence have to go to prison for treatment. Justice policy has become anti-knowledge and populist in recent years. In the post-report report, heavy criticism comes, including on the lack of supervision. Norway wants to appear as a human rights nation, but what is the will to invest in reconciliation and rehabilitation, so that we can release the good neighbour and thus also reduce crime in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2823	Some of the first Progress Party took hold of the government, were the many who stood in line to enter and zone their punishments. That is why we got the agreement with the Netherlands, which has made it possible for the criminal services to rehabilitate the prisons we had. It has also caused us to bring down the reconciliation queues, something we should be very happy about. It didn't happen under the previous government. Then I'm fully aware that there are challenges with prisoners who also have a mental disorder. That is why I am pleased that both the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Health have intensified this work. Psychiatric patients in prison are entitled to exactly the same healthcare they would have had if they were outside the prison walls. Criminal custody has been strengthened during this government, but in the current year it is a little cut. We just have to be honest with that. Nevertheless, the focus will also be on the next few years.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2832	The question was about the quality for those who zone, and the result for those who come out. One chooses to lay down the only offer of open places for the few women who are in prison, and one talks about the fact that there are more people with mental disorders inside our prisons than outside. In fact, offers that look good on paper are about having leisure activities and no treatment, and that there is no contact between the health service and what is happening in criminal care. At the same time, the ABE reform has been continuously cutting down, so that there is less and less funding associated with it. The minister had earlier responsibility for children. What experience do you have of the offer you actually give to the weakest of the weakest, which make up a lot of them as sons today?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2842	The new prisons that we can get in place now will also help to provide a good offer for the prisoners. It is important, as the representative was in the room, that those who are in prison and don't pay their penalty also get an offer so that they come out as the good neighbor. We need to look at how we can intensify and strengthen the work of criminal services in providing an offer that makes you come out as the good neighbor. Although I am fully aware that Ulvsnessey has had good results, we cannot maintain prison places simply because they are good places – if that is not necessary, if we do not need so many open spaces. There has been an increase in prisoners who have longer sentences and are scheduled to sit in closed places. Then it's important that those prisons too are strengthened.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2849	The Court of Justice was given a mandate of 16 members, appointed by the Government in August 2017. Later, the government issued an additional mandate that the children's things of the district court should be gathered in a few dishes. Proposals for representation from smaller district and land change rights where management could have different opinions were rejected. On the other hand, the Director of the Court of Justice, Sven Marius Urke, was a member – the director who already two years ago told us that there should usually be only one district court and the director of each county, the director who has systematically passed the minor district courts and the land change rights in terms of staffing, management and modern equipment allocation, so that they are confused, the director, who is run by a board appointed by the government, the director who cannot run the court administration across the government's will. It is not surprising, therefore, that the court administration unanimously came up with a plan that destroys a 400 - year - old tradition. Is the Governing Body of the Progress Party supporting the government’s mandate, additional mandate and member that produces such a preliminary outcome?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2856	Now it is the case that the Storing Group does not enter into the mandate itself or the appointment made by those in the Commission. The Commission presented an interim report two days ago, and, as usual, the Centre Party goes on the track as high and dark and criticises it before sitting down and getting really involved in the proposals that came from the Commission. I am very pleased that the Minister of Justice has been very clear that the government is now going to take the time to review the proposals that lie there, and I have to say that there is enough part of the report that is also quivering a little in our ears. At the same time, we have to assume that most of us are not in a courtroom during life, and when we are there, we want to have those lawsuits and be sure that the legal certainty of the individual is respected. It's important to us when it comes to the courts.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2863	I understand that such a preliminary result is fine. My next question concerns police reform. A 50-page note has come from those who work in the police in the South East. It was handed over to the State Council this summer. It says that the police count what can be counted, but not what counts – very significant for development. Thirty cases with a known perpetrator are closed, the operating centres are not ready, and one operating centre in the south-east is becoming more expensive than four, as we had before. My question is, the spirit of the Advance Party was earlier to listen to people. Why does government participation detract from the good quality of the former Advancement Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2870	It was a question I could use more than a minute to answer. But let me go to the contents of the post, and it went to the south-east police district. I was concerned about developments in the South-East, and I am aware that the Minister of Justice too is. But when it comes to calling it a crisis across the police because there is one police district that is struggling: it is a large police district, it is a reform that is going to take place, and we have to go in and see why the South-East police district is not doing what many other police districts are doing, and get this reform up and running.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2875	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2880	The question is not whether Norway should have a strong climate policy, but what kind of climate policy works best, both for Norway and internationally. The centre party is concerned that we take responsibility for the development of climate-friendly industrial production and technology, show that a zero-emission transport sector is possible, produce environmentally friendly power, develop technologies to capture and store CO 2, and not least use the forest to produce climate-friendly substitutes for oil. At the same time, we must remember that settlement throughout the country is a prerequisite for using natural resources and succeeding in green conversion. Through a good climate policy, we need to use this transformation to strengthen production in mainland Norway, create green growth and a large number of new jobs across the country. We also need to work for a climate policy that provides efficient transport, food production and business development, and that provides the opportunity to live the good life of the whole country. Often when we discuss climate, many people's solution is protection. The centre party believes that an important part of the climate solution is to think about use and management rather than protection. The use of land, land and sea by humans is of great importance to the ability of these areas to store carbon. We therefore do not solve the climate problem just by cutting emissions. We also have to increase the absorption of carbon. Robbery on renewable natural resources reinforces this problem. The transformation that the world community must undergo must therefore also entail a new gift for the primary industries. As a country with large forest areas, Norway has a specific responsibility to ensure carbon absorption nationally. The recipe is to increase forest production, mowing when the forest is ripe, and planting new forests that take up carbon. At the same time, this provides the basis for increased value creation and new jobs in the forest industry. The centre party has today made proposals asking the government to put forward a plan to increase the long-term carbon uptake in Norwegian forest areas, which we hope more people in this room will choose to support. In the last year, several organisations and political parties have created different new concepts, such as ‘fly’ and ‘flesh’. I believe that this is an unfair and inefficient way of pursuing climate policy. We live in a country where food producers are among the world's most climate-friendly, with low climate emissions per unit produced. Long-term work on breeding, animal health and feeding has provided a forward-looking low-emission livestock holding. This work must be continued. In addition, it is necessary to test and research further on new possible measures, such as methane-retardant feed additives. Climate action to reduce food production or to make people feel ashamed when eating meat will only shift emissions and value creation to other countries through increased imports. Climate policy we are leading the way in the future must help to ensure the continued viability of Norwegian food production. Emissions from the biological processes cannot be treated as fossil contamination and shall not be subject to charging. Airframe is also a term that several people have used. At the same time, it is completely wrong in a long-term country like Norway to punish those living in parts of this country where they are totally dependent on air transport in order to arrive at it. Climate policy must be fair, both socially and geographically. It won't be if those who don't have access to climate-friendly solutions have to be burdened as much as those who actually have a real choice. There are differences, for example, between Finnmark and Oslo in that context. If you don't take it in, and adapt climate policy to it, you don't get the kind of digestion you need about the transition from fossil to green. In several parts of the country, we are totally dependent on flying, especially on the short-haul network. It is quite wrong that these should be punished for the green conversion. For this reason, the Centre Party has also made proposals today that we wish to renegotiate international civil aviation agreements so that international aviation can take its share of the climate obligations. Because it's actually a paradox that many of the long-range routes to other parts of the world are much cheaper than for example. travelling by plane from Vadsø to Tromsø.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2904	We live in a troubled world where international structures are weakened, where the role of human rights is weakened internationally, and where journalists are killed. We live in a time when "fake news" is growing, and social media and so-called media platforms take over where editor-driven media previously gave us all the information. We see that growth and prosperity require more international cooperation, more transparency and more respect for individuals, and we also see that all the major challenges we face, such as: in the field of environment and migration, must be resolved internationally. In Norway, we're lucky. We live in a country with both growth and a high level of prosperity. But we're also not unaffected by what's happening in the world around us. We also see that EEA resistance is increasing in elections here in Norway. We are a country that is going through a difficult transition by creating a new business life with new jobs and new climate-friendly solutions, and individuals need to change their patterns of action. Yes, it was clear from the previous article that we, as individuals, also have to change our patterns of action. The left is a socially liberal party, which went into this government because we wanted to make it greener, smoother and more liberal. Now we see that we're going to get a big raise within the green. 2.3 billion. This is not only a good climate issue, it is also an industrial option for Norway. In September of this year, more than half of the new car sales went to electric cars for the first time. We see that the consumption of fossil energy is falling in the country – yes, over 5 pst. decrease in the turnover of e.g. petrol and diesel for the first six months of this year. Next year, we're going to ban the use of disposable plastics, and we're going to see record air quality in our cities. We've had a massive collective effort over several years, which means that we've never had as many collective travellers as we have now, and in the United Nations the Prime Minister now announced that we're also increasing the CO 2 tax, which means we're getting some of the highest and most comprehensive CO 2 charges worldwide. The shift is sector by sector. We turn the transport around, we turn the business around, and we also have to turn our privacy around. Youth walks in our streets and demands solutions for the future, and it is our duty to give them an answer. The government also became more generous when the Left went in, because we get into a completely changed care, where the individual gets a much greater value, and where we help the poorest when the children in kindergarten who come from families with poor advice now get – 46 000 of them – free core time. Next year we'll start working on getting it cheaper on the SFO. We've gone to receive 3,000 quota refugees. It's three times more than the red-green government did. And it's not just that we're the largest per capita, we're also number. 5 in the world — by ‘small’ countries such as Australia, Canada, the United States and the United Kingdom. We also see that we have had important liberal issues, such as that we have now drastically reduced the use of smooth cells, that we have gained more power for the municipalities, and that we have managed to raise a liberal cultural policy that is about facilitating a media policy for a new time, where we ensure that the freedom of artists is lifted, where we spread power, and where we say that the basis of all cultural policy is about the right to speak, about the right of the Constitution to express itself, and where the state's task is to facilitate those opinions and the infrastructure of the opinions. But we've just started. It's a difficult transition Norway's going through. We're going to create jobs that we don't have the imagination today to see that we're going to have. We're going to create a business that can be climate friendly, and we're going to create transport solutions that make the fight not about being against international airlines, but that we're going to be first in the world with an aircraft network that actually goes on electricity.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2933	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2938	I thought I'd give the Minister of Culture the chance to talk a little bit more about culture. Last week Bodø was elected European Capital of Culture for 2024. There was great joy in both Bodø, Nordland and the whole of North Norway. Unfortunately, the council came out a little skeptical, at least in the way she was perceived, because she was not perceived as fully as enthusiastic as the inhabitants of North Norway. It was almost perceived that any grant from the state to such a project would be taken from other investments in North Norway. I understand that the Council of State really didn't mean it that way and I've gone a little back on it, but I have a question about something else from the Council of State's statements to the media. There she said something about it being easier to support something you have worked together about, than something that was just a project that someone else had been working on. I see it as an invitation, and the Minister of Culture wants to support this project. The question then arises: how will the Minister of Culture work with Bodø, Nordland and Nord-Norway to make this a real Arctic event in 2024?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2943	I started all my messages that day by congratulating Bodø. I want to do that today, too, and I hope the congratulations come through, sail if I also did it on every occasion I had then. It is fantastic work that they managed to get through that application. Now we have to sit down together to try to find a basis that makes this not just a Bodøs, but the entire cultural anniversary of Norway. That is why I have invited the rapporteur, sent a letter to the rapporteur, congratulated the rapporteur and said that the rapporteur would like to enter into dialogue with us as quickly as possible, but we have not yet dealt with any application in the ministry, and we have certain procedures, laws and rules from this Chamber to deal with. I welcome both the application and the fact that the rapporteur of the Labour Party from Bodø comes down to me and that we can talk about how we should make Bodø the whole country's cultural capital.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2949	Then I get to say a thousand thanks, both for the congratulations and for the answer. I had this week's joy of being in Rome at an arctic event, and I have to say there were very many who noticed how important it is to be a capital of culture. This is a decision that attracts a lot of attention, and I'm very glad that the Council of State is now expressing that she wants to support it, also in an active way, as I understand it. Once again, I will challenge the Council of State to say something more. Yes, we agree that there are procedures, laws and rules, but in politics it is also possible to be proactive, and then the question is: does the Council of State have any ideas about how we can make this not only a North Norwegian event, a national event, but also use it to raise some of the opportunities that exist in the north, in the Arctic, since this is the first European Capital of Culture located north of the Arctic Circle? What is the vision of the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2958	I think I fully agree with questions when I think the Arctic aspect is a great opportunity for Bodø, but it is a great opportunity for Norway too. We have had two cultural capitals before – Stavanger and Bergen. Both times it was the state that applied, and not the city. That's why we started at the opposite end of this process. Now I hope we connect. That's why I've taken the initiatives I've taken. What I think is important is that we manage to make this the region's cultural capital project, but also the country's cultural capital project. Then we have to work more together, and that's why I have invited to that collaboration before we get an application on the table. We need to ensure that there are ring-fences and that there is a cultural effort for Norway as a nation. Then we have to make sure that we have projects that are wide enough, which concern more people, that we have a common mission for how we are going to market this abroad, and that we have a common plan for how to raise Norwegian art through these projects. Then we have to work more together, and that's at least I'm willing to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2963	Already on the eve of the election, State Council Skei Grande stated that the great political struggle of our time stands between the prestigious liberal values, represented by the Left, and the increasing nationalism and populism. In that fight, the liberal parties are marching all over Europe – that is, the Council of State. But what Skei Grande forgot to mention is that those parties are not in government with the right-wing populist parties. The Norwegian Left does not advance in the fight against right-wing populism; the Left descends to the bottom with the Progress Party tied to the leg. The liberal party in Norway put the right populists in government, and they broke their promise not to go into government with them, with a party that spread conspiracy thinking and group thinking. I wonder what it's like with the State Council of Skei Grande when she meets her European colleagues. Is it hard to talk about who she's given power, when she's in those forums?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2972	No, we show that we're in and out to make changes. It is clear that this government became greener, more rustier and more social liberal because the Left entered it. I think SV has been sitting with this feeling once too – that one actually has to fight for things every day to get through, and that I use to say: if you always choose to vote on the knight with blankest armor, that means you vote on the knight who is never in battle. It is obvious that the Left must make a good effort to get to the green shift in the government – but we can do it. It is clear that the Left does not automatically allow us to accept 3 000 refugees in Norway and be the best country per capita and the fifth best country per capita at quota refugee reception – but we can do it. It is not obvious that the Left will get through a drug reform that really helps to lift the weakest – but we can do it. It is not obvious that our first priority to help children and young people in poor families, namely to give them free kindergarten and cheaper SFO, is to go through – but we can do it. You actually have to fight if you're going to get through something.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2979	There is one difference between SV's previous government participation and Left's current – that's exactly what I asked questions about now – because it's that SV has never been in government with right-wing populists, but that's what the Left is doing right now. My question to Skei Grande is: When the Left Party, which, according to the Council of State itself, is to be the foremost defender of the liberal values towards right-wing populism, first of all chooses to put right-wing populists into government and then then go into government and cooperate with them, then the Council of State, which is to defend these liberal values, believes that there might be a connection between the liberal parties out in Europe – who have shown propriety, defended against right-wing populism – and the liberal party in Norway, the Left, who chose to do the opposite, is going back? Does the Council of State see that context?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2992	It's probably like when the Left of the Election Night warned against the populist flows, it wasn't just about right-wing populism, it was also left-wing populism. If you've done the homework, it's clear that around Europe, it's like liberal parties cooperate both on the right and on the left. It is clear that we want a strengthened center, and it is quite clear that there is also a big difference when SV was in government, and when the Left is in government. I've been through all of Jens Stoltenberg's throne speeches. He barely mentions the environment. The languages of the throne that the King read yesterday begin with environmental challenges. There are other big differences: you talked about throwing out all the asylum children; almost everyone has been allowed to stay after we joined the government. You said that you would be able to achieve the objectives in as many other areas as you could not deliver on. We tripled the number of quota refugees compared to when SV was in government. We deliver politics, we have opportunities to show what is the difference -- what a liberal party is. I think politicians should be measured by what they get from politics, not what they say they should have done. It is clear that Jens Stoltenberg did less on the environment than Erna Solberg does.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e2997	It's a rather special reality description state council Skei Grande now shows up, but I still want to stick to the theme I'm asking about, right-wing populism in government. Then we can look at the consequences of politics, and not least the consequences of rhetoric, because what we've seen lately is that rhetoric and thoughtfulness that were previously not accepted have become increasingly normalized. I believe that an important part of it is civil cooperation in Norway, where we have a party like the Left, who sits in government and gives state council power to representatives of a party that uses terms such as ‘snickislamisation’. It contributes to conspiracy thinking, it contributes to group thinking, and it's serious. There are many who are concerned about the climate of debate in this country, and then I ask the Council of State: will the Skei Grande also take responsibility for having given power to people who spread that kind of thinking?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e3004	I also take a great deal of distance from using words like "snikislamization." That's why I've had an impact on the government to implement a separate action plan against Muslim hatred. That's what I've won through. It's important to be able to discuss this in the future. I am also concerned that rhetoric has consequences, but one thing I have noticed, for example. On the development of the Progress Party, is that before the Left sat in government, I stood in the place of the representative and asked every year Siv Jensen the question: Are there man-made climate change? So the Left went into government, and the Progress Party has said that there are man-made climate change. There has also been a political change in the Progress Party, a political change that we profit a lot from when we get to the offensive environmental policy we get.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e3009	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e3014	The working party is engaged in building strong communities, including internationally. Working for a better organised world remains in Norway's self-interest. This also applies to our relationship with international agreements and organisations that we need to strengthen today. Retiring or having those countries that are economically or militarily strong sorted out is not in Norway’s interest. A world of more unforeseeableness and increasing levels of conflict demands that we do not shake our fundamental interests and obligations. NATO and the EEA are carriers for Norway, but also a UN-led world order, defence of international law and that we stand up for the Paris Agreement, for the Iran Agreement and for the resolution of trade policy disagreements within the framework of the World Trade Organisation, are and become key elements of Norwegian foreign policy. In the autumn, Stortinget will deal with its own big message about Norway’s role in international cooperation, and I look forward to this discussion. It was a little remarkable post we got from the pulpit instead. First, the Minister of Culture takes a settlement with ‘fake news’, and then she talks about the need to stand up for the EEA Agreement. But it is the Minister of Culture who is spreading ‘fake news’ about the EEA Agreement. When she was asked about the relationship of the Workers' Party with the EEA Agreement just before the election, she said: I do not know what the Workers' Party is into, it is a scary development. It is not in Norway’s interest to spread ‘fake news’ about what the parties in this room think about the EEA Agreement. Then she'll be busy with these things, she might get fat for her own door first. It might also be interesting to see the count of how many times Jens Stoltenberg did not mention the environment in the throne, as the Minister of Culture was here instead. That's what she gets to count up during the evening, and then we get back to that discussion during the debate. The EEA Agreement is being discussed. It has also brought some challenges, particularly those related to the conditions of Norwegian working life, which it requires strong policy responses to address. The right-wing parliamentary leader spoke with the feeling of broad agreement on reforms and reconciliation in Norway. However, a prerequisite for wide-ranging support for reforms is not only for decisions to be taken, but also for follow-up. In fact, agreements must be respected. When we signed an agreement with the Right on Army and Home Protection for the period 2017-2020 in the late autumn of 2017 in the Workers' Party, we got an impact for new tanks and helicopters to the Army in the north. But this summer the Minister of Defense said that the agreement that was concluded with us is an old agreement, for the majority of the population – the party of progress, the Christian People’s Party, the Right and the Left – has later made other decisions. Then there will be no possibility of fighting vehicles for the Army or helicopters. A government that clearly ignores an agreement and concrete decisions made by the Stortinge for the period 2017-2020 does not promise either the governance of the country or the management of defence policy. The government may have more than enough to control itself and use money to mitigate internal conflicts. Next week, both proposals for the 2020 defence budget and the Chief of Defense's professional-military council will come. The government has changed slightly on the record of the defence budget to inflate the GDP share in defence, without increasing its defence capabilities. While the right-wing government does not go the wrong way to boast of its own defence policy, NATO’s latest figures show that Norway, under the Stoltenberg government in 2013, was in seventh place in NATO with respect to the share of defence expenditure in gross domestic product. But under the Right and Advance Party it has sunk from seventh to thirteenth place. When a new long-term plan comes to Stortinget, the Workers' Party will vote for what we are for and against what we are against. We are for new helicopters to the Army and against removing the helicopters that the Army has today. We are for tanks, we are to take care of the defence personnel and to make commuting more difficult. We are to build the Army and not to build it down into Inner Troms. We're for having enough people in Air Force, for strengthening the defense at sea and for removing the corvettes. We are in favour of a government that respects concluded agreements, and against ignoring decisions made in the Storting. And we are to seek broad agreement to help innocent children in the detention camp in Al-Hol and to give the Advance Party veto.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e3038	The world is facing a huge climate challenge. We're part of the problem, but also part of the solution. Technology, competence and internationally committed cooperation and leadership are what we need to make the necessary changes. Norway can do a lot at home, and there is a lot of positive happening. The government has set tough emission cut requirements in all sectors. Norwegian industry has reduced its emissions by 40 pst. Since 1990, while production has increased. In the transport sector, there is a green revolution because technology makes it possible. Increased mobility both can and must be combined with reduced emissions. Even if we do our part of the job, that's not enough. Climate challenges require international commitment cooperation. For this reason, it is good that Norway takes a driving role, for example: through the bet on the sea. It is an area where Norway has great competence and where we can create new green jobs while contributing to both lower emissions and cleaner seas. In defining today's policy solutions, it is important to have a long-term perspective – not just a few years, but a generation or two in time. We're going to build a sustainable welfare society. This means that we need to make sure that more jobs are created, that more people come to work, and that everyone is included. At the same time, this must be done in such a way that we can, with a good conscience, pass the staf stick on to the next generation. Economic, social and environmental sustainability must then be safeguarded. It is in this perspective that we must see the government's commitment to transport. The traffic budget has increased by 75 pst., and several important reforms have been carried out that will leave us more for every penny we spend on the road and the track. A good infrastructure is essential to ensure the competitiveness of business and is perhaps the most important instrument to ensure that we have strong value-creating regions, profitable jobs and housing throughout the country. That is also why we need to have a balanced development of the infrastructure. From a 10- to 15-year perspective, I am quite convinced that new technology will contribute to the significant reduction of emissions by all modes of transport, whether by car, rail, maritime or aviation. We can just see how fast it is with the phase-in of electric cars and electric ferries. A policy that makes the car the main enemy and deprioritises the development of roads, as the Swedish Environment Party and the Greens call for, will have no or very limited climate impact and will be devastating for mobility and value creation, especially in the districts. Green transport is about developing new and environmentally friendly technologies, while at the same time facilitating more people to use collectives, bicycles and times in their everyday journeys. That is why we are working on the collective promise of the times, and more and more trains, buses and lanes are taking place. A large part of the transport of passengers takes place in urban areas, and the aim is to maximise the use of such passenger transport by collective, bicycle and gangways to achieve the climate objectives, but also to build a good urban environment. That's why we build out intercity and facilitate the sustainable development of our largest cities. In the national transport plan, it is set at 66 billion. to measures to facilitate this development in nine selected urban areas. For the right, it is important to implement effective measures. It must be worthwhile to choose environmentally friendly and put low- and zero-emission technologies into use. Electric car policy is a good example of how, through political incentives, we have contributed to more people choosing a zero-emission vehicle. It is estimated that the sale of electric cars could be as much as about half of the new car sales this year. This shows that we are on the right track to achieve the goal that all new car sales of passenger cars will have zero emissions in 2025. Another example is our ferries. Over the next few years, as many as 70 ferries will have chargeable battery solutions. At the same time, we are also implementing a development project for the use of hydrogen in the maritime sector and on ferries. It is good for the environment, and it creates jobs in Norway. It has never been more exciting to work with transport policy than it is now. New technological solutions allow for a better offer to people and increased freedom of movement, while at the same time reducing emissions in the transport sector. There is reason to believe that technological developments are going to accelerate and that we are facing major changes in the transport sector. It is a challenge, but at the same time it is absolutely necessary to achieve the goal of sustainable mobility across the country. At the same time, it creates some opportunities that I am convinced that our business will use to create new, profitable and green jobs in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e3059	In recent months, a case has taken a lot of attention: the case of the women and men who have left Norway and joined one of the world's worst terrorist regimes, a terrorist army. These are women and men who have made conscious and poor choices to help and contribute to the persecution and killing of civil innocent people. Let me be the first to acknowledge that this matter is complicated and difficult, but the Storting must not make the matter more complicated than it is. A proposal has been made for the Stortinge to decide that this woman with children should be brought back to Norway. It's very problematic. This assembly is legislative and shall not deal with individual cases. It would be very problematic for the government if a majority decided to return an individual to Norway. It would give that person, with a large number in his back, a leeway to keep quiet, for example. uncontrollable demands – terriblely problematic and not at all for the best of the child. Norway has no obligation to recall persons abroad who have joined a terrorist army. Many have used an argument that we are obliged to pick up our own citizens and prosecute them in Norway. That's wrong. A well-recognized international principle is that crimes should be punished where the crime has been committed — and it is not in Norway. But this case is about something that makes it very difficult for everyone: the children. They're innocent, innocent victims of their parents' bad choices. Many suggest that there are more people who do not put the child's best first. The best thing for the child is not to be with people who make poor choices. The best thing for a child is to get help. We're talking about a family, about a mother who has a family on both the mother's and father's side in Norway who's said she's willing to take care of her if she needs it. The best thing for the children is to get the help that Norway provides, but the mother has refused all the help offered. The Progress Party has always said that we want to help the children, and we have also shown that by facilitating the return of five orphans. Also in this case, the Advance Party wants to help the children. Many have used the argument that Kurdish self-government authorities refuse to leave the child to Norwegian authorities, but it has now opened up Kurdish self-government authorities. Then we are left with a mother who refuses to receive the help that has been offered, and therefore the Advancement Party will immediately ask both the mother, the family and those who can influence to give the child the help that the child needs. Whether it is getting health care in the camp, getting health care in the neighbourhoods or being picked up in Norway, the Progress Party is open to it. But the Progress Party is not open to pick up IS members from Norway. It would potentially endanger Norwegian citizens to pick up potentially dangerous persons. We have a responsibility not to put Norwegian citizens in the dangerous position. When there are solutions that I believe a majority on the Biggest will be able to join, it's the only right way to go. In any case, the Progress Party will ask that we make sure that everything is done to help the child, that the best possible child is put in the driver’s seat, and that we also take into account the safety of Norwegian citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e3070	In the election campaign I was called up and got a question about windmills. More correctly, the question was, Are you in favour of or against windmills? I answered as true as it was, that I found it difficult to answer yes or no to it, that it was wise to build windmills somewhere and not to cheat to build elsewhere. I then got back in response that such a vague response was uninteresting to listen to. A few days later, I got a question about the North Norwegian Railway, and again the question was, are you in favour of or against building the North Norwegian Railway? I replied, as it was true, that for thirty years I have worked for higher railway appropriations, but I think it was a little complicated in a short telephone conversation to say yes or no to the construction of the North Norway Railway there and then, and that we should evaluate that in the national transport plan, as we do with other transportation projects. Again I got the answer that it was completely uninteresting, and that I had to answer yes or no. I believe these two examples – perhaps not the most important ones, but obviously very important to many – are indicative of how some of the political debate is currently. The shades are in many ways gone. The political debate is more acute than before. We can see what is happening in the United Kingdom now – a close, allied country. I have to say that I don't think it's very funny to look at the transfers from the House of Commons for the time being. I think it's sad, I think it's tragic. What has happened to the United Kingdom? What has happened to England, as Bjørge Lillelien during the 1981 football match called the ‘fighter’s birthplace’? Or, what really happens in the United States? I don't think it's going over the line to say that there's a toxic political climate in Washington for the time being, combined with a not quite steady president. These are very acute debates, and it's a climate that can't carry the United States and the world on. Youth rises, youth protests — and many protest that youth protests! I have the impression that almost everyone is protesting today. There are so many people who are angry about something. But that's not how we solve tomorrow's challenges. I have faith in democracy, I have faith in political work, I have faith that it is possible to work for good political solutions, where we weigh different considerations against each other, where we weigh for and against each other, and then we find good solutions. Not all questions can be answered with a quick yes or no. We can ask ourselves the question: are we debating here today and tomorrow, in the Norwegian throne debate, the big and important questions, the ones that matter out there? I've had the pleasure of visiting great places like Røst, Værøy, Havøysund and Honningsvåg for the past two weeks. It's going well in Norway, it's going well in most places, even in our districts, and that's how it should be. But at the same time, we have to take seriously the prediction that exists in some places. I even think we some places can talk about renunciation. There's a little too many people talking about us and them, there's a little too many people talking about us out here and those in Oslo. We know that the situation is not like that, but many people today feel that they are not being taken seriously. We're going to take that seriously. That is why we must continue to build the country, not dismantle our country. Therefore, we have to take care of the communities that exist, so cities and districts – and we who live a little between town and district – have to play along, build the country and build the team together. The challenge of our time is the climate challenge. Therefore, emissions need to be reduced, and therefore public transport needs to be strengthened and car traffic down to our cities. We must have an offensive policy for our cities, but we must also have an offensive policy for our districts and for those places that are a little town and a little district. It's not either–or, yes or no. We have to build town and country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e3089	This year, NATO celebrates 70 years. In April 1940 we made the painful experience that we had friends, but we had no allies. Since 1945, NATO has been the supporter of Norwegian security and defence policy, and since 1945, the Right Party and the Workers' Party have been united in defence and security policy. The sovereignty of the country and the security of the people have been best achieved in the Right and the Labour Party. Some say that it is the very nobility brand of Norwegian politics. Norway will continue to cooperate closely with our closest allies: the United States, Germany, France, the United Kingdom, the Nordic countries and the Baltic States. In NATO, the United States is committed to taking greater responsibility for our common security. It's not unreasonable. But something has also happened. The downward trend in the NATO defence budgets has been broken. Norway's defence budget has increased considerably since 2013, we actually have a whole 30 pst. in real growth. We are also moving smoothly and steadily towards this ever-recurring 2-percentage. The government has started building up the Defence through the current long-term plan. But the development of our national defence must take place within NATO's joint operational defence. Repatriation of defense is not done overnight. The first step has been to bring about the defence we have. The base wall was confused. And Norway is NATO in the north. There are tasks in the north that Norway has to perform on behalf of the NATO Alliance and not least on the basis of its own security needs. It's about having a real situational understanding, and it's about being able to secure the supply lines across the Atlantic in case there's a need for it. Therefore, the government has purchased new surveillance aircraft, new fighter aircraft, new submarines and, not least, doubled the budget of the Intelligence Service since 2013. But we have neither been able nor are going to be able to safeguard our defenses alone. In 2019, the security policy situation is very unclear, to put it that way. The Western relationship with Russia is strenuous, and we see a China with obvious global, economic, political and military interests. At such times, it is so important that we restrain the transatlantic bond and European cohesion, and not least that we here in the United Kingdom are holding on to the long line of security and defence policy and demonstrate the ability to make defence policy settlements, which have been achieved so many times before. The representative of Huitfeldt claimed that there was a breach, that the government parties had not complied with the settlement in the land authority proposition. That's not right. When we discussed the matter, the following decision was made: The government would come back with a case for Stortinget, where one would look at the possibility of leasing new tanks and maintaining a tank capacity. The government did. There was no possibility of leasing on the international market and there was a call for purchases for tanks from 2025. Huitfeldt said that helicopters and tanks had a positive impact. When it came to helicopters, the government was going to come back with a case to the Stortinget where you were going to find the right balance between Rygge and Bardufoss, and so did the government. The paradox is that if the Workers' Party had been genuinely concerned about this, the alternative budget would have included funds for the purchase of both tanks and helicopters — but no. It was promised in the summer of 2018 that in the coming state budget, new helicopters were to be purchased for 250 million. kr. There was no trace of such helicopter investment in the Workers' Party's alternative budget, and the only trace of tanks – yes, does Stortinget know what it was? That was 50 million. kr to a tank. It's going to hold half a tank.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e3104	After two years as a health politician at Stortinget, some people will probably see it as a bit presumptuous to make a diagnosis of the Norwegian health system — but still. The patient is a continuous patient in good health. We have built up an ingenious system of various forms of funding and are striving towards seamless transitions for the patient's migrations in the systems. The state has gradually assumed an increasing share of the responsibility for health care. The treatment apparatus has undergone a similar development. We're going straight ahead. We have received diagnostic standards, decision-making forums, checklists and required processes – insofar as hospitals and municipalities are able to follow them up. The ideological superstructure is the patient’s health service – an excellent headline – but, as I read it, it may as well act as an emphasis on the absence of healthcare for health professionals. And it could probably be doctors, nurses, health professionals, and not least administrative staff sometimes have the benefit of being reminded of. "The patient in the centre" we write into our programs, without blushing – also left. I have to ask myself, who else would be at the center of our health care system? No, says a friend of mine, a doctor in the 70s with long and broad experience, there must be a hit between the treatment and the treatment that needs to be put in the center. And I feel this as a much more offensive approach to health policy. We must pay greater attention to the patient meeting itself. As a patient, many experience not being listened to. Unfortunately, many feel that when a doctor stands there newly educated and with a diploma that is not yet pale – then the ears fall off! They stop hearing and trust their textbooks, teachers and forms more than patients. Then it has to be said: medicine is becoming increasingly complicated and specialized. Patients are becoming increasingly informed and demanding. The authority of the handlers is challenged. But the answer to this must never be to put systems, checklists and norms over man. Let me be specific: LAR, medically assisted rehabilitation, is a norm that is intended to provide the answer to an increasingly alarming need to remedy the situation of an increasing number of drug addicts. It is a standardised and strict regime in which, unlike other patient groups, the patient is offered a limited number of medicines to control his dependence. When patients are protesting about the offer, we have many examples that health professionals first and foremost experience it as a threat to the system, instead of engaging in dialogue with the addict and then offering a more adapted approach. For the Left, this is a major issue in the care of the drug, and I know that we have the Minister of Health with us in this. In this context, I have great expectations of the decriminalisation reform that will take shape in 2020. But I have a serious concern about this. It is a matter of not being provided with sufficient resources to implement this important health reform. The reform has almost unisonally been welcomed, but I am not sure that we have sufficiently taken on board the costs of transferring a large group of people from the justice sector to the health sector. In this question, the Left is going to act like the government's constant social liberal conscience. And we're going to make bad conscience good where there's a need for it. A political party has had great success in prompting the whole country to use – a slogan I can also confess to. For the Left, it is equally important to use the entire human being – not in the sense that man should be a means, but in order to stress that the patient meeting is about recognising and listening to the patient, to realize that the patient himself is the foremost resource in a treatment scheme. I think this should be repeated as often as possible as more and more people think that treatment can be done equally on Skype or mobile phone as in a meeting between treatment and treatment intensively. There is considerable disenchantment in primary health services vis-à-vis powerful health companies and medical professors. But the opposite is also true. Still, we hear stories about how patient safety fails when municipalities take over a treatment scheme established by specialist health services. We hear examples of how well-implemented procedures change or recommendations are not followed – completely without consulting the specialists. The keyword is more effective inter-sectoral interaction. I know this can be appropriate as the intrusion of the upcoming National Health and Sickness Plan – and I turn it up with this level of expectations!
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e3129	The climate crisis is the biggest crisis in the world, and mitigation measures are being discussed worldwide. We have to take our responsibility for succeeding in reducing emissions. Many are afraid of how climate change will affect their future lives. Those of us who are elected must take our responsibility for making decisions and budgets that we now grant, actually share in securing people's everyday lives in the future. We simply have to take the dishes after those who did not take the climate responsibility from the beginning when it comes to industrialization, because now the bill comes. People's perception of challenges and solutions is probably different. If you ask people in town or country, there's a difference in what you get to answer. The same applies between different industries, between public and private sectors and between generations. We must have great respect for that. Young people are afraid of their future. Workers, not least in the oil industry, are uncertain whether they have work to do in the future, and some are afraid that the greenest in politics will stop the world. But the world must not be stopped; it must go forward. We're going to work constructively, and we're going to achieve the goals through a good Norwegian hard work, with a policy that consists of the fairness test between carrots and whips. We have to step by step, and we have to do it together. We can think locally, but we should also act locally. For us job creation and climate policy go hand in hand. We will focus on new technologies and renewable solutions to create safe jobs, greener jobs across the country. And we're going to have a responsible natural and environmental policy based on the principle of sustainable development and precaution. Loss of nature is as serious a threat to our life base as climate change. But climate policy in the future requires that we set ambitious targets and have sectorial plans to achieve them, and we have expectations that the government's government budget for 2020 is a climate budget. Municipalities and counties have a key role to play in climate change work and many important means of reducing emissions. In its role as owner, as a service provider and as a driver, municipalities can make a significant contribution to reducing emissions, and there are many newly elected local politicians who can now use their purchasing power to address this issue in the future. In my home country, More and Romesdal, the county has, among other things, preceded and made good use of the tendering procedures for ferries. Tove-Lise Torve, a newly elected county rapporteur, has brought the environmental and climate action into the negotiating political platform that is now in place. That's offensive, and that's right. As citizens, we need to be clear on our own consumer power, and the Workers' Party will make it easier for people to make the climate-friendly choices. Our climate test is now that we have ten years to act before we have a limit that is important to relate to. Therefore, we will facilitate continued activity and value creation in the petroleum industry, and the expertise we have there is crucial to be involved in and develop new green industries in the future, such as carbon capture and storage, hydrogen saturation and sea wind. On land, it is now frustrating that the landfill solution for hazardous waste is being drawn out on time. The government does not even agree with itself and has recently appointed a selection to work on this. While the Council of State from the Left – before he became the Council of State – thought that it should not be added to Brevik, Listhaug went into the election campaign and said that it should not be in Nesset, and it is these two alternatives that are left by the government. Then I wonder where it is going to happen, because the Lang Island is being filled up, and it's urgent. Here we need to get a clarification – and maybe no more samples. Furthermore, it is felt that a new circular economy policy is being developed, which is incredibly important. We're hanging out. And we noticed that the government couldn't get what went on the CO 2 fund, but that there was a slightly worse solution for the Enova investment in order to bring down the emissions of the food transport. Finally, I would like to say that our feedback on what the power tax committee presented this week is that it is important to contribute to and to be clear that one should still have part of the value creation back locally when one actually uses the natural resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e3155	Expectation of a disabled child may lead to uncertainty among the prospective parents. Will society provide enough support? Will the child be included in kindergarten and school? Will it be met with prejudices? Several parents of children in need of complex services tell them that they have to fight the system. Some people feel that they don't get enough help. Others feel like a burden. Some people simply wear themselves out. We don't want it like that! In Norwegian society, we're going to need everyone. Everyone must be able to live independent and free lives and be able to participate in all areas of society. This is the basis of a democratic society. It's about getting their human rights fulfilled. It's about equality and the ability to live full lives. The government has started work on a new reform. There will be no reform break, because now there will be an equidistant reform. It shall make everyday life easier for families to have or have children in need of complex services. This applies to children born in need of complex services and to children in need of sickness or accident. We want parents to spend their time just being parents, not being an administrator in the child's life. So we want parents who are waiting for children in need of complex services to have a statutory right to the coordinator already during pregnancy. The coordinator shall, inter alia: helping to ensure family access to various assistance services. We will simplify the documentation requirements for various aids to avoid unnecessary evidence in chronic or congenital conditions. These are just a few examples of what the Equal Opportunities Reform is all about. Much has been done in recent years to enable people with disabilities to participate and contribute in a similar way to others. The government has rights-based user-driven personal assistance, we have strengthened the right to care pay, and through the inclusion duty, we are actively working to give more people the opportunity to participate in the labour market. Nevertheless, we know that families with large care tasks face more and more challenges when they seek help. Through the Equal Opportunities Reform, the government is now responding to these challenges. We will ensure that families with children in need of complex services receive coherent and good services. They will be allowed to and have the opportunity to be the head of their own lives. They must be able to have a meaningful everyday life, whether it is a parent, a child or a sibling. And not least, they are to be taken care of and included as relatives. We know many of these challenges – they've been said from a long time ago – but we don't all know. We're sure there's a lot of people who have good ideas about what's going on in order to succeed in this work. When we make this reform, we're going to listen to them: families who have children in need of complex services, children themselves, user organisations, healthcare, Nav, the municipalities and the others who are trying to help today, but where we see that we're not getting it all the way. We are to conduct dialogue conferences throughout the country. We want a society for all – a society in which everyone, regardless of the level of function, will have the opportunity to live an independent life and participate in society. We want families to meet a society that raises them, not weigh them down. Simultaneous reform is a very important step on the way to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e3178	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e3183	On 25 September, the county doctor in Finnmark and Troms Health Nord called for an emergency meeting on the air ambulance following several concerns, both from the Finnmark Medical Association, from the flight attendants on board the aircraft and from responsible medical personnel at different locations in Finnmark. Three months after the new operator has taken over this critically important service, regularity and preparedness are not as they should be. Repeatedly, the Council of State has been challenged on this service and assured the Storting that the service will be in full operation and that the preparedness will be good. What does the Minister of Health think today, after all these warnings, and when you still don't have a stable service?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e3190	Firstly, it is important for this service to be able to meet the needs of patients and users. As far as I am aware, the reduced capacity has not contributed to patients not having their tasks solved. Part of the assignments, e.g. relocation mission, has been given longer waiting time. The capacity in August and September has been about 90 pst. of what has been agreed upon. In addition, an additional aeroplane is also installed. We are not satisfied with the readiness that has been delivered. We expect the supplier to solve the challenges that have arisen. We see that they're working on this. Part of the challenges, including: one of the major technical challenges facing the aeroplane has now been resolved, and it will hopefully also improve its capacity in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e3197	The requirement for availability in the new contract is 100 p.m., but of course with opportunities for a few hours of notice, so that you get down to the 90s. For July, the operator himself says that there were 69 p.m., where the contracting entity has had to provide compensation measures. I get worried when the health minister breathes because this has not led to any bad patient stories – so far. However, East-Finland medical personnel clearly voice frustration at the lack of information systems. They don't know where to get information, nor do they have an information obligation from the operator, but they get a status from day to day on expired aeroplanes. Getting up in the morning and being responsible for the patients in their area and suddenly seeing that a plane is not available, can't be good. What does the Council of State think about that?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e3205	The warnings are taken in the greatest seriousness, not only by the county of Troms and Finnmark, but also by Health Nord, the health regions and LAT HF. They're going to be followed up; I'm sure. Then I have also from today on asked that the status in this area be reported to me daily, according to the same regime that we had in July, for all the way to follow on – from day to day – what is the situation. That there was reduced capacity in July, was expected, because it was not possible to achieve the smooth transition that was desired between old and new operators. Therefore, additional measures were also planned in due time to compensate for the failure of the supplier to deliver full capacity in July. These additional measures, including: With the defence helicopters, fortunately worked to the benefit of patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e3214	The ambulance service and basic preparedness are threatened under this government. Critical bidding processes and raw cutting proposals create insecurity for both the car, boat and air ambulance. The BILAMbulance Service has been developed in the last ten years from a pure transport service to become an important part of the acute medical chain. I understand the rage over the proposal from Health Møre and Romesdal to establish a one-man ambulance in Geiranger, and the ambulance worker who said to the NRK that it is like going 20 years back in time. My question is whether the Council of State will be thought of as the Minister of Health who has allowed the establishment of one-man ambulances, thus terminating the ambulance service as we know it today, or whether he will be thought of as the Minister of Health who seized and secured a development of the ambulance service throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e3223	Yes, we have taken action to develop the ambulance service throughout the country, but not just the ambulance service, including the overall preparedness. Therefore, the contract we now have on air ambulance services means a higher standby than the one we previously had, for example. with a new jet plane on Gardermoen, which we have not had before and which is important for the overall national standby. The representative’s description of the development of the ambulance service is very correct. It has been strengthened year after year. There has been a higher level of competence. There have been several cars. Some of the factors contributing to higher skills include: that the representative often criticises as centralisation, namely having a larger professional environment, with highly professional ambulance staff with many tasks. The representative’s proposal to regulate response time and thus to force it through a situation would probably involve a greater need for a man’s ambulance in Norway to meet that target requirement.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e3232	Yesterday it was said by the government that in the forthcoming health and health plan, a ‘parties’ would replace ‘partners’ with ‘partners’ in the interaction between the state and the municipality. But there's little reason to believe it when we see what's happening on the North Sea and in Kristiansund. There is a complete conflict between the Council of State of Höie and all nine rapporteurs on North Moravia. And it spreads to Sunnmore. The rapporteurs cannot accept the financial constraints. Professionals respond to the professional weakening of offers. The consequence is that the desire to work is weakened, and the management of health businesses is even more difficult to exercise their leadership because they have the rapporteurs and the elected representatives much against them. Therefore, a change is needed, trust is needed, and this can be done by selecting the public representatives of the health business by and among the members of the county board and thus also by future county elections. My question is: will the Council of State support such a change, so that in practice one can achieve interaction between enterprises and municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e3239	I fully agree with the representative that there is a need for a significant improvement in the interaction between hospitals and the municipalities. That is also why in the census we have just announced important changes to the next national health and morbidity plan, which should ensure this. The prescription of the centre lot in this area will lead to the opposite. Unfortunately, we have a lot of experience with this from the time when the county councils were responsible for the hospitals. This was when the major centralisation took place when it came to food supply in Norway. There was a continuous game between the county council and Stortinget about who was responsible for the hospitals, and no one took full responsibility. The model of the centre party will be even worse than the old model, because there you will put a government council in charge of the Stortinget for the hospitals, while at the same time placing county representatives in the boards who are responsible for their voters – a total responsibility powdering that will only strengthen the black player game.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e3246	It would have been a great advantage if the council read what the Center Party writes, and listened to what I am now saying. The centre party has no proposal for hospitals to return to county municipalities. The State shall remain the owner. However, those responsible for the will of the Grand Duchy and the Council of State in the undertaking shall be chosen by and among the members of the county. Thus they must operate within the decision of the Storting, while at the same time implementing the will of the people. Thus, a few responsible directors will be able to interact with the leaders responsible for the municipalities. That's the proposal, and that's what the Council of States is now rejecting without even listening to and thinking about what the proposal of the Central Party is.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e3251	I have been very thoroughly involved in the proposal of the Centre Party. The representative would also have brought it if he had heard after my reply, for that was exactly the proposal I described. A completely unsustainable consequence of the proposal of the Centre Party is that they will have elected representatives in the boards who will be given the impression of representing their voters, while at the same time being responsible for a policy defined in the Storting and by a Council of State that is likely to represent in many cases a lot different from that for which they have been elected. A total powdering of responsibilities, a blackmail about who is actually in charge of political responsibility, is the consequence of the proposal of the Centre Party. That's what I said in my previous answer, and that's what I'm saying in this answer. I have been thoroughly involved in the proposal of the Centre Party, and that is worse than what was done in the past, as the county councils were responsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e3258	Good health services for people with drug problems have been important for SV. That is why we have been concerned with integrated after-sales protection, and that is why we proposed it together with the rest of the opposition and adopted several measures, which the Council of State probably remembers. But Decision No. 842 from June 2018, which asks the government to ensure that the specialist health service establishes several decentralised offers in cooperation with the municipalities, has not been followed up, even though the government itself wrote in the government budget that this request decision should be followed up by the 2019 mission documents to regional health companies. Then I wonder, is it that the Council of State does not take the decision of the Storting seriously, or can he here and now guarantee that this will be followed up in 2020?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e3263	I do not agree that this has not been followed up, because this is entirely in line with government policy. We want and have established several decentralised offers in cooperation with the municipalities. This is why we are developing offers of FACT and ACT teams, so that specialist health professionals work together with local community professionals in teams around those users who have the biggest and most complex needs. What's really nice to say is that this gives very good results. We see that it improves the state of health, it contributes to greater participation in work and activity, it increases living capacity, and it leads to less forced use. This is a future way of solving the problems that we naturally want to continue to develop.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e3270	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e3275	In political life, three weeks can be an eternity, while political memory can be similarly short. But I will be very surprised if members of the government parties have not brought with them the quite clear election results both in Helgeland and in Nordland, even in a whole part of the country. The voters have spoken, and they do not want the centralizing policy of the government. On 26 June, the Board of Directors of the North University chose to close the Nesna campus and the training of nurses in Lake Sandness. This aroused violent reactions on Helgeland, but with some amazing bundled ladies at the head, the People's Action for Higher Education on Helgeland was against all odds of turning teacher training and nurse training into a national matter in the election campaign. The background to our presence today is the structural reform of higher education – a reform of the then Minister of Knowledge Torbjørn Røe Isaksen and his State Secretary repeatedly proclaimed that he should contribute to the stronger trade union environment and stronger places of study. All parts of the new, merged university were to pass, it was even to become stronger and more significant in the region. We were to get development, not liquidation. So here we are three years later with a closure decision that will rage a community, and that will reinforce the trend in a region that is already struggling to get hold of qualified teachers and nurses. The same minister who said at the time that there would be a stronger environment must probably take on enormous means of conversion. For 101 years, Nesna has trained thousands of teachers — and eventually kindergarten teachers — in the region. A strong trade union environment is being built to solve the mission, and the state has recently made large investments in construction and infrastructure tailored for this particular purpose. It is not possible to move this professional environment out of the region or, for that matter, elsewhere in the region. The business environment will be confused, and the socio-economic losses will become formidable. The consequences for Nesna will be impossible to bear, both for the municipality and for the many affected. Then it is no wonder that many people say that they feel cheated – who believed in the beautiful words of a strengthened regional significance. Even in government parties, many people say that they feel cheated. The Vice-Chairman of the Christian People's Party, Ingelin Noresjö, has repeatedly said that. Mr. Stortingsretten Dagfinn Henrik Olsen told the NRK before the summer that he was cursed by the decision, and even asked the Council of State to reverse the decision and remove the board of directors. Parliamentary representative Hanne Dyveke Søttar has said that the report, which formed the basis for the decision on closure, is not worth the paper it is written on. It should not be possible for the national State, under the autonomy of universities, to leave to the board of directors to take state decisions that could frustrate local communities and weaken regions. Now on Monday, the Education Committee had a hearing on SV's proposal to stop the closure in Nesna and Lake Sandness. The local representatives used their short speaking time very well. The public reaction, the students and the employees made it clear to all of us in the committee that high-quality and good-quality education is being provided. I started my article by saying that three weeks is a long time in politics. It is now good and a good four weeks for the Education Committee to give its opinion on the SV's proposal to stop the closure. On behalf of all the striped ladies, future generations that deserve well-educated teachers and nurses, and a united Helgeland generation I warn the coast of battle, and that the next four weeks will feel like an eternity for today's government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e3301	I thought I'd start from the throne as it was held here in the hall, for in it said the king on behalf of the government: ‘The government will maintain a society with small differences and trust between people’. That's a sentence we in the Workers' Party very much agree with. Not least in the current series of Gerhardsen for the time being, we can see that there has been much of the purpose of our whole operation – not just before the war, but not least with good results after the war. That's why we disagree so much with some of the decisions taken on the basis of the government's proposals. It is true that the richest in Norway have much better economies due to tax havens. It is also a reality – and it showed a case we had here in Stortinget, via the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs – that government leaders have received strong wage increases, and that directors of state companies have been greatly increased in remuneration – many of them 20-40 pst. We see that the government's executives are taking off. The result is what we now see: that the differences in who has wealth in this country are increasing, and the differences in wages are increasing. They do because ordinary people don't get such benefits. On the contrary, if one gets up every day, travels to work and depends on the car to get there, one has to pay more in tax – because deductions for commuters who do nothing wrong than to set up work every day are to be reduced. Or what if you're unlucky and you have to end around the age of 60 and get an end-of-life allowance? Well, it's now going to be taxed. In the same way, it is in the case of wages and salaries. Take outsourcing, for example: by the cleaners of the Defence: it is to push down the salaries while at the same time increasing the salaries of managers. We see that social dumping is pushing down the wage levels of common trade unions. We can also look at policy decisions relating to life expectancy adjustment, which the government will now eliminate, that pensioners have received under-regulated pensions in relation to price increases. With regard to those who are dependent on redundancy benefits, we have heard today that it is proposed to cut the level of young AAP recipients. Or what about saying no to the pension from the first crown — the only logical consequence of a pension reform that we originally agreed on, but that is now rejected by the government? It also wears on trust, which Sverre Myrli had in a very good way. Reforms are referred to as reforms, for example: The ABE reform, which is really a clean cut. Police reform is among those who are affected by it. We've been talking to the police district downstairs, which told us just how many million dollars they've got more from the state budgets, and that's often mentioned by the government parties. But what the government parties don't mention is that they've gotten more cut because of the so-called ABE reform. So net they've got less money, but it's produced as a reinforcement. It's no wonder people feel cheated. Nor is it when one does not stand by the looting game comparisons made in the Storting, or when we see that what is referred to as the near-police reform actually leads to much more police removal. Then it is that many people feel cheated, and they feel overwhelmed. I would like to say the same about the discussion about tolls that were in the election campaign. One might think what one wants about toll lists, but I think we should respect that someone feels that it might start to be a little expensive to get to work every day – and at least let them believe it without gloating over that they are not more concerned with world peace than they are. Then we have on the other hand those who ridicule the youthful, strong environmental exposure. Yes, with the conflicts that arise, with the increased differences and with the wide differences that gradually grow from city to country and between districts, and that, among other things. The election result is an example of, I would say, unfortunately, in the time I have followed Norwegian policy, I have never experienced less confidence among the population than we have now, and it threatens the Norwegian model.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e3321	We live in a time of great international unrest. Brexit, commercial bluffs and protest elections characterize the political picture. We see increasing protectionism and nationalism. We see the great democracies struggling, and it may seem that people's confidence in politicians and in the public institutions is weakened. It's a disturbing development, and it's naive of us to think that this won't affect us here at home. That is why we need politicians who see the importance of international engagement and cooperation across borders, who see how crucial the EEA Agreement is for Norwegian jobs throughout the country, and who understand why protectionism is a very bad idea, especially for a country like Norway. The EEA Agreement is important for Norwegian jobs. All 80 pst. exports from Norway to the EU, and it is precisely the EEA Agreement that ensures a level playing field for Norwegian companies on our most important market. When things go as well at home as they do, it's easy to forget how dependent we are on trade and international cooperation. Because it's actually going well in the whole country. We have strong economic growth, we have the lowest unemployment rate in ten years, more jobs are created – only in the last year has 58 000 new jobs been created, most in private business. This would not have been possible without international cooperation, for which the Right is a guarantor. But even though the arrows are pointing in the right direction now, we know that we have great challenges ahead of us. We know that we get older, and we know that there are fewer and fewer employees per pensioner. We know we're getting lower revenues from oil and gas, and we're going to solve the climate challenges. Then we have to make sure that we have a variety of businesses across the country that contribute value creation, jobs and tax revenue, because it is private business that pays for our common well-being in the future. The world is changing. So is Norway. Change happens, whether we like it or not. Some jobs will disappear, new jobs will come. People move into cities. The municipalities experience that it is becoming increasingly demanding to provide good services to their citizens. We have to adapt the map to the terrain. That is why we have implemented some reforms. We need larger municipalities to provide good services to all the inhabitants of the country and to maintain the population in the districts, and we need a police service that is accessible to people throughout the country. I understand that it is demanding. The few like changes, but it's about being prepared for what's coming. It is said that there will be strong back to carry good days. Now it's going well, and that's now we have to make the necessary changes. It's not all as popular to do, but it's right. And we have to do it now to make sure that we can deliver equally good services to the country's inhabitants in the future as well. Usually, this type of major reform would be something of which there was a cross-political consensus in Stortinget. It is therefore a pity to see that the Workers' Party is turning its cape after the wind. This country had needed a Workers' Party who acted as a responsible governing party, and who had strong enough back to stand in the storm. We're facing another big challenge that really overshadows everything else if we can't solve it, and that's the climate challenge. In this area, too, it is a question of drying up demanding measures today, on behalf of future generations. We have to do it because that's right. We're a rich country, and we're going to take on the leadership sweater. We're going to take our share of the responsibility for getting the emissions down. We're going to have fossil energy out of the transport sector. We need to invest in green technology. We have now set up a binding agreement for all sectors. Everyone has to cut. There is a lot going on, but we still need to develop new and better policies in this area, because we need to move on. But no matter how nice we are here at home in Norway, we lose this fight if we don't have the rest of the world with us. We need binding international agreements, and here the European Union is our most important player. I am concerned that so many parties on the left do not see how important cooperation with the EU is to address precisely the climate challenges. We are facing many challenges in the years to come. I think we are well equipped to solve them, but it requires us to carry out the necessary reforms. The public sector needs to change. We need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and we need a strong private business to finance these projects and our common well-being in the future. Both climate challenges and jobs across the country depend entirely on international trade and cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e3351	We live in a safe and good country that goes well. The total number of unemployed is 2.2 pst, which is lower than when we took over the red-green parts. And evolution has been positive across the country. Norway is doing well — both in central and districts. Behind us is a long municipal and county election fight. New elected and new constellations will give new policies more places in the country. Following the local debate has been fine, as the local elected representatives seem to be better at focusing on their own policies rather than blackmailing everything and everyone than the representatives of this house seem to be. We're going to get municipalities that introduce property taxes or increase them, but we're also going to get municipalities that reduce it or liquidate it. This is how local democracy works. For the Progress Party, the fight against property taxes has been central and will continue. For the Progress Party, your house is a home and not a tax item for late municipal politicians. For this reason, the Progress Party has achieved a positive impact on the reduction of the maximum property tax rate from 7 to 5 per million from next year. And from 2021 it has to be lowered to 4 per million. We need a great deal of respect for taxpayers' money, which we are set to manage. The economy of municipalities is better than it is for a long time. By the end of 2013, 46 municipalities in Norway were on the ROBEK list. As of now, only 10 municipalities are on this list. While the number of full-time peasants under red-green rule sank by nearly 50 pst., the number under this government has increased by nearly 5 pst. In our government period, there have been averages of eleven small cross-country schools this year. Under the red-green government, the number was more than twice as high each year. There were twice as many hospital emergencies and three times as many maternity wards under the red-green regime as under this government. We believe in Norway, and we take care of the whole country with the means we have at national level, while at the same time constantly working against the opposition's fad in order to govern the municipalities with bans, injunctions, norms and earmarks. The election campaign has shown us that the municipalities are very different, and they will continue to be. Our country also needs a sustainable immigration policy. Our immigration policy is based on facts – not feelings and assumptions. The costs of immigration and an increasing proportion of older people put the Norwegian welfare model to the test. It is important to pursue an asylum policy that keeps the number of asylum seekers without a need for protection as low as possible in order to use the resources of asylum seekers with protection needs and quota refugees. It is now assumed that nearly 70 million people are fleeing. I have visited refugees in camps both in Jordan and in Lebanon. These are people who live years and years in poor conditions and almost without hope for a future. They own nothing and therefore do not have the same opportunity to pay for a trip to Europe. After talking to several of these people who lived like that, it became even more important for me to get into a policy that stops those who have the means to pay human traffickers large amounts of money to get to Norway. They steal resources from those who have the least, or replace the space for those who need it the most. I have no understanding of those who have such warm concern for those who have paid themselves to Norway and cheated on their stay and citizenship, when I know who pays the price for such a thing to happen. In government, the Progress Party has achieved a stronger asylum and immigration policy. It has contributed to the lowest asylum flow in 20 years, and we have provided for the forced return of over 41,000 illegal immigrants. But we also need to be drivers to find good solutions for the world's refugees, both through assistance in the neighbourhoods and by accepting quota refugees. High levels of immigration also contribute to increased inequality. While only 5.7 pst. of children without a migrant background belonged to a household with persistent low income in 2017, this proportion was almost seven times that of immigrant children. The government has taken a number of steps in terms of both requirements for municipalities, quality requirements and requirements for individuals. If our new countrymen are to feel at home in our country, they need to become part of it through language and self-sufficiency. Here we both have to and we're going to get even better. At the same time, the fight against social control, child-breeding, sexual mutilation and coercion must never rest.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e3387	The Court Commission proposes to cut two thirds of Norway’s property rights and land change rights. Even when the government ordered the report, it was clear that they would reduce the number of courts in Norway. There was a clear lead in the Commission's mandate. The previous Minister of Justice of the Progressive Party has said in Stortinget that the courts must be brought together. Right-wing justice figures have also been crystal clear that there will be closures, and we now see that the Commission has delivered a report in line with the government's order. The Central Party has over time been critical of concrete aspects of the economy of the courts, of the decisions of the Court of Justice and of the composition and mandate of the Court of Justice. In his speech to the Stortinget at the opening, the president said among other things: the need to respect their political opponents. With that in mind, I think it is rather daunting to see how representatives of the government parties meet us in such an important debate as the structure of the third state power. On the New Day 18 Tuesday, the courts were up for discussion. There, Minister of Justice Jøran Kallmyr did not at any time try to answer my arguments, but went right to accuse me of conspiracy theories. I think it is quite inconsequential that the country's chief justice policy leader makes himself accuse a parliamentarian of conspiracy theories, instead of meeting me with factual arguments. In the spring, the sour writer in Romesdal was accused by the Right of exactly the same thing, after he had pronounced himself in the nation on 14 May about his experience of budget cuts over several years facilitating the merging of courts. In my opinion, ruling techniques such as this debate are going down to a level of well-being – or rather, it is squeezing. I would like to ask the Prime Minister: does the Prime Minister think that this is a good way of acting in public terms for some of the country's leading politicians? If you disagree, you should come up with counter-arguments. Still no one from the Right or the Advance Party has tried to defend why the mandate of the Government provided clear guidance on the centralisation of the courts; why the Court of Justice Commission lacks representation from the districts and courts in difficulty; why it was so important to speed up a structural report until 1 October of this year, one year before the Commission has investigated matters such as tasks, digitisation and independence; why the report comes two weeks after the localisation and just in time to make drastic changes before the decision to collapse in 2021; why the government has for many years cut the economy of the courts, through the reform of the ABE, and put the courts in a very difficult economic situation; why involuntary changes in the structure of the courts have been made in parallel with the structural work carried out by this independent Commission; and Why only the very largest courts are allowed to be fully digitised. That the Center Party is working against centralization, has not been removed from the loose air. I note that one of the main priorities of the census is to implement the police reform. It is a police reform that has received massive criticism of removing the police from people and weakening local preparedness. The government is also planning a structural reform of the criminal justice system and, at the top of it all, has now received a proposal on the massive abolition of courts. As Dagbladet very strikingly wrote in the leadership position today: ‘The cuts proposed in the main proceedings will centralise the entire legal infrastructure, not just the courts.’ And on the other hand, ‘The problem is that the Commission has begun at the wrong end. It should have as its primary objective to determine how we should strengthen and develop the rule of law and the judicial system.’ In the autumn, the Stortinget shall consider proposals from the Centre Party to postpone the structural reform in the courts in relation to matters for which tasks, digitisation and independence have been investigated. The centre party believes that solutions other than government centralisation are needed to create developments throughout Norway. In the courts, we could, for example, began by ending the economic starvation, by strengthening smaller courts by appointing judges instead of proxy holders, by re-training judges, or by completing all courts, not only the twelve largest, in order to mention something concrete. We in the Center Party are going to continue the fight against centralization, and I hope we can face the new big year in a factual and constructive way, where arguments are met with respect and counter-arguments, not with ruling techniques.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e3445	I'm so proud to represent a party that's always on the side of the children and the families. For a very long time, the Christian People's Party has stood alone to have a family policy, but in recent years more parties have also come into the field. That's all right, because the families deserve a strong focus. Nevertheless, the parties obviously have quite different views of the family, and they have different approaches. Yes, there is almost an ideological struggle with regard to families, and there is a great pressure on the state to take over more and more of the family's tasks. Where other parties want their family policies to help achieve different goals – price-worthy goals in themselves, whether it be equality, integration or a strengthened line of work – we say: the families first. None of these considerations should be considered by families. The Christian People's Party sees the family as a goal in itself, and we want a family policy on the premises of the family. The system has to adapt to the family, not vice versa. If you think about it, the family of most of us is the first and the most long relationship we have. For us in the Christian People's Party, this is where the community begins, not in the welfare state. If we create strong families that take responsibility for each other, we create secure growth conditions and a warmer society. The key to building strong families is freedom of choice, the recognition that families are different. Parents know their children and their circumstances best, and they know exactly what it takes to get their everyday life to jump in a good way. Because that's what family life is all about for most of us: good working days along with the crowd we're all, the most happy of all. Then it's our job as politicians to provide the solutions that guarantee the freedom of choice and flexibility they need. Right there you have the core of our family policy. The Christian People's Party wants to strengthen the families, not rule them. That's why we're really proud of our family policy achievements. Child protection has been very quiet since 1996. We've increased it, and it's going to increase further for the youngest children. For many years, parents have been nervous that the cash support they had planned to use to be a little longer at home with the one-year-old would disappear. We've secured it. We've increased the one-time benefit considerably, so that it's not just those who have planned everything and who meet the activity requirements of parental leave, who can see their way to putting children into the world. We're going to provide cheaper SFOs for those who need it the most, and we're going to introduce a leisure card for all children and young people between the ages of 6 and 18, because when we know how important it is for children and young people to participate in leisure activities in order to experience togetherness and mastering, we have to make sure that absolutely everyone can participate. And not enough with that: this fall the families of children also see the results of one of the most important Christian People's Party victories, namely more teachers and more adults in kindergarten. In the Granavolden platform: ‘Family policy shall support family life and allow families to organise their own lives. There should be serious arguments when politics interferes with the freedom of families to control their own lives." These lines, this perspective is the actual KrF factor in the government's family policy. It is not the family that should support the policy, it is the policy that should support the family. When someone wants to take responsibility and duties from the family and put more and more of them into school and kindergarten, when someone wants to put leisure activities into school and take it from volunteering, where families have an important role, and over in public, when someone wants to remove the cash support and put economic pressure on grandchildren to make them choose in a special way, yes, when some politicians also talk about parents who want to spend a little more time with their children while they are young, and so use their power to put a huge social pressure on parents – then the Christian People's Party will always stand on the side of families and stand up for freedom of choice. We'll give them confidence and talk them and family life up every time we get the chance. The Christian People's Party will strengthen the families, not govern them.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e3461	Three years after the fall in oil prices is much normalized in the Norwegian economy. That's good. But then we should have had more people working. An employment share of 68 p.m. The Labour Party does not think it is good enough. We need to have higher ambitions. Hundreds of thousands of people are in line for a job. Then we need to help create even more jobs. In order to make the Norwegian economy less oil dependent, we need to focus more on business conversion – in a green and more climate-friendly time. Because we know that when business needs to be relocated and we need more work, workers need to be entitled to fill their skills. Those who fall out of work need more and more help to get back into work. The cuts in social security schemes such as redundancy benefits are not a contribution to people’s ability to work. What surprises me in the debate we have had here today, where the employment rate has sometimes been the theme, is that the most forward looking thing I've seen from the right here, is the representative Nilsen's knee-bow on the speaker's chair. This means that the government parties settle down with an employment share of 68 pst.? No, Norway's better off. When employment is too low, when more groups do not enter the labour market and we see interest rising, which means that demand for goods and services is lower, then the oil money must be spent on what works. We get the answer on Monday. In the census there were few warnings about a new give to get more people working. The government continues to rest on the table. But it is a virtue that the government itself does not set up. We have seen a new example today. Young people on redundancy pay who need help to get well and get to work will get cut off. The Community must make more representations to them. But what the government is proposing is to cut into what they have to live for, before they get help from the community. This is how differences are increasing in Norway. The government continues its policy of motivating those with little and little challenges in life, while the rich will be motivated by more. If we're going to get more people to work, we're going to have to do a much bigger job for the business community. It is then clear that the government has doubts about its own policy. In the summer, a sample was set up to see if there is any link between tax letters and the emergence of new jobs — a context in which the government has never been able to prove. What we are absolutely sure of is that the policy helps to increase the differences between people. Although the Norwegian economy is doing better, people do not live their lives in national statistics. Among other things, in my home country, we see dangerous signs. One of Norway’s strongest industrial environments, the cluster at Raufoss, reports downgrading. Moelven put down a great deal of work, and Hydro warns that many people lose their jobs. This is serious, because if Norway is to succeed in the transition, we need more jobs, not fewer jobs. Industry has major ring-fences in local communities throughout the country, including in many other industries. Nearly one out of four dollars from domestic service production is demanded by industry. Industry is driving forward the innovation of technology, not only in industry, but also in society. We've seen that, for example. in Raufoss, where they contribute to the improvement of the effectiveness of hospitals. Industry also provides us with large export revenues that ensure well-being, revenues that become more important and more important as oil becomes less dominant in the Norwegian economy. Industry is also crucial in order to cope with the great challenge of our time – the climate. That is why we need a different economic governance in a troubled international economy — and an active industrial policy in which the state takes greater responsibility for securing future-oriented jobs and industry. Not least, we must have real ambitions for employment here in the country. People need it, and Norway needs it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e3484	There are many things that have gone in the right direction since the Right came into government: children learn more in school, absenteeism goes down, waiting times in healthcare have been reduced, unemployment is the lowest in many years, the number of homeless people is record low, and the number of traffic budgets has increased. But in the years to come, we're going to meet some tough trends: Oil and gas revenues are going to go down. The labour market will change in the face of digitisation and automation. The climate is going to change dramatically. We're getting older, and the number of people who work per pensioner is going to fall. These are the challenges that the elected representatives have to take seriously. I'm glad that Right does. We should not change for the sake of change, but when the world changes, politics must also change. If we are to preserve Norway as a society with little differences and high trust between people, we need to change. Then we need some reforms. But in the debate on what to do, we often meet an opposition that either wings or wants to close our eyes and say no. Let me give you a concrete example: in some municipalities, there will be as many pensioners as working people in a few years' time. Several municipalities are unable to provide their citizens with a good service, including: because they do not have a strong enough professional environment. That's why we see that it's been right to make changes to the municipal structure. In many places we already see good effects of it. In the new Inner Eastfold municipality we already see that 40 fewer annual works are planned in the administration. That means 40 more years' worth of service to people. Of course, they should be given to the entire municipality – where people live. Earlier in this debate, we have heard several representatives from the Labour Party say that they are in favour of reform – but that also stops it. After all, they say no to new, broad settlements. They turn the jacket after the other games on the left-hand side, and after all, they want to reverse. For the centre party, they seem to be consistent with change and choose to ignore the challenges small municipalities face. After a whole day of debate, it is still unclear to me what solutions the Centre Party has to meet the challenges facing the Municipality of Norway. It is terribly easy to say no to changes. It's easy to close your eyes and don't take over the changes that come either we will or not, but it's also irresponsible. We need to discuss what changes we need to make to keep and make our welfare society more sustainable. The right will continue to pursue a policy that will create new, green and profitable jobs, and that will leave us with more for every penny in the public sector. I hope that the opposition too will soon join that debate, rather than close their eyes and dream back to what they want to reverse. When we're going to solve big and complex challenges, like the ones we're discussing here today, we need parties that have answers to more than one question, and that care about more than one thing. We need to see the major challenges in the context. The children will learn more in school, and the elderly will receive the health care they need. New, green jobs must be created, and people must have the skills to remain in the new world of work, while at the same time resolving the climate crisis. The climate crisis, I think, is a good example of a matter where one has to see a whole. We can't think of the climate completely disconnected from all the other challenges we're facing. Solving the climate crisis is about cutting emissions, but it's also about bringing people along. Large, abrupt changes that are not seen as a whole can, in the worst case, lead to unrest, instability and exclusion. We're going to change our policies when the world changes, but we have to do that without taking on the skylights.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e3523	The British Government has said that they will leave the EU on 31 October, with or without an agreement. This is the starting point for the government's work. Of course, we hope that the United Kingdom and the EU will reach an agreement, as this will also be the best for us. At the same time, it would be irresponsible not to prepare for both outcomes, as the government has done. The United Kingdom is a very important export market for Norwegian seafood. Only Poland, Denmark and France are bigger. The value of exports to the United Kingdom was more than 6 billion. - Thank you. - Thank you. - Thank you. Until the end of August of this year, 94 000 tonnes of seafood have been exported for nearly 4 billion tonnes. kr, to the United Kingdom. This is going to be $2.50. kr from the export of salmon. In a ‘no deal’ Brexit, the United Kingdom will become a third country in a trade context, and the rules applicable to our trade will be the same as for all other third countries, such as the United Kingdom. U.S.A. Norway has concluded a simple free trade agreement for goods, which will enter into force if ‘no deal’ becomes a fact and will remain in force until a new comprehensive trade agreement is in place. The agreement ensures that all customs preferences we have with the United Kingdom today, including: the current preferential customs duty on seafood and zero duty on industrial products is continued. Today, where we have duty-free quotas, these are continued on the basis of the volume of trade in recent years. This will ensure that the British get Norwegian cod and rent almost duty-free for their fish & chips. Lax exports to the United Kingdom are continued to 2 pst. customs duties on fresh and frozen salmon and 13 pst. for smoked salmon. This is the current WTO customs duty to the EU and therefore to the United Kingdom. In fact, in the case of ‘no deal’, we expect seafood exported to the United Kingdom to be subject to WTO customs duties on imports into the EU-27. This will help us to achieve better conditions of competition than the British in the EU market for the fish stocks and products where we currently have preferential customs duties, and to achieve a level playing field with the British for products on which we have WTO customs duties. whereas the Agreement does not include provisions in the veterinary field; However, the United Kingdom has assured us that they will not introduce veterinary border controls for Norwegian products from day one, nor will they require documents from Norwegian authorities in addition to what is required today. This was last confirmed in a meeting with the UK authorities on 2 October. This means that no fish should be kept at the border because the Norwegian exporters do not comply with the United Kingdom’s export requirements, but we must nevertheless be prepared for chaos or long waiting times at the UK border in the days following Brexit. These are things that unfortunately are beyond our control. As far as fisheries management is concerned, brexit will also have consequences for this and our common stocks. The United Kingdom will become a significant fishing nation in the north-east Atlantic when it leaves the EU, and there will be a need for a new cooperation platform in the North Sea between the EU, the United Kingdom and Norway. We also need to integrate the United Kingdom into other relevant fisheries cooperation in the North-East Atlantic. Norway has always had a good dialogue with the EU and the United Kingdom, and we have today explained our thoughts on how a future fisheries agreement structure can look. Everyone agrees that we need to continue working on a new regulatory framework in the coming period. On 30 September, we signed an agreement between Norway and the United Kingdom that ensures that the agreements we have concluded with the EU for 2019 on quota size and access to each other's zones will also apply to the United Kingdom in 2019 if there is a hard breakit on 31 October. This is important for fishermen to have predictability in their work. It is clear that with today's fishing pattern, access to British zone is important for Norwegian fishermen. This is mainly due to Norway and the EU exchanging the quota that can be fished in each other’s zones. Therefore, close and close cooperation is important; it is important that we are well prepared. And we are. We're prepared for what we can prepare for, and then the uncertainty is what characterizes the situation right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e3544	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e3549	I didn't hear anything about one of the big challenges right now, and that there's been a lot of talk about all summer, the challenge when it comes to tourist fishing. What we see along our coast now can in many ways be referred to as cowboy business, if you're going to use a more popular word. The resource crime we see when you get to Norway and provide our resources and can bring almost as much as you want out of the country. The controls are too bad, and the penalties are too small. The opposition tried on some proposals in June, asking for more stringent measures, but also for a better overview of the situation. It was voted down by the government parties. Does the Minister for Fisheries think that it would be a good idea to get a case to the Stortingen to get an overview of the situation, so that the measures can be determined from that point of view?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e3557	When it comes to whether there is going to be a case for the Storting or not, the Storting itself can take the initiatives they want to take. With regard to the situation related to tourist fishing and some of the things that have been revealed there, it is, in my view, serious. It's serious because we see precursors to organized crime -- based on what we see being discovered by what's happening around the borders. This is what we need to do, and that is why I have already invited actors to meet to take action and hear what is the actual situation out there, and what measures they will consider it right to take. From my side, it's not acceptable to sit and look at what's happening. We need more stringent measures. We've already started more stringent controls with some of these companies, and it's been more uncovered, precisely because more people are being controlled.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e3562	The Minister for Fisheries does not answer my question. I know very well that the Storting can decide what you want to get from things here in the Chamber, but I asked what the Minister for Fisheries thought could be tricked. Could it be a good idea to get a case here? I think maybe it's better to get an overview of the situation than just sitting in the Fisheries Minister's office and talking, because you've been talking about doing that for a very long time, but I haven't seen much more happening. So I ask again: does the Minister for Fisheries think that it might be wise to get a transparent case to the Stortinget to decide the measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e3567	The most important thing I think has to do here is action, not necessarily that we're going to spend a long time on this. That's why I've already called the parties. It's set date, we're going to have a meeting, and we're going to start evaluating different actions. In addition, the government has already taken action. The fine level has been doubled in order to take fish illegally. In addition, a registration system related to tourist fishing establishments is in place. Other measures are also considered. I think the most important thing we can do is take action that works, so we make things happen, not necessarily what form we use. But if Stortinget wants one thing, it's up to Stortinget if they want to order it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e3572	It was right here in this hall we increased the fines, so I know that too. So the Minister for Fisheries says that action should be taken, that one should have meetings, and that there is a date set. Then I wonder, when is this meeting – because it's been about for quite a long time now? And then I wonder what types of measures you can take now quickly to do something about it. It is also of great importance to our reputation abroad that this is going on in the extent that it does.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e3579	This meeting will take place this year, on this page of the New Year. In this context, we will spend time towards the next season and ensure that measures are put in place. As far as the fines are concerned, I don't think that the fines were increased in this room, it was probably the Riksadvokat and others who took that initiative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e3584	I think that was a good answer, so far. What I'm asking you is, are there any calculations of the extent of this tourist fishing? If so, how big is it?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e3589	No, we don't know enough about the extent of that. of the seizures made. That is why it is very important to register the fish that is taken out through tourist fishing establishments, because we also need to keep the residue. Unfortunately, what we're seeing today is that part of the people who are dealing with the illegal part of this is just taking the cod loins, that's the finest part of the fillet, and then picking up the rest. It makes us miss out on great values, and besides, there's a lot of fish that we don't get registered. So it's important that we do this in a proper way. But neither should we be in the situation of banning fishing tourism, because this creates very many jobs along the coast, in the districts. What's important is that we get it in order, make sure that we know what the extraction is, and limit it, so that those who have fishing as their daily function do not get hurt in this situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e3596	Thank you for the answer – that was all right. What I'm thinking about is whether you need fishing tourism. Yes, you do, but not in the form it now has. We've seen that only those who leave the country are controlled. We might have the same number of people who go inland, who take with them considerable quantities of fish and run a pretty lucuba business based on this. There have been several attempts to stop it, but you haven't made it. What's important is to look at the size of it. I actually don't think people are aware of how big it is, and I think you're going to be surprised when you see the exact numbers.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e3605	It is important to get the overview of the representative Iversen. But I don't think we're going to be in a situation where we're going to put all-man rights over control, for all-men's rights – and being able to practice coastal culture, being able to go out on the fjord and take out the string to fish, both for their daily kitchen and everything else – I think it's important that we hang around. Because if we lose our coastal culture, we also lose a very important part of our own cultural heritage.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e3610	The President will state that the Council of State is not addressed as ‘you’, but as ‘the Council of State’ or ‘the Minister’.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e3615	Fishing tourism is enormous. There are about 7 000 tonnes of cod per year for this purpose, but research shows that there is probably much more than that. Some suggest that it's up to 30,000 tons, that it's completely out of control, and that it can also affect our relationship with Russia, with which we negotiate cod quotas. As far back as 2016, SV began to propose measures in this area. Then we were voted down by the government party that at least we should gain knowledge about this area. We were voted in favour by the government that one should have mandatory registration of the farms, and that there should be requirements for safety on the boats because foreign fishing tourists are overrepresented in fatal accidents at sea. Even one voted against. But we had at least an impact on the Stortinget to convert one into round fish on export. It was in 2016, and the government has still not delivered in this area. When is the Council of State going to deliver anything?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e3625	Now I think we should have this meeting with the industry itself in order to review what has to do with both the scale and the types of action we should take. In the case of the conversion part, which the representative of Knag Fylkesnes is involved in, I am not sure if it is the way to go, but it may be one of the measures to be considered, also as a result of what the Stortinget has said earlier, and which is contained in the documents from the Stortinget. All these measures need to be considered.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e3632	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e3637	We have big challenges we have to solve together. Climate emissions need to be reduced. Action is urgent and Norway needs to contribute more. Too many people stand without jobs in this country, and the differences between people are increasing. At the same time, we have a government that doesn't have the ability to solve these challenges. Yes, government parties do not even agree on whether these are challenges. In the government there are people from parties who doubt whether climate change is man-made. There are people there from parties who instead of getting more people to work choose to pay more priority not to work, but to go home. And when more and more people are out of work or need help to get back in, what does the government do? Well, it makes it harder to qualify for work by cutting the AAP for young people. This once again helps to increase the differences between them in work and those without a job, between those who have the most, and those who have the least. So we have a government that, in the field of field and with deliberate policy, helps to increase the differences in Norwegian society. We have a government that doesn't have the ability to agree on what our major challenges actually are, or how to solve them. Instead, we have wrangling for open stage. Because the government has spent the most time in recent times, it's not the challenges our nation has, and the everyday problems that most people know about -- no, it's their own, internal disputes in order to retain power -- a kind of couple therapy. And couple therapy has driven this government a lot. They've been good at it, and one of the budget leaks we've just heard about is that it's going to be worth $30 million. I want to give people couple therapy. Thirty million. kr to pair therapy is good and good, but it might sound a little awkward when we know at the same time that the government has used 22 toll pills on their own mating therapy to save their wobbly marriage. For the Workers' Party, job number one is to get more people to work. That's why we're fighting for a working life with room for more people, where more people can get a full job, because that's what creates security and freedom in life. We are fighting for a working life where fewer people have to know about the timing, where more people can get the combination of working life and family life in a good way, and where no one has to wait on short-term contracts. We have to bring down the differences between people, and we have to use the community's resources on ordinary people and on welfare. All of them, most vulnerable in Norwegian society, the kids that the state, child protection, has to take care of from their parents, the kids who need care the most, are not going to be able to run stores and make money by taking advantage of community resources – money that would go to better care. We want to ensure that those resources benefit the most vulnerable children, that the money goes to more warmth and care, not profit. That is why we believe that child protection should be operated by public or by ideal forces. Nor did the language of the throne mention the word equality once this year, and in this way the government continues its rough course. The right-wing government has weakened the gender mainstreaming tools that have made Norway one of the world’s most equalised countries. In addition, for the last year, we have been put on the shameful list of countries that have restricted women's right to control their own bodies. By tightening the abortion law, Norwegian women failed to maintain their own power. The working party will move in a different direction. We want to strengthen, not weaken, equality. We want to strengthen, not weaken, women's right to decide for ourselves. There is only an increase in equality that can give people in Norway more freedom – and real freedom of choice. The government's results point in the opposite direction. The result of right-wing policy is equality in reverses and larger differences. And the fact that someone has to remain means less equality, that means increasing inequality. We in the Workers' Party believe in something else. We know that the major challenges are best solved in common, and we know that we are stronger together.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e3654	The party of progress is the party of the motorists. The Greens say they love tolls. We don't share that in love. What the Advance Party loves is the smell of newly created asphalt. With the 2019 budget, the transport budget has increased by about 75 pst. since the government's accession and 2019 becomes the fifth consecutive year of the reduction of the national road maintenance run. This is not obvious, because before we got into government, the reality was that the maintenance run on the national road network only increased and increased for every single year under the red-green. The government's goal of creating a sustainable welfare society depends on more people getting into work by creating more attractive jobs so that people can live and work throughout our long-term country. A business-friendly policy that contributes to the creation of values depends on offensive transport policies. When the government wants to make Norway a laboratory for blue industries, bets on the highway and the county road in the districts are absolutely vital to our success of our ambitions along the coast. Effective transport corridors are the key for the goods and food we produce to get into the world market quickly, safely and smoothly. The Progress Party is therefore not only the best friend of the drivers, but also the best friend of the districts, because without jobs we do not get attractive districts in our country. And without the necessary infrastructure, it becomes more difficult for business to bet and to create values. Only in North Norway have the appropriations for highways tripled with the Progress Party in government. This proves that it has something to say who controls. Where others are most busy talking, we are busy acting. Since we took the government offices, it smelled new asphalt from Agder in the south to Finnmark in the north. During 2019, traffic of 102 kilometres by new motorway will be opened. This is in addition to the 111 kilometers that are open from 2013. The fact that we are now connecting the country through a new high-speed road network is of great importance. It reduces travel time for passenger traffic and provides more efficient market access for businesses around the country. And perhaps most importantly, it's safer to travel on our way. The record bet on the road shows that it is possible to have two thoughts in your head at the same time. For while the transport budget has increased significantly, car drivers’ fees have fallen since 2013. The drivers are no longer a country dairy cow. Before 2013, the country included more car-related taxes than it used on the road. Now we've turned this picture around, and the drivers actually pay 13 billion. D less in fees thanks to the Progress Party. But let me be honest: it's no secret that in the Progress Party we don't like tolls, and that we would prefer to see all the bombs removed. Unfortunately, we're once alone in this hall to mean this, while we want to build more roads. Through our participation in government for six years now, we've had a huge impact on cutting tolls, but we're far from satisfied, and we're not going to give in to the fight against tolls as long as there's still a pulse in us. The toll settlement that came before the election this fall is proof of that very thing. Being able to reduce the toll by having a hand on the steering wheel is better for the drivers than if the Progress Party had been outside. Not only had the tolls been higher, it had also been built out less of a road. By cutting car charges, we now see more and more zero- and low-emission cars in traffic. This shows that bans, restrictions and increased charges are unnecessary. Rather, by making good choices it is possible for people to buy more environmentally friendly and traffic-proof cars. With the policy now being pursued, it is not only the drivers that come out well; the climate is also coming out better. In addition, differences are reduced by providing more jobs throughout Norway and making it more reasonable for business to employ even more people. That's what reduces the differences. It is not the benefits in general, but people get to work — and they get safe and sound at work and at home again.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e3683	The debate on the throne is the day of the year in which we are constantly exposed to quite dubious claims about our own policies. It's actually a pretty interesting experiment to be exposed to. But I think it has two effects. One is that those who repeat and repeat these claims are beginning to believe in themselves. The other effect is that people out there gradually stop listening to us. One of the claims that we hear most times is that the police reform has failed. It's not. The only thing that's failed is the working party's staying capacity. I think that in the future people will look back at this reform and say that yes, it was difficult, yes, it was tough, but it was necessary, and one will be glad that there were some politicians who stood firm and upright and managed to carry out such an important reform. Another claim that is repeated and repeated is that the government has weakened preparedness in Norway. It's almost become a slogan ever after. I could list hundreds of measures that have made Norway a safer country. There are approx. Eight billion reasons in the state budget for improving preparedness. But I am most concerned about how this is perceived by those who are working on standby out there. How do they perceive the debate, those who are now out flying in new police helicopters? Do you think they would agree that preparedness is worse? Those who are going to move into a floating new, top modern emergency centre, do they think they will agree that the preparedness has become weaker? Those who proudly show up new operating centres that, despite some headlines here and there, are proving to work better than it did before, do you think they'll agree to such claims? Those in the police who have got 2,800 new colleagues, with top modern equipment, from Finnmark in the north to Agder in the south, I don't think they agree with the simplification that Norway should have weakened preparedness compared to before – on the contrary. This is a trend. Politics was about breaking ideas, but now it's just about slogans, headlines and simplifications, and maybe also about creating division to serve on it itself – city-to-country, elite against people, rich against poor, EEA and business and welfare professionals and capital forces against workers. This will never go well in the long term unless we can take some steps back, find back to the seriousness and responsibility that this country was once built on. When, for example, did it happen? So dangerous with expert selection? When were we afraid to receive input from those who are much wiser than we who sit in this room? We must not be afraid of the conclusions they make, even if we may disagree. It's a fresh day example that's been mentioned so often in this room today, and it's the Court Commission. I stress that it is the independent court commission – it may be useful to underline – that has worked thoroughly and seriously for two years with a proposal that is far, far from a political phase, but where politicians go out and cancel politics without having read one word, one sentence on the reasons they come with. That's a strange way to make decisions. Then I think maybe we should let ourselves be inspired by some of the judges on whom the report is written, because it is probably those in Norway who make the biggest decisions on behalf of individuals every single, benevolent day. They refuse a mother's compensation after the car accident she's been in, they refuse a father's cohabitation with their child, they find a son who may have risked a long prison sentence, they judge a daughter's offender, they cancel the billion-dollar contract to the corner stone company. The common feature of the way they come up with these decisions is as simple as it is ingenious, and it's that they listen. They listen to each page, they listen to experts, they listen to witnesses. So they take the time to think, and only then do they come to the conclusion. Had more followed the example of the judges, maybe we politicians too would have appeared to be a little bit more thorough, a little more serious and not just given the impression that we are in constant search of choice. Maybe we'd also get some future viewers and listeners to the persuasion debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e3700	A strong public health system is a cornerstone of our welfare state. Under this government, there is an increasing social health difference in Norway. There has been a policy for increasing the centralisation and privatisation of hospital services and preparedness. The route to health services and emergency and food supply is increasing where distances are greatest. It frames small communities hard, but also the people who belong to the full hospitals in the towns. We now need a new direction in health policy that ensures that it oversees the goal of as much equivalent health services as possible, regardless of the social background or of each cage – a policy that actually prioritises strong public health provision throughout the country. In a few weeks, the government will present a new national health and hospital plan. The Health Minister says that the new health plan should not be about hospital structure, because he believes that the government has finished in the previous health plan. That's not true. There are still large and uplifting hospital debates – in More and Romesdal, in Oslo, in Helgeland and in West Finland. An entire gangster has started fighting about the food supply, and it's not for no reason. This shows that we need elected management of hospital policy. We need to scrape the health care reform. We must govern and finance hospitals in the same way as one has political elected government and framework funding for schools and care for the elderly. We can't control hospitals in Norway according to corporate economic principles, with group boards where directors come and go in rows and rows, and where production has to go in surplus to afford to invest. The government’s new health plan should describe investments – that is, not adopt, not prioritize, but describe. Health professionals must – as before – be allowed to finance. In this way, the government will continue to leave to healthcare professionals to make unpopular cuts in patient treatment, in ambulance preparedness, in rushes and psychiatry to reach budget targets and to make a surplus to invest in necessary construction. We need a new policy for financing hospitals. We have to separate investment and operations, and hospitals have to stop being subject to business accounting as other private groups. We also need a new food and maternity policy, which ensures that women are provided with food, sleep time, follow-up services and maternity. Today, the Central Party has put forward proposals to ask the government not to shut down food departments or other food shortages and a Document 8 proposal for an enhanced follow-up service where distances are over one hour. We need more food supply in Norway, not less. As one of the main steps in the new health plan, the Minister of Health has warned that municipalities and hospitals should become partners, not parties. But we don't need that kind of flocculation and word games. We need one to take political responsibility, because the government's efficiency requirements for healthcare professionals go right beyond the municipal health service. The interaction reform is not followed up. It has let the government develop into a task transfer reform without funding. It is the government's own hospital policy that is the reason why trust between hospitals and municipalities in many cities is thinly worn out, as in Nordmøre, where all municipal government in our break-in cooperation agreements. The government allows hospitals to save and improve their efficiency by sending patients home early, preferably in the middle of the night. If the patient is in the final phase of life, there is clearly no obstacle — back and forth. Unworthy transports are the dark back of government health policy. It shows a health care service that is money-driven and not value-driven. A few weeks ago, the regular evaluation shows that the reduction in hospital time is also an important cause of the fixed-term crisis, as the firmers have experienced a significant increase in the workload. But I say we don't have a fixed crisis in Norway. We have a systemic crisis in Health-Norway, and it's politically created, not professional. For the centre party, it is important to get a system change. We want a value-driven healthcare service, where one does not miss out on what is the real goal and content of our healthcare service, where we strengthen the Norwegian healthcare service as a comprehensive and solidarity-based welfare system, where people are seen and met. Especially when you're sick.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e3725	Very many of the representatives of the right-wing parties have tried to tell us that the worker party's governance is impaired. It's of course unfounded, it's wrong, but it's clearly a conscious tactical choice to cover up a reality. Then it's worth remembering that we're sitting with a panoramic view of a government with strong internal contradictions, where the government parties for the open stage quarrel and give each other personality traits, and where tolls have a stronger commitment than the greatest challenges that society faces. There is every reason to question governance, but not the Workers' Party – on the other hand, the Government. Things like climate and new-growth transformation require political action. After six years of right-wing policy, greenhouse gas emissions do not decrease. After six years of so-called conversion focus on the part of the government, the Norwegian economy will not be converted. After six years of right-wing policy, the employment rate in Norway is low. Exposured groups do not enter the labour market and policy stimulates, not the development of safe, forward-looking jobs, but short-stay immigration and rental. After six years of right-wing policy, a great deal of oil money has been used where the richest are favored with tax relief, while those who need our attention are aged out in a definition of sustainable welfare societies with considerable well-being. Right-wing policy is not what the future needs. The Labour Party is clear that the main task of the policy is to take Norway through a green and fair shift, in order to ensure significantly reduced greenhouse gas emissions and safe, forward-looking jobs. It is about using renewable natural resources, such as water, wind and forest, to support the jobs of the future, recognising that industry is part of the solution, and ensuring that Norway becomes a more attractive host country for forward-looking industry. More needs to be invested than it is today. We need to be impatient and secure fast decisions about carbon capture projects in industry – the opposite of what the government is doing. The oil and gas industry must be developed, not phased out. Industry will be an important bridge to the future. It is about carbon capture and storage, from natural gas to hydrogen, minerals for a green shift, new marine productions and liquid sea winds. In a situation where conversion is required more than ever, the Norwegian model with small differences and a high level of security is the very foundation. Ordinary people need more security. The fight against social dumping must be reinforced. Temporary employment needs to be reduced in favour of full permanent jobs. Differences must be reduced, not increased. It is legal policy, not the EEA Agreement, that prevents such positive developments. In the throne we heard that the government would make Norway a laboratory for blue industries and green traffic at sea. I can say, Welcome after! Reference was also made to the updated maritime strategy ‘Blue Opportunities’, and there is reason to ask the question: Who are these blue possibilities for? In Skipsrevyen a few days ago, we could read that the government sees several negative consequences of Norwegian working conditions on Norwegian soil. Yes, where the government sees negative consequences for Norwegian pedestal due to Norwegian pay and working conditions, the Labour Party chooses to see it positive. Norwegian seafarers are a major and important resource for Norway, not least for Norway as a port. Norwegian wage and working conditions are in principle correct if they are on land, on board a rig or on board a ship operating in Norwegian waters and on a Norwegian base. We have received two reports in which it is clear that it is fully possible to impose requirements on Norwegian wage and working conditions in Norwegian waters and on Norwegian soil. I am convinced that Norwegian wage and working conditions are unconditionally positive and far exceed any negative consequences. But I have no faith that the right-wing government will care about doing anything for Norwegian seafarers. Let it be clear: The Labour Party believes that Norwegian pay and working conditions are a matter of course for the development of a proud port that has great ambitions for value creation based on the many opportunities offered by the sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e3738	On social media such as Facebook, thousands of oil workers recently changed their profile pictures, where they added the text ‘Stolen oilworks’. To all oil workers out there: I want you to know that in the Advance Party we are proud of the job you have done and done, because we are to be proud of the oil industry. It's got a fantastic 50-year story. Although more people both talk about and, as we saw in this year's municipal elections, vote for parties who will have managed to wind up these jobs, I am determined that oil workers also have an exciting future. The person to turn off the light on the Norwegian base is not yet born. Those who work as proud oil workers are our everyday heroes. Without them on a Norwegian base, this country had looked completely different. The oil industry is world-class high technology and competence, creating growth, well-being and jobs across the country. Of course we as a nation shall be proud of it, so a thousand heartfelt thanks for the effort, all the oil workers! If we are to afford to provide good welfare services, expand the infrastructure, provide high quality education, we need the oil industry. It will give us hundreds of billions of revenues for decades to come. The solution to climate and environmental challenges lies in research and new technologies. The solution is not to turn off the light, both in the transmitted and in the literal sense. A controlled closure of oil and gas activities will be no more than very costly symbolic policies. This will lead to minimal changes in world climate emissions. This will lead to less money for welfare schemes at home, but also to high unemployment. We should avoid high unemployment, and the most important thing for this government is to get more in work, because work prevents poverty, and it balances social differences. We know that in the future more people will have to work longer and more people will have to work, we will be able to maintain and further develop today's welfare society. If we're to succeed, we have to make sure that businesses get their competitiveness increased, and that's done through special three steps: it's tax, it's transport, and it's school. But first of all, we need to reduce the costs of businesses by reducing the level of taxation and red tape. The government's goal, as we heard in the throne, is to reduce business costs by 10 billion. kr by simplifying reporting, laws and regulations in the next few years. Furthermore, we must build the country and dare to invest even more in infrastructure. Better roads, new tunnels, continental connections, more frequent train departures are examples of what businesses demand to be able to improve their competitiveness. Finally, we must invest in knowledge and research. Money spent on e.g. Early efforts today save money in 20 years' time on social assistance, labour market measures and unemployment benefits. The representative Støre chose to move forward, among others. the exchange of lines school with the representative of Greece as an example of an area where Norway is heading in the wrong direction. Still, we have big challenges with the dropout, which is too high. Thousands of students continue to leave school each year with so weak skills that they will have problems coping with further education and jobs. Therefore, this government has worked systematically with early efforts and a boost for the professions as important areas of school policy. That is why we are in the process of reforming the trade union. That is why we change the supply structure in the professional sector, and therefore we send over 6,000 teachers each year to continuing education. The last thing that the OECD highlights is the most important and effective thing we can do to increase the quality of teaching around the country's classroom. The representative Støre would like to be concerned about developments in Norwegian school, but I am proud of the results that we are now starting to see after six years in government. The students learn more, absence sinks, and more complete higher education. We've started a professional career, and we've made a record in the number of apprenticeships four years in a row. There are several teachers in school, and the bullies are now the lowest that have ever been measured. We're not on target. In the future, we will be provided with big messages both about early efforts and about learning all of our lives to do more about what is the big challenges. But the direction so far – the direction so far – in school policy should not be doubted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e3759	We are facing a new and more demanding day-to-day security policy situation. The challenge picture is changing. In the coming years, Norway has to manoeuvre in a landscape characterised by increased competition and increased rivalry. China challenges the leadership of the United States globally. Russia continues the military modernisation of its armed forces. Both use a wide range of military and non-military instruments to achieve their policy objectives. The risk will be greater and the signaling more offensive. The military activity in our neighbourhoods is increasing. The Nordic regions are once again becoming a strategic competition area. Russia exercises and trains further south and west in our seas. During the exercise Ocean Shield in August, the activity in the Barents Sea, the Norwegian Sea and the North Sea along the Norwegian coast was high. The activity was such a character and of such a scale that we have to go back to the Soviet Union and the Cold War to find historical parallels. The threat of international terrorism and the ring-fence of conflicts elsewhere in the world persist. The Western world order, as we know it, is challenged from the outside and challenged from within. We are exposed to a wider range of instruments from both state and non-state actors. The threats have become more complex. New technologies affect the framework conditions for security policy. We are witnessing a military and commercial technological race. High-tech weapons with longer reach and increased precision provide us with shorter alert time and can cause us greater damage. The outer space, along with the digital space, is becoming increasingly important. The distinction between peace, crisis and war is becoming more unclear. State security and social security are more closely linked than before. Threats to social security may have a more rapid impact on security policy. Vulnerability affects several sectors at the same time. Our understanding of defence and security and our ability to identify and counteract new and old threats are being challenged. This puts Norwegian and allied safety to the test. This is behind the government's work on a new long-term defence plan and new social security notice for the justice sector. The current long-term defence plan was based on the recognition of a changing security policy situation. There was a need to correct a strong imbalance between tasks, structure and economy. This was a proper analysis. We seized, strengthened the defense and reversed the negative development in the defense. Since then, the uncertainty of the security policy situation has increased in strength and scope. A more unstable world puts pressure on Norway. When power comes in front of the right, small states will have reduced space for action. In the ultimate sense, this will reduce our influence over our own interests and our own security. The challenges must be met nationally and internationally, together with allies. The importance of NATO and the transatlantic community is reinforced. We have to do more together. We need to facilitate Norway’s ability to receive reinforcements and operate with allied forces. We must contribute more to the burden-sharing of the alliance. Multinational and regional cooperation has become more important and complements cooperation in NATO. Defence cooperation in the Nordic countries and the Northern Group is constantly developing. Regional cooperation formats such as the European Intervention Initiative, the German-led Capability Cooperation Framework and the British-led Joint Expeditionary Force are important complements to NATO. In each way, these cooperations contribute to strengthening dialogue, crisis management capability and joint military efforts. We need an enhanced national defence that is present in our areas, understands the situation and can respond. National defence capability is not credible or effective without an allied framework. Similarly, collective ally defence is not effective without strong national defence, supported by a modernised total defence. This is essential to maintain national freedom of action and influence over the development of our neighbourhoods. Only with independent ability, which is credible and sufficiently robust, are we able to secure ourselves and our allies, thus contributing to international peace and security. That is the objective of allied defence cooperation – peace and security.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e3787	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e3793	On the basis of what we have now heard from the Minister of Defence tell Stortinget, I will take a serious perspective. We in the Defence Committee are used to getting many enquiries from retired military personnel that express a great deal of anxiety and scepticism. What has now happened, however, is that Lieutenant General and Chief of Defense Operational Headquarters in Bodø today, Rune Jakobsen, say in the public room: ‘The main dilemma for the entire defence, if we are going to go further with the same resources that we now have, is that we are not able to endure until allied help comes. So that's the first thing we have to fix." This is an opinion that is very serious from a person who has as much responsibility as he does in the current situation, and that is not in line with what the head of defense says to the Stortinge regarding the defence report. What is the Chief of Defence's view of this opinion?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e3803	The Chief of Defence is probably in complete agreement with Rune Jakobsen – the Minister of Defence is also largely in agreement with Rune Jakobsen. This is also addressed in the speeches I gave in the Oslo Military Society in January, and the speech that the head of defence gave me three weeks. We made a long-term plan in 2016. We've also been open that the activity has been bigger than we planned then. We've been sailing more, we've been floating more, and we've had to roll more with our land forces – simply because the activity in our neighbourhoods has been bigger. It has given us challenges professionally, and it has given us challenges in being robust enough. So the issue that the head of the Defense Operational Headquarters went up in the VG this weekend, and probably has spoken about today, too, is known, and it is also pronounced by the Defence Director and by the Defence Minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e3808	But does that mean that the Minister of Defense, on behalf of the Government, agrees with Lieutenant General Rune Jakobsen? Is it that we're not able to defend ourselves now, that we can't manage to accept the allies? Is that what the Minister of Defense is now saying to the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e3813	No, and that's not what Rune Jakobsen said either. Rune Jakobsen has said that the Army is too small in relation to the activity and expectations we have. The Professional Military Council of the Chief of Defense takes up the whole picture of all the weapons. The relationship between what the Air Force does, what the Marine does, and what the Land Force does is a significant factor here. But it has been stated, as I say, that we have had challenges in being robust enough in the future. It's been addressed in the speeches from me and the head of defense. It was addressed in the mandate of the Defence Research Institute when they were to do the knowledge study before we made a mandate to the Chief of Defence, who comes with his professional-military council on Tuesday. It is therefore addressed in that mandate. So it's nothing new that we've had challenges to keep over time -- it's been addressed for a long time, because the activity we have now is higher than before.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e3820	This is a serious question. I'm trying to listen up with the best of intentions, but I can't quite capture what the Council of State really says. I think he says both. I ask him if he stands behind the understanding that the head of operating headquarters has, and that he has gone out into public space and said, that we are unable to defend ourselves today in such a way that we are able to accept allied forces. Can the Minister of Defence confirm that this is true or false?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e3825	No, and that's not what Rune Jakobsen, the head of the Defense Operational Headquarters, says. He says the Army has become so small that we have great challenges. We knew during Trident Juncture that we would do the problem. So the head of defense has been clear that we have challenges in being solid enough over time. It is, as I say, addressed through my speech in Oslo Military Society, through the speech of the head of defence in Oslo Military Society and through the mandates given by the government to the head of defence when he is to come with his professional military council for the next long-term plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e3830	I also tried to listen to answers given by the Minister of Defence to the representative Kolberg's questions, and I was also not wiser than the representative was, so I would like to follow up on the same matter. I shall repeat the quotation that Kolberg also referred to: ‘The army is now too small to defend Norway in a conflict until reinforcements from NATO are in place.’ Norway's combined defence capabilities are about what resources we have on the ground, at sea and in the airspace. I have to ask the Minister of Defense two questions: if the Minister of Defense has agreed on this, what does it mean in practice, and will the government take action to strengthen the Army, which has been one of the two main issues in the debate here in the house for the last six years, and where until now the government has driven self-punishment by its own efforts?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e3840	The last part of the description is not correct. In the case of the second part of the description, I will take it slowly. It's the way Rune Jakobsen sits in the head of the defense team. The Chief of Defence will be coming on Tuesday with a professional military council that addresses the whole of Norway’s defence capabilities. The Defence Manager has also previously addressed that due to higher activity, we have challenges of being robust enough over time with the Defence today. It has also been signaled that the Army, when it is to be more present, has that kind of endurance challenges. It was addressed in the mandate of the head of defence when he was to prepare his professional military council, that he should give us answers to that part. The professional military council will be presented on Tuesday, and I expect the head of defence to give an overall assessment of that particular issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e3845	I hear the Minister for Defence say more things, but is it correctly understood that the Minister for Defence has agreed on what the Head of the Joint Operational Headquarters says? It has itself given expression to the corresponding point of view at a much earlier point in time. So this has been known to the Minister of Defence. Then we must expect that in the budget presented on Monday, the Minister of Defence and the Government will respond to the situation that has been described as serious for the Army.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e3850	There are several things here. First of all, we have been farming since we came into government. We are present in Finnmark with more forces. We have purchased new materials for more strengths. We've also addressed this issue the way we're going to address it when we ask the defense chief to come up with professional military advice. It's not an unknown problem that we have endurance problems in our forces, but it's also that we can't pick out one weapon. There are no plans to say that only the Army is to defend Norway. So these are the ‘total resources’, which are also a concept that representatives use. I'm dealing with the Chief of Defense, who is my top professional military adviser. He has both the Chief Army, the Chief Maritime Defense, the Chief Air Force and the head of the Armed Forces Operational Headquarters in his leadership group. They've been working out the professional military council. As I said, the problem has been known. We addressed it in the mandate, and we expect the Chief of Defense to give us some answers when he delivers his professional military advice on Tuesday. And then I ask respect for not expressing myself on the budget to be promoted on Monday.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e3859	Another president, Donald Trump, is going to build a wall against Mexico, and in this regard, a lot of money is now being taken from the US defence budget to finance this wall. It has also meant that the US government expects European allies to pay much more for US military projects and infrastructure on European soil. There is a problem that has also been raised in Norwegian media. Under this government, Norway has become much more dependent on the United States than before. It concerns both the increased presence of US forces at the Guards, Setermoen and other, and there have been questions about US investment in fighting aircraft sites at Rygge. I have seen that the Minister of Defence in the media has said that Norway will not pay for it, but I would like it to be said here in the house. Is it not up to the government to finance US military projects in Norway as a result of budget cuts in the United States?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e3865	I would like to start with the beginning of the article of the representative Lighthouse. It's not like we've made ourselves more U.S. dependent. We've had a defense doctrine since 1949 where we've been saying we're going to be a member of a defense alliance. After the Second World War, it was crystal clear to many Norwegian politicians that standing alone was not the solution if you were to bring peace. So we've been a member of NATO since 1949. Being in an alliance and running allied activity together means more presence of allies when there is a need for it. And the security situation, as I described in my post, tells us that there is a greater need for more allied activity, more allied presence – and that's what we've seen. There has been a discussion about infrastructure in Europe in some projects. The Americans have made a proposal to build something in Norway, and now they have said that they are going to use the money somewhere else. We immediately have no need to build those platforms. That is why I replied no when I was asked if we would take over the project.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e3874	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e3881	It is our common task here at Stortinget to ensure better governance of our country. Differences between people are increasing. The Norwegian economy is becoming increasingly oil dependent, and now we just got confirmation that defence capabilities are too weak. That is why we must have a more actionable and forward-looking leadership of the country. The Labour Party is clear – we build security for people. That's why we want to strengthen the Army. That's why we want to make sure that we all get a pension from the first penny we earn, no matter what we do. For this reason, we will increase investment in our common health system rather than disassemble rights to default or privatise and centralise basic services. The best thing about Norway is that we've been a country with little differences between people. We've worked for each other's happiness. On the other hand, when we experience a cut in the welfare of ordinary people, it leads us on an unfortunate path. The welfare state that has been built up by workers and elected representatives has always had clear objectives – distribution and belief in the future – that tomorrow will be a little safer than today and that tomorrow will bring social progress. Because we know that common security is a choice, and it has proved to be a wise choice. The short-term feast for the richest can be expensive for the wider population. History has taught us that community works better than short-term, ideological and individualistic curvatures.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e3890	Before the next speaker gets the floor, the President would like to inform Stortinget that we are somewhat on track. Last year we started at 3:00 p.m. 20.08, and this year we started at 8 p.m. 20.09. So this is going pretty well.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e3895	We have just finished an election campaign where, for my part, I have spent a lot of time visiting entrepreneurs in small and medium-sized enterprises. I have met skilled entrepreneurs who each contribute in their own way to the creation of value and new jobs for the benefit of the community: the fisherman in Hammerfest, who, with hard work and high economic risk, has created one of Norway's best sushire restaurants, the farmer in Rennesøy, who makes maximum use of grazing resources to reduce the need for power feed, and the young fisherman on Averøy, who started with two empty hands at age 16, and now has two men working at 15 metres. They are examples of the best in Norwegian business: energetic and work-related managers of small businesses — people who have turned dreams and visions into reality through hard work and willingness to take chances to achieve their goals. When such entrepreneurs experience success, when they are able to build a fortune and gain financially from their pursuit, there is nothing wrong with it. When the parties on the left in the political landscape make it a bit immoral to succeed as a businessman and create economic gain, that is something we clearly distance ourselves from. At the same time, we see that the concentration of power in business can often have negative consequences, trends in monopoly, short-term gain and market abuse of power towards smaller competitors. Therefore, the Christian People's Party is a party that will work to maintain a rich flora of small and medium-sized enterprises throughout the country. We will cheer up the local entrepreneurs and facilitate their success. Such an enterprise structure creates and maintains jobs in the districts and contributes to the spread of power in the business community. It is industrial policy in line with the Haugian roots, which are an important part of the ideological anchoring of the Christian People's Party. I would also like to take the opportunity to bring forward a part of the Norwegian business that is often forgotten and is seriously underestimated. VTA enterprises and people in need of special organisation in order to function in the workplace contribute significantly to value creation. During the election campaign I got to visit two such companies: Us Asvo and Glow Avd Frekhaug. There were strong experiences, where I got to meet people who through daily work get self-respect and a meaningful everyday life. It was also impressive to see how these companies fulfil an important role as subcontractors because they are competitive in quality and price. I'm proud that over the past six years, first as an opposition party and then in government, the Christian People's Party has fought a huge increase in VTA workplaces. There are now 1,800 more people who receive a job offer in VTA companies than six years ago. We are also proud that in the next few years the government will launch an equivalised reform, in which people with different disabilities will be guaranteed a dignified and meaningful life in line with others in society. Organising participation in the labour market will therefore continue to be a priority task for the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e3906	The right will continue to pursue a policy that will bring the whole country into operation. To achieve this, we need a good and secure transport system that binds the common housing and labour markets together. It is particularly demanding in a country that is long-term, pig-grown and with many small and medium-sized agglomerations. Technological developments give us better and safer travel both to land, to water and to air, but Norway is still piggy, which we need to take into account in the design of transport and communications policies. We can't pretend that the country is different than what it really is. The car and the truck will still be the most important means of transport in large parts of the country. Collective transport will mainly take place by taxi and bus in the districts, while trams and T-Bahn will belong in the very largest cities. Trains are the backbone of daily commuting in and out of the largest cities, which requires large investments in increased transport capacity. The short-haul network is important to connect the country – north-south and east-west. The recognition of this will be essential for the adaptation of the transport sector to the climate challenges. Transport must be climate friendly and investment in these means of transport must be worthwhile. Population growth and changes in consumption patterns could lead to increased transport needs, but digitisation may move in the opposite direction. Smart planning in cities and agglomerations can help to increase the number of journeys to work with bicycles and corridors. New, modern infrastructure can reduce travel time and energy consumption. Public transport can become more competitive through increased frequency, better regularity and sufficient capacity. More goods can be moved from road to sea and track. The Transport and Communications Committee will have visited all the counties during the first three years of the landfilling period. Here we get useful input from both trade unions, interest groups and local politicians from all the parties. What we can see is that the challenges are many, and they are different from states to states. Everything is in favour of a broad approach to transport policy in the future. The case of E18 is mostly about this. It is a project that will take care of the need for Bærum to clean up what is currently traffic jam, cork and chaos. The Sandvika Tunnel has the same meaning for Bærum as the Fortress Tunnel and Opera Tunnel have for Oslo. Everyone who signed Oslopackak 3 in 2016 knew that E18 Lysaker–Asker was a prerequisite for the Right to sign. This is what makes the Workers' Party in the Week now jeopardize the agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e3921	Robbery policy is challenged along two axes. One concerns individual administrative decisions that challenge the reconciliation and the authority of predators. That is why, among other things, it must: as soon as possible, a new standing, time-limited killing permit shall be granted for wolves who have been found to have done damage to Agder and Trøndelag. Fall in the summer is difficult, fall in the snow is easier, and we now go into the cold time. I believe that without such a permission to be killed, predatory policies will lose additional legitimacy. The second axis is about a change of systems that will remove predatory management from the policy and take it into bureaucratic, anonymous meeting rooms – probably because the policy seems to be too grudging for the government, and perhaps in particular the Minister for Climate and Environment. Before the summer, the government sent out to consult proposals for major changes in predator management. Among other things, it was suggested that today's eight predatory game subjects be merged into four or five, and the argument was supported, among other things. on regional reform. I didn't know we were going to get four or five regions from New Year's – I thought it was eleven – but that's what it says about the rest of the argument about the regional reform. I guess the truth is that you want to get rid of what the government sees as sensitive predators, names that have a composition based on the voter's judgment in elections. The Ministry also writes that they believe that eight regions, such as today, function poorly in terms of predictable management. If there's something that works badly, it's the lack of respect for Storting's goals and the way to organise predatory policies. The robbers shall consist of representatives based in their local regions, who shall, on behalf of the Grand Duchy, manage the decisions taken here in a good, conscientious and professional manner. It would be very unfortunate if you chose to merge, for example: Hedmark and Uppland with Oslo, Eastfold, Akershus, Vestfold, Buskerud and Telemark, as proposed, as these regions have quite different problems related to predators. In addition, the government will introduce what has been called a supernatant, because – as the department writes – many have little confidence in the Environment Directorate and in predatory wildlife subjects. A name that in practice relieves political leadership of the burden of being a body of complaint is convenient to the Council of State, but it is not democratic. Therefore, any future complaint subject must also be anchored in the composition of the Storting, in the same way that the regional denominators have anchored in local election results. Finally, the structure of the day must be maintained. It ensures legitimacy and local administration within the established framework of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e3938	How we look at the world varies from person to person, and how we look at Norway's long-range country as parties is different. Major changes in our time need to be met with less distance, because distance between, for example. rich and poor, urban and rural areas, and the distance from education and training, help to weaken our opportunities. People and competences are values that we need to invest in to take Norway further. It is said that wise from harm becomes one who is wise. The turnout of the government parties at the municipal and county elections clearly shows that people want a different direction to solve the challenges we face. The centre party is continuously working for this alternative direction, with confidence in people throughout the country. The government seems to be most concerned with bringing down new selections, where – no matter what the problem is – merger is the solution. Mergers and structural changes are risk sports. Now, not only popular governance is to be brought together on fewer and larger units, but also judicial power and educational institutions — among other things. Distances are increasing. We know that higher education is becoming more important and more important. New knowledge, new businesses and new technologies are part of the solution to take our social responsibility for getting people better lives and services close by. Regional research and development create values. Decentralized education is important in most of our country for people to have access to a study offer, and it is well known that most of the students do not leave the country where they grew up to study. When applicants and graduates have a strong impact on the economy of institutions, the conditions of institutions have been laid down. Distances are increasing. Several new counties will start to work in 2020, where neither voluntary merged nor coercive counties have been given many new tasks. In addition, one of today's core tasks, namely admission to higher education, will be taken from the counties. At the same time, the structure of secondary education must be re-established and new curricula introduced. New curricula also receive primary school. In both the counties and the municipalities, more resources are needed, not less. More time is needed for municipalities and their tasks, not for mergers and money laundering in the form of new administrative buildings. The teacher's recruitment has to go up. Education and competence through long lives will be close to people throughout the country. Investing in people is investing in the future. Distances have to be shorter. The solution of the centre party is proximity and trust.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e3951	The Earth is about 5 billion years old. The eyesticker is about 200-300 million years old. Human beings are about 200,000 years old. The car is only 120 years old. I'm 65. The government, with Solberg at its head, has been sitting for 6 years. I think the representatives get the idea. It is quite recently – about yesterday – in the history of mankind, not to mention in the history of the globe, that we have managed to destroy so much, especially after the car arrived, the plane arrived, oil was found, and technology helped us so much to destroy our environment that we had trouble, that humanity is now facing two enormous existential challenges. One is climate change. There have been many mentions here today, and I will not go into the details of it. The other is the loss of natural diversity. One species – man – is the one that threatens a million other species. Each of these threats is so serious that they've got their own panel under the flag of the United Nations. I have lighted with light and light in this government's six-year-old policy – in each budget, in each throne speech, also in this one – after strong grips that respond to these challenges, but no. Or iodine, there are some spooky grips about which the Storting largely agrees, and which look nice in the exhibition window. It's electric cars – people come from far away to look at Norway. Elfs are great things – SV cheers on it too. Rainforest bets and better insulation requirements for buildings are good, but they are too small. It's too small to count on large fractures. Quota purchases and rainforest billions can also be considered as a given type of yield. We buy ourselves away from the responsibility here at home. When we go into these really big emission factors, it's all the same thing as before. In the climate sector, I may not need to mention oil and gas, where extraction and exploration continue as before, partly more than before. It's one third of our emissions. Then we have transport. It's also a third. There's also a lot going on like before. Large motorway expansions come very often before the railway, at best at the same time. We see it everywhere, and it's part of the government's highway operation. On the nature sector, the nature panel – after going through a whole bunch of publications, thousands of scientific publications – says that there is a major problem with land use. Here, the government is also going the opposite way. I can elaborate on that a little bit more in the next article.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e3966	Managing responsibility is the foundation of Right-wing policy. We have a responsibility to manage resources in a good way and deliver society in good condition to the next generation. We need to find solutions to the challenges facing people and society today. We need to prepare for tougher economic times, while helping to resolve the climate crisis. The need for health and care services will increase, while we see oil revenues falling. After six years with a civil government, we see many good results of the policies that have been pursued. Road and track are being developed at record speed. The field of research and innovation is significantly strengthened. The economy is going well, especially in the districts. Many new jobs are created, and unemployment is falling. Students learn more at school, health cows go down, prison queues are almost gone, and there is considerable commitment to police and defence. The county council in Agder said that the municipality economy has become much better, no municipalities are on the ROBEK list, and that cooperation between the county officials is much easier with a new structure. I repeat: no municipalities in Agder are on the ROBEK list. We've been through a election that shows that the Right is still the country's second largest party, and over half a million people voted for us. We thank you for that, and we're going to work every day to show ourselves this trust worth it. In spite of all the good results, we see that the Center Party on every occasion contributes with fear and black paint. Nothing will change, even if the world changes. Although the police say they need stronger professional environments to deal with serious sexual crimes against children online, the Center Party will return to small offices with few employees and limited opening hours. And even if judges say that District Courts are too small to handle, for example. Nevertheless, the Centre Party will maintain today’s structure, which could have dramatic consequences for the wider life of both children and adults. The Children's Ombudsman says the same thing. Unfortunately, we also see that the Workers' Party has left its role as responsible governing party and follows the Centre Party on this line. I think both parties will meet themselves at the door on the day they may have to take responsibility and translate words into action. It is easy to mobilise resistance to change, but change is imperative to preserve a safe and sustainable welfare society. We're not changing to change. We're changing to preserve.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e3986	Traveling around and talking to people is the most important and exciting thing in our work as politicians. It also helps us remember who we work for: the people. Having an ideological framework for thinking is important, but not more important than reality, because policy development must be based on the reality of people, and we must be careful not to become dogmatic. So you don't have to construct a reality that fits into your own framework, but rather, you have to take people's problems seriously. That's why I'm worried that this government doesn't see what they should see. They don't see the uprising in welfare. The people's, and especially women's, protests against centralisation and health businesses are examples where we have still witnessed unjust processes and decisions affecting patients in both the city and the district. The government lacks direction and measures to achieve a democratic model. We have not yet seen this government grant more money to the hospitals, and everything indicates that this trend in government's hospital policy is going to continue. It is also alarming to see that the government is deducting the weakest – ill, ill, ill, chronicle – benefits. The insurrection of redundancy money is a good illustration of government policy. At the same time, the government is voting against SV's proposal to evaluate the consequences of their own cuts, because they don't want to see people's reality. It is also alarming to see that the government is constantly pushing patients forward on medical issues. The last thing we witnessed is migraine medicine. The state budget for 2020 announced that migration medicine Aimovig will not be available on blue prescription. That is, patients themselves have to pay NOK 5000 a month to get the medicine. In the last few days, we've heard of people taking out loans and selling their house. If it doesn't contribute to social inequality, I don't know. The Minister of Health has previously talked about excessive prices in the pharmaceutical industry. Let me just say that he's right, and it's commendable that he's talking about it, is critical to the pharmaceutical industry and wants reduced prices. But we can't push the patients in front of ourselves if we never have so much faith in competition. And at least we need to have measures to ensure that the sickest patients offer a blue prescription. That's why I think it's time for the government to take off their ideological glasses and look at people's everyday lives – for immediate action for those with the most needs and a new direction in Health-Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e3993	A good school gives students the skills to master and create their own future. Ever since we've been in government, the Right job is to create a school that offers opportunities for everyone, and that makes a positive difference for the students, because we know that education is a good investment to prevent exclusion and poverty. The secondary school has a specific responsibility to ensure competence for future societal development and innovation. The school shall prepare students for participation in education and working and social life, and the school offer shall help students to apply their skills and obtain a good basis for future career choices. School-Norway consists of a variety of different lines you can apply for in higher education. With free school choices, each student will have the opportunity to choose what he or she thinks is right. With free choice, the possibility of students from e.g. Hurum in Buskerud can apply to Frogn secondary school in Akershus, or that students living at the Klöfta have the opportunity to enter music, dance and drama in Lillestrøm. Perhaps students from Lillestrøm will have the opportunity to apply to Greyer in Sarpsborg, and those who live on the Skedsmo Cross will be allowed to apply to Nannestad and learn about aerodynamics and aerospace. That's why right in government jobs to introduce free schooling in all states. We believe that the students themselves should be able to choose which school they want to apply for, and that freedom of choice must weigh heavily. Today, it's up to the states themselves to decide if you want free schooling. So in the Week you have Akershus, who has free school choices with entrance zones, and Buskerud and Østfold, both based on the primary school principle. The new platform recently presented by the Red-Greens in the Week ensures the principle of primary school, a principle that not only gives students the right to go to secondary school, but locks them to what if the line the student wants to go on, is offered at the secondary school. This makes it difficult for students who want to change the environment, and it gives students less freedom of choice in education — a principle in which students alone decide where to go to school, rather than taking into account the fact that students are old enough to be able to make a reasonable assessment. The red-green parties see it as their mission to be a counter-power to today's government. Right-wing jobs for the most decisions to be moved down to those concerned, and in this case there are students. It must be possible for a student after 10 years of schooling in the same environment to choose something else — whether it is an exciting line or to change the environment and make new friends. For any reason, there is no other than the student himself who knows this best. For the right, it's more important to put the student ahead of the system.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e4006	I have to take the first opportunity I'm up here to say that I love municipalities and all the amazing things that happen there, because there's actually a lot going on. This is probably not new, but it is in the municipalities that we all live our lives – absolutely all our lives. That's where our children grow up, that's where our parents get old – and that's where we're all going to have a good life. In too many municipalities, unfortunately, teachers and health care employees say that they do not get the days to go. Then we need more employees. It costs money, and here the government is failing Norwegian municipalities, schoolchildren and the elderly. For SV, district policy is about modern communities where safe and good jobs are created, and where people are close to school, hub, jobs and many activities. There must be a high quality of kindergartens, schools, health services and cultural services throughout the country. Quality costs, and therefore SV proposed over 5 billion. kr more than the government of the municipalities in the treatment of the municipal bill in ours. The county councils are also likely to get less in 2020 than they did in 2019 with government policy. There was a large reduction from the Ministry of Local Affairs. The government's budget cuts will affect high school students, regional development funds, culture and museums and all those who depend on transport, whether they drive on the state roads by car or bus, or by ferries. So to something else: Yesterday the government boasted that there will be few asylum seekers in Norway. According to the UN, there were 70.8 million refugees at the beginning of 2019. Of these, 29.4 million fled across a border. 41,3 million are fleeing in their own country. People who have fled because of natural disasters are not included in the figures mentioned. So these are going to add up. It has been estimated that 17.2 million were driven by natural disasters in 2018. It is the countries in the neighbourhoods that accept most refugees and take the greatest burden. Close borders in Europe and narrow borders in Norway mean that there are historically few asylum seekers coming to Norway, while countries such as Greece, Cyprus and Malta receive most first-time asylum seekers. The SV believes that Norway can accept a higher proportion than we are doing today, and relieve countries that are at a disadvantage. The municipalities – which I then love – have built up both the competence and the capacity to implement integration and housing. And many municipalities want to receive more because it has so many positive effects on the community. Finally, I would like to mention that SV will support the Greens' proposal to bring home the sick four-year-old in Al-Hol, together with his sister and his mother. The boy is very sick, he's almost five years old. And let it be clear: mothers who are returned with their children can be punished when they come to Norway. Norway must take responsibility for its own citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e4021	In fact, in several policy areas, there are some good formulations in the Common Era. The challenge — or problem — is that the government in its practical policy does not exactly follow up on its own throne speech. In the last few days, we've had two investigations, one on the courts and one on the tax system. The Kraft Tax Committee, an order selection from the government, where the parties were unable to attend, delivered their cancellation the other day. I have moved on the outside of this house today and participated in a seminar on the power tax selection together with about 300 others – most of the represented district Norway. The notifications were in line with the Workers' Party's view on the selection proposal, namely that it is a crucial principle that, when natural resources are used, part of the value creation should remain local. So for the Workers' Party, it's not up to us to break the social contract we have for the hydropower. Only for my own county, Eastfold, will the proposals from the sample remove about 50 million. kr per year – money that benefits the inhabitants. In this way, it is fully possible to agree with the approximately 300 participants in the seminar on the current power tax range. They did not ask for the proposals to be scrapped, they asked for the proposals to be mashed. Then we also received proposals for a new court structure, where the closure of, among other things. The hedge and Frøland are right inside, where they believe that this should be moved from Miesen to Ski. The challenge is not first and foremost that the Heggen and Frøland districts are located on the Wysen in the inner Eastfold, the challenge is that the courts are starving. There are long queues for the victims of crime, and criminals are now getting a penalty discount because it has taken a long time to bring the case up for judgment. Stortingsretten Ingerd Schou from inner Eastfold and Right says the following in the local view: ‘The rights to participate in making smaller cities what they are, together with a number of other institutions. In addition, Heggen and Frøland are objectively effective.’ And Schou continues: ‘It is underestimated to believe that competence does not exist or can be recruited to the inner Eastfold.’ And then the same big-time representative, Schou, ends up saying, ‘The last words are not spoken in this case.’ I fully support the Right Representative in this matter and fully support her statements in this. I hope that the representative Schou has a say in his own majority government. The aim of the Workers' Party is to bring the whole of Norway into use. The objective of the Workers' Party's regional policy is not to reduce and centralise. The goal of the Workers' Party's regional policy is to decentralise what we can, and to provide citizens with good and efficient services where they live and live. Then you can't drain the districts for money and competence, as the sitting government has a love to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e4049	Norway is a good country to live in and is still ranked as one of the world's best countries to live in. Those who are lucky enough to live in a country with good welfare arrangements, low unemployment and with a high population density may not think so often that it is not obvious. Maybe we should reflect more on that. Norway is a small nation with an open economy. We depend on being able to sell our goods and services in a larger market. It assures us of the EEA agreement. This agreement, which this year can celebrate the 25th anniversary, has made us feel good. It gives companies access to a market of 500 million Europeans, and we know that 70 pst. exports from the mainland to the EEA territory – 80 pst. whether or not an oil and gas calculation is performed. The agreement guarantees companies the same competitive conditions as other European enterprises. According to figures from Menon Economics in 2017, the export from my home country, Telemark, was two thirds to the EU/EEA – 10 pst. was directed towards the United Kingdom. In addition, the agreements guarantee free travel throughout the Schengen area, the same mobile prices in Europe as at home, Norwegian students have unique study opportunities, European health insurance cards ensure the same treatment for diseases as citizens in the EU country concerned and opportunities to live and work anywhere within the EEA area. The evening post had on 11 June this year a tenant entitled ‘People are getting more and more happy in the EEA. Politicians are following». It was with a background in Sentio's measurement for the class struggle and the nations, which indicated that 61 pst. would have voted in a referendum to keep the agreement. 25 pst. black no. Furthermore, they indicated that support has significantly increased since the first measurement in 2012. Then said 46 pst. that they would keep an appointment. If the upsurge is large among people, it is worrying that parts of the trade union movement seem to be equipping themselves to fight over the EEA agreements. In the newspaper Varden from my home country, Telemark, on Tuesday, write to the leader under the heading ‘Dangerous game about EEA’ about the Joint Confederation’s department in Telemark, which is very clear in its recording of the national meeting and thinks that ‘EEA is a self-imposed coercive street with which we should get rid of as soon as possible!’. Let us hope that other parts of the trade union see the importance of the EEA Agreement. Hopefully, the chaos around Brexit also helps to make it visible that it is not so easy to replace the EEA Agreement with free trade agreements. Right will be the guarantor of the existence of the EEA Agreement, in order to ensure Norwegian jobs and thus strong, sustainable welfare societies.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e4066	I would like to raise a theme that is a heart child for me and for SV, and that has been worked on for many years by many around our country, namely the decentralised higher education. Good education and knowledge at all levels are important for building our entire country. In all professions, both private and public, it is important to have the right skills, as well as to give something to the individual taking such training. Can we now agree on how we do it, because this part of the education system really flows between many sectors, and maybe a little bit outside, and no one is quite sure who's responsible. The kindergarten and primary schools are the municipalities responsible for this. The secondary schools are located in the county. Universities and colleges are responsible for higher education, and formally they may be responsible for decentralised higher education in the latter, but they are not necessarily able to do so, or have given enough priority, even though many are good too. There are probably 60 different places where there are decentralised higher education today. They are essential for local and regional authorities to have the right and important competence for the public and private sector. Not least, professional training is very attractive, and there are many examples that without such offers there would be a shortage of teachers, nurses, socionomists, etc. The different decentralised training centres have largely arisen from the need that exists, and have been funded by, among others. municipalities, county councils of regional development funds, business and something from higher education institutions and universities. The issue is that a need for coordinators and facilitators to do so at a physical location is to become a place of study for such education. It's important that there's a study environment, even though it's not an ordinary college or a university we're talking about here. Can we now have a national plan for the decentralised higher education and local education centres, so that predictability, structural and economical can be achieved? It is essential for the development of both public and private, and not least for individuals who receive this offer. It also provides attractiveness for a place or region to provide such training for the establishment of private enterprises and public activities, such as Norwegian health archives at Tynset – thanks to all those who contributed there – but also in general in terms of migration. This must be in line with the bet of the government, learn all your life. This should be a matter for everyone to contribute to a good solution – the whole country and all political parties. So I want to challenge the state councils of Mæland and Nybø to put in place a race where we get to place decentralised higher education properly into the education system.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e4083	The EEA Agreement is a pillar of Norway’s relationship with Europe. It has served Norway well, not least district policy. Only in my region, the Inland, goes well and well 70 pst. of an export of approx. 27 B.C.E. kr to EU country. According to the NHO figure, this implies approx. 20 000 jobs. In the public debate on the use of alternatives to the EEA Agreement, market access is generally promoted. In the middle of the brexit fog, it's tempting to ask if a real believer believes that today Norway would have a more favourable trade agreement than the one we actually have in the EEA. The answer to that is obviously no to most people. It is also important to stress that the EEA Agreement is actually about much more than market access and exports: freedom of movement, research cooperation, educational cooperation, or the extensive standardisation of regulations in a wide range of areas are examples of conditions that strengthen Norwegian society and make everyday life easier for many of us. We are living at a time when the counter-criteria for international cooperation are emerging. For small nations like ours, it's not a good development, on the contrary. It is primarily the small nations that are served with good international institutions, which can ensure security and predictability, contrary to what has been the rule of history, that the great ones have been able to cope. In Europe, of course, this is about the European Union. The EU is today what the EU intended to be: a guarantor of peace between European countries and a tool for as much equal treatment as possible when it comes to rights and economic opportunities. In this, there's a lot of investment. And it's sad to see how many of the benefits that have been achieved are now being taken for granted, and that the counterpowers get wind in the sails without seeing the benefits that go with it. A possible investigation into alternatives to the EEA Agreement, initiated by a magnification or government, is difficult to read as something other than a strong signal that Norway wants a more loose relationship with the EU than the one we have. This will be a disadvantage in the ongoing diplomatic work in which Norway, as a non-EU member, remains at all times. The signals coming from heavy environments in the trade union movement are therefore alarming, not least in view of the influence of the trade union movement in the Workers' Party. It is the responsibility of the Workers' Party not to give in to internal pressure from the trade movement, but to say external pressure from an ever-growing Centre Party. There has been a broad consensus in the UK that the EEA Agreement works well for Norway. On this issue, we need to raise our eyes and stick to the long lines of Norwegian foreign policy and not allow changing wins and short-term political gains to undermine our opportunities in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e4104	We have a campaign behind us that, at least in Finnmark, revealed a great abstinence among people. Detention is linked to many factors, such as the coercion of Troms and Finnmark, frustration over the lack of increased reinforcement of the North Defense Force, helicopters to move south, state jobs to move out, exemplified by this week's proposal to remove two out of three District Courts in the country. That means you could have to go almost 50 miles, from the Kirkenes to the Alta, for a meeting in the district court. It merges into an image where the removal of skills workplaces from Finnmark and other districts becomes evident. This government has transferred responsibility for state fishing ports from the Coastal Agency to the county municipalities. It has in practice meant that the planning of new fishing ports has stopped. This type of planning is special competence and, as of today, hardly any of the county municipalities are ready for the demanding task for which they are responsible from 1 January 2020. The development of fishing ports is a critical infrastructure for the Norwegian fishing industry, and the way in which this field has been dealt with by this government is at an end. The government brazenly boasts that they are building roads at a record pace in Norway. Well, we in Finnmark notice very little about it. We only have one extension project left when Tana Bru is completed immediately, Skarvberg Tunnel. Rv. 94 against Hammerfest, although Frank Bakke-Jensen from Right promised realization in the previous election campaign. The gulf, which is also promised to be realised, lies along the E45 between Alta and Kautokeino, is racially dangerous and, to date, planned by the State Road Administration. New airport in Hammerfest is also waiting for clarification. Today's airport is too regular, and clarification is important for the oil and gas city of Hammerfest. The Labour Party expects Finnmark to have its fair share of the means of transport in Norway, but also that the State budget contains funds transferred to the county municipalities for the development of fishing ports. We're going to follow closely if the funds follow the new problems. Discouragement is a terrible feeling that does not produce anything good. The sentiment of many in District Norway is that all growth and development take place in urban areas, while resources are to be found in the periphery without the ringing effects being there, do not build the country. The Workers' Party's proud slogan 'By and Land Hand in Hand' from 1933 is still standing today, and is still our current policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e4121	It's going very well in Norway, but we don't rest on the laurels in the right. Because there are many challenges that need to be solved. If we are to maintain a good, sustainable welfare society and at the same time put in a higher gear to combat the climate crisis, we need to make some necessary adjustments. In the right, we want to convert and change to preserve. We want to stick to what makes Norway a good country to live in — a country with small differences, a country where we trust each other, a country where services are close to where people live. Sometimes reforms are necessary because there have been changes in our society over time. Fortunately, we do not live in a country that is sedentary. We live in a Norway that is developing and moving. Therefore, the systems we have set up need to be changed as development progresses. Changes and conversions take time, and a manageable batch must withstand difficult transitions without waving when conversion pains. Community reform is not about centralising power; it is about stopping the centralisation that is already taking place. Many smaller municipalities experience relocation and have problems delivering qualitatively good services. 70 pst. by the small municipalities in Norway, they are fully dependent on cooperation and inter-municipal agreements or purchases in order to provide services to the inhabitants, see below. a report from Telemarksforschung. And when intercommunal agreements are already being worked out and concluded with neighbouring municipalities on child protection, fire services and hospitals, is it not as good to go all the way out and become a larger municipality with a common town hall, a common councillor, a common rapporteur and a common municipal government? My home municipality, Asker, joins the municipalities of Røken and Hurum on 1 January 2020. There has been an exemplary and good process, and the inhabitants have been involved all along. I am proud to live in a municipality where the UN's sustainability goal is the framework for the new municipal plan. The services of the inhabitants of new Ashes will continue to be where people live. In Holmsbu there will be health care, home care, school and kindergarten. The same thing will be in Spike Town in the Smoke. It's terror propaganda to claim that community reunification means that people lose their services where they live. Only the City Hall, the City Council and the rapporteur plus some administrative services are merged. The inhabitants of Asker, Hurum and Røken have understood that they have a lot to gain from becoming a larger municipality. There was great scepticism there, too, at first, as it always is with big changes, but now people are positive. Most people believe that this is a good and correct decision, which they also stated in the autumn elections. The right-hand side, as the leading and largest batch, experienced high-record resolution, 43.1 pst. I'm happy I live in a municipality that's concerned about development, that has politicians who are forward-looking, who want to change to preserve.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e4138	For the Right in Government, it has been important to ensure a sustainable welfare society. That is why it has been important to get more people to work, to include everyone in society and at the same time to ensure that we meet the climate goals. In the county of Nordland, it goes down. This has been repeated several times from this pulpit, but it seems to have to be repeated many times before everyone takes it in. On my trips to Northern Ireland, I meet engaged business owners who, together with skilled employees, work every day to develop their business and secure jobs. The most important thing is that they do it in a climate perspective. Celsa in Mo in Rana employs about 500 people, directly and indirectly. They aim to cut the CO 2 emissions by 50 pst. by 2030. In recent years, they've invested 450 million. kr on CO 2 reduction and energy efficiency-enhancing projects. They have used the government's efforts at Enova, SkattenFUNN and research to co-finance these projects. The same image was presented to me at Elkem Salten, who is undergoing a large-scale conversion for energy efficiency improvement. They have also used important government-aided schemes and invested for about 2 billion. kr since 2013. The NOx emissions have been reduced by more than 40 pst. – equivalent emissions from 300000 cars. Then we have perhaps the most growing activity in the North, i.e. aquaculture. There is a lot of excitement here, both in traditional aquaculture, and not least in closed mercenary technology. AkvaDesign in Brønnøysund started in small areas with research and development concessions. Now they're about 40 employees and they have 34 closed compartments that operate on 6 different locations. No loop has been registered since its launch in 2012. This is innovation and environmentally sustainable investment in District Norway. For these enterprises in common and for most of the jobs in District Norway, they are dependent on the EEA Agreement. I say this to the factory director at Elkem Salten: saying that the EEA Agreement can easily be replaced by a trade agreement must be a lack of understanding of what it is. Each Salt exports more than 90 pst. of sales of more than 1,5 billion. kr. Without this agreement — which also helps to ensure cooperation in the environment, research and competences — Elkem would not be able to operate industry in Norway. In my question to the representative Gülsvik in the reply box, I asked him if the manager was wrong. Did I get an answer? No, no, no.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e4157	The content of the school is to be renewed, said the King yesterday, and the trade renewal is the biggest change in Norwegian school since the Knowledgelift in 2006. In the last 13 years, the world has become smaller. The land borders are less visible, and the world community has gathered on several common goals, such as the UN's Sustainable Development Goals and the Paris Agreement. To achieve these goals, a school is needed to show how the world’s challenges are linked. New curricula are an important step on the way to achieving this goal. The size has decided that sustainable development should be a priority multi-disciplinary theme in the new curricula. Knowledge of climate change is an important prerequisite for success in the green shift and for meeting the climate crisis, and we need to take responsibility and ensure that the new curricula meet the resulting national and global challenges. The overall part of the new curriculum states that sustainable development should be one of the three multidisciplinary themes of the school. This requires knowledge about sustainable development issues and their concreteity in the skills objectives of the subjects. However, in the government's draft of the new national curricula, the global perspective is absent, and sustainable development as a multidisciplinary theme has unfortunately lost its weight. In the proposal of the Directorate of Education, the basic subjects of Norwegian, English and mathematics do not have sustainable development as a multidisciplinary theme, nor is this theme reflected in the proposals for new skills objectives. This is highly critical, not least in the Norwegian and English fields, which are particularly well suited for discussing the most important challenges of our time. The challenges of the future do not have any borders. Climate change has shown us examples of this. Then it is unfortunate that the new curricula build a wall around Norwegian students and the society they will lead in the future. In spring 2019, 40,000 Norwegian students demonstrated for the climate. The students on the climate strike showed clearly that they want to take responsibility for the future, they want to do something for the future. They're global citizens. And global cooperation is required if we are to find solutions to the challenges we face in society.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e4171	In the throne it was shown that one of the goals of the government is that it should live and work people throughout the country. It's a goal that I hope and believe most people here are behind. Unfortunately, it is not enough to say that, it also requires action and instruments that make it possible. In the Nordic region, we are experiencing the opposite. Change in the income system has cut my county over a four-year period of nearly 460 million. kr, and the fact that there is an extreme force in the case of ferry and fast boat traffic is not taken into account. In addition, regional development funds have been cut sharply, and it goes without saying that this does not contribute significantly to growth and economic development. Several immigrants need to be included in the labour market through better integration, also called in the Common Era. I fully agree, and in Northern Ireland, especially in the smaller municipalities, we have been very good at integrating. We need more people, and we take care of those who come. Unfortunately, the government has decided that small municipalities should not now be allowed to settle refugees, so that the good appliances that are built up are now put down, and we are left with no good explanation. People are engaged in the policy that is being pursued, as the municipal and county elections showed. The reason is that residents in non-urban areas feel unvalued and almost threatened with closure. Earlier today, the municipalities of hydropower in Norway have discussed the proposal for new tax rules, a proposal that will take up closer to 4 billion. kr from the district municipalities. The investigation is characterised by the fact that the expert committee has not at all listened to either the industry or the municipalities, and the conclusion of the LVK, the Landssaman conclusion of the Vasskraftkommunar, is that it should be crushed. Another proposal is the abolition of District Courts. You might ask yourself, ‘ Is this how you want a geographical class distinction in the Norwegian legal state? ’ Finally, I would like to mention grants to volunteer centres. It has been decided that today's good regime should be amended and voluntary grants should be granted per capita instead of per capita, but the total sum should be the same. This could mean the hook on the door for a lot of centrals in the country, which in turn builds up our communities. It must be possible to listen to the people involved and see that you should turn around in this matter. Fortunately, there was nothing in the proposal to change the veterinary watch grant, and now it is expected that voluntary action will also be carried out throughout the country through the continuation of the current system. The level of closure we experience in Northern Ireland, and especially in parts of Helgeland, does not in any way depend on the eagerness of exploiting the values found along this gold coast in the north, both in aquaculture and in other areas. As in other circumstances, the government has to understand that it's not just about taking – you have to give a little too.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e4188	The size has now reopened, shortly after an attempt at a new right-wing extremism attack on Norwegian soil. This persuasion debate only takes place a few months after a Norwegian terrorist entered a mosque with the aim of killing. But based on the debate, we almost didn't think it happened. Neither in the census nor in the state of the kingdom message yesterday was the terrorist attack mentioned. Here it continues largely as before – instead of everyone discussing how this can continue to happen, what we can do to stop it, and how we can stand with Norwegian Muslims, who are now afraid. I'm embarrassed on behalf of this house, wailing over the signal it sends to everyone who looks to the country's elected representatives for security and for a settlement against hatred, heat and violence, but on the contrary, some representatives of power from a government party continue to use conspiratory expressions that suspiciously suspect Norwegian Muslims. I wonder what would have happened if Siv Jensen had gone to the VG just before the election and warned against carpentry differentiation of Norway. Would we have seen the same avoidance? I really hope not. There is no such thing as a paralysing of Norway. What exists is a sneak normalization of the outward right rhetoric and intellect. The limits of what kind of strings it has been allowed to play on have been moved ever further. At the same time, we see that right-wing extremities call for violence, practice violence and commit violence in Norway. Even declared neo-Nazi groups are allowed to hoard and hate minorities, as we have seen in my home country, Eastfold, and elsewhere in the country. So when Norwegian Muslims have asked for an action plan against Islamophobia and Muslim hostility for a long time, it would just be missing. Let there be a plan of new, concrete, priority and measurable measures to take right-wing extremism sufficiently seriously. Let the plan lead to action against Muslim hatred and right-wing extremism. Then, together, we have to make sure that the words we use, fight hate, heat and violence, and not nerdy under it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e4195	Let's see one year back, when the Stortinget was also gathered for the throne debate, when Greta Thunberg was just a name only the most avid climate activists had heard of. It feels like an eternity ago. In one year, a wave has washed over the world, a wave of hope, a wave of young climate strikers demanding action, which is afraid, afraid of their own future – with good reason. But at the same time they know that we can, if we want. We know what's going on. The technology is here. As former Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg said when he launched Norway's initiative to preserve the rainforest in December 2007, the technology to save the rainforest is known. The technology to leave a three standing, we have, it's just to put down the ax. The technology for leaving fossil energy in the ground is already here, it is too. It's just not putting the oil drills in new holes. That's enough. Every new report coming from climate scientists is suitable for taking hope from everyone. But that's when the climate-stripping students come with their posters, their recordings and their roars. The hope of Greta Thunberg gives us, will be standing as a milestone in world history, in line with Rosa Parks, the black lady who in 1955 refused to give up her seat to a white man on the bus in Montgomery, Alabama, in line with Steve Biko, the black anti-apartheid activist. Together with these are Greta Thunberg and her millions of climate-stripping students. Those who don't stand there are all the middle-aged men – for let's admit it, it's angry men – who for some reason have found that their contribution to the world's progress is to honor a Swedish teenager. When danger threatens, nations gather, they gather for common battle. That's what we have to do, gather ourselves into a common struggle for our common future. The climate crisis is our common challenge, and we can best solve it together. Therefore, my wish is for the government to come to Stortinget with a proposal on how we can get together for a common struggle for a green, new deal – a green, new deal for the environment, for justice, for jobs and for our common future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e4208	I'd say it's either political frantic, or it's an expression of complete historylessness, or maybe a combination of both. I then aim that representatives of the right parties in this Chamber today have allowed themselves to refer to the Gerhardsen period as the period during which the Workers' Party built the country through reforms. But today we fail, they say, we have changed political governance and political ability to see the whole, they allow themselves to say. I say, that they dare! The Gerhardsen period was an expression of a development of Norway which was opposed to the right. Both Gerhardsen personally, his government and the whole social development they represented were tried to combat by all the means of the right in Norway – not just by the parties, but by the whole of the total civility. They claimed we were communists. They said that in the debates here in this Chamber – that time. They claimed that the House Bank was an expression of organized communism – that time. But now they're saying that it was a good time for Norway, but that we're failing in today's situation. So it is a clear historical thread from that time until this debate, because they claim that we are now failing in our governance tradition. Then they add: and the party goes clearly to the left. That's some bad stuff. So this is the same way of operating that they did in earlier times. The truth is something completely different. What we're experiencing is that it's the part on the right that goes to the right. They have left their value-conservative platform, which, from a real point of view, actually defended the welfare state, while we now see a concrete willingness to build it down. And they can't be surprised that a social democratic party – which has the proud tradition we have in our history – says no to the privatisation of the health system, says no to gross centralization, says no to, of course, tax reliefs that are totally unreasonable, and says no to, of course, cutting off all welfare schemes to those who really need it in society. What kind of reforms is that for? There are anti-reforms, which bring Norway back, and therefore it is a political habit to invoke Einar Gerhardsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e4217	The President will recall that the expression ‘political recklessness’ has previously been cited as an incorrect parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e4222	With the Progress Party in government, all the simplifications experience in their everyday lives, both business and not least the ordinary citizen. The last simplification for the ordinary citizen, who has definitely become a hit, is digital driving licence – you can see that 670 000 downloaded it for the first day. Digitalization makes everyday life easier for most people. In 2014, targets were set to reduce costs for businesses and enterprises by 15 billion. kr by 2017. That target's been reached. Simplification, however, remains a high priority, and government measures to simplify and reduce reporting requirements will continue to save businesses for billions of dollars. The new goal is to simplify for 10 billion. kr in the period 2017-2021 and thus contribute to the creation of even more jobs throughout the country. It is noted that more jobs are created. In Northern Norway, developments have also been positive. The last Nordland figures show an unemployment rate of 1.7 pst, down from 2.9 pst. in 2013. Finnmark has an leave of 2.5 pst., against 3.5 pst. in 2013. Troms have a release of 1.6 pst, against 2.3 pst. Six years ago. Unemployment is now the lowest in many years. Growth in the economy is at a good pace. Norway is on track. Norway is doing well, both in central and districts. For many decades, there has been little development and creation of new jobs in the northernmost part of the country. Now more and more look to the north. After six years with the Progress Party in power, there is greater optimism and belief in the future in the north than in a very long time. We're setting conditions for growth in the north. We see it in the oil and gas industries, in the mineral industry and in the fisheries and maritime industries – three industries that are going to be of particular importance to the nation of Norway and not least to northern Norway in the years to come. It contributes to the strength of other industries in the north. We see a clear twist in the activities – where most of it happens in the north. The obvious growth in the north makes the Center Party's constant accusations of centralization groundless. Of course, such growth, investment and optimism also create some challenges. There is investment in larger fishing vessels, which means that we must also invest in developing fishing ports so that the new larger vessels can continue to deliver their catches and continue to develop well. Last week I was at the coastal and port conference in Honningsvåg, and according to senior adviser Eirik Selmer at the Finnmark County Municipality, the last few years have been very positive in terms of developing the fishing ports, especially in Finnmark. So the planning has apparently not stopped, as the representative Ingelill Olsen asserted. It provides a good starting point for transferring the fishing ports to the new regions. We're setting conditions for further growth in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e4237	Abuse and violence in close relationships is a major problem, both for the individual and for society. The use of violence does enormous damage to the victims, and lack of protection from the state represents a violation of fundamental human rights. It is therefore very worrying that we have a government that is paralysed on this issue. On the government's guard, the big cracks in police work are linked to violence in close relationships. In the area of family violence, the police report an average clearance of 33 p.m. That means that the entire 67 pst. by all things not being resolved. There are people behind these numbers. In these figures, women and children become lawless in Norway. In these figures, the great community fails its duty to allow everyone to live a free life, free from violence. Instead of providing effective measures to combat this societal problem, the government is implementing a police reform that addresses a lot of resources without providing the results we need. The lack of protection affects several thousand people in Norway every year. First of all, it hits the most vulnerable – children and women in vulnerable situations. This is why the UN Women's Committee has criticized Norway for not being able to protect women from the violence and abuse of men. The lack of political will from the government helps us not to be closer to a society where all people are protected from violence. One of the many measures that need to be put in place is more resources for police work against violence in close relationships. Police also need help to prioritize. Therefore, SV has proposed to earmark funds for the investigation to ensure that the police have the resources they need. In addition, we have proposed the introduction of governance tools, as a target, for police work on violence in close relations. It is not detailed police management, but help to prioritise, as the government already does in police work on returns. Finally, we cannot continue to fail women and children who are subjected to violence. Lack of protection from the State represents a violation of fundamental human rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e4248	We have a well-functioning democracy in Norway – with ever better Community solutions and rights for individuals. Yet, today we hear that the opposition struggles with foresight about how much better everything was before. Rematches, reversals and climate promises are promised that are not funded. Of course, it creates both expectations and uncertainties around our society. This does not promise well to create a sustainable and climate-friendly welfare society. Sustainability is especially about the green shift and new technology with environmental and climate-friendly opportunities that we have not thought about before. The government parties are pursuing a realistic rather than a symbolic climate policy. It is a policy that does not fluctuate the climate risk over the people, but that makes the people choose new, green technological solutions themselves. It's a policy that makes it easier, simpler and cheaper for people most of the time to make green choices, like that. to buy an electric car. Digitalisation and technological development have created the need for reforms that have produced good results for our country. We're modernizing where the red-green want to reverse. I notice a hard rhetoric from the red-greens. They claim, among other things: that private companies are welfare professionals, and that the government sells and centralizes our country. This appears to be both divisive and historyless and provides ground for protectionism. The districts are going down. The availability has almost never been lower. In typical district industries, such as: fisheries, agriculture, aquaculture, forestry and tourism are increasingly employed and new export records are being set. The problem now is to get enough people to get job vacancies. We can say that the only thing that goes down in the districts these days is unemployment. The red-green stamps private as welfare professionals and believes that the Norwegian community is only the public sector. I would therefore like to end by reminding the Red-Greens that the community is private individuals in both business and public sectors – it is you and me.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e4267	The Nordic region is a group of significant resources – resources that create jobs and large incomes to the community. But Nordland is also a large-distance state. Arbor, who manufactures particle boards in Hattfjelldal, has got a feeling at these distances. When over 30 p.m. of the areas of Inner Helgeland are bound by protection or proposals for protection, this directly increases the costs in the million class only in transport costs – for one of two particle board plants in the country. These are the costs that the company has to bear on its own account and they provide a distorted basis for competition. At the same time, there is a strong desire to centralise public jobs and institutions. The closure of the Nesna College is the closure of an entire community. There are people living in the whole of Northern Ireland, and we want it to continue to do so. Then we have to have services close to people. Good roads in both towns and cities are a prerequisite for ensuring growth, housing and value creation throughout the country. The municipality of Nordland owns 4 100 km of county road and at the same time has 25 pst. of the coast of Norway. And then 66 pst. North Norway's exports are coming from Northern Norway, and it goes without saying that there are a lot of goods to be transported. But this has become challenging under this government. In the last few years, the Central Party has proposed in Stortinget the adoption of a 10-year Stairway Escalation Plan. The proposal has been set at 1 billion. kr to country road. In addition, in the national transport plan, we have spent money on racial protection and tunnel protection on the county roads. What does the government do when they themselves say that SMEs and North Norway are their areas of activity, but at the same time work for a reduction in the whole region? It is high time that the government began to comply.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e4282	The statistics show us that things are going well in District Norway. The availability is record low, business flourishes with records for Norwegian seafood, Norwegian forestry and Norwegian travel. The transport appropriations of the times are linked to the city and built closer together, and there have never been fewer municipalities on the ROBEK list. These are facts that say something about the situation in Norway today. Some of our political opponents have chosen a rhetoric where they play on emotions and choose to forget the facts. The centre party has created a picture that there is a struggle city against land, and the party's protectionist stand in many cases is expressed through distrust of experts and resistance to international cooperation. It's no exaggeration to say that we are currently living in an uncertain world. Few know which countries are subject to criminal duty from the United States next month, and no one can say if the United Kingdom is in the EU or is outside, with or without agreement, in a few months. In such an image, it is important to remember that Norway is a small country with an open economy. It is therefore important to protect free trade and international committed cooperation. Therefore, it is important to warn against the EEA resistance we see in several opposition parties and in parts of the trade movement. 75 pst. exports from our districts to the EEA territory. Putting this agreement at risk in order to have a Brexit-like situation in Norway is extremely bad news for districts and jobs throughout the country. Therefore, I hope that just a lot of people in the districts will understand that the Central Party already today two in this session is proposing to weaken our relationship with the EEA. The government is not reforming to have anything to do. It's just changing to preserve the good in our society. Community reform is not about centralising power, but about stopping the centralisation that will otherwise take place. A thriving business is the best district policy, and then the focus must be on how to secure and build skills out there, not counting the number of town halls. Norway is changing, and then we must also be willing to change policy. Our task is to respond to tomorrow's challenges and not focus on yesterday's excellent solutions. Norway is still facing high migration needs, but the current situation is that it is not going to be helpful to pick up from a fragmented and low level of cooperation. The representative Gahr Støre even promised at the beginning of this debate that their job would now be a counter-power.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e4300	It's good to get back on track after a long absence from the main hall. It was an absence that was characterized by a long and extensive campaign. In the election campaign, I met many voters who are listed and who are actually replenished in terms of both lack of race protection, increase in tolls, reduced postal services and the danger of lack of access to both fixed phone and mobile phone coverage. Sometimes, in fact, several of these things happen at the same time. Among other things, the residents of Sokndal south of Rogaland could show me a half-depreciated telephone pole that hung in a copper wire. This line is the only access to telephony and network services in large areas along Fv. 1 in Rogaland. This error has been reported to Telenor several times and for a long time, without response and action. For the inhabitants, all of this is an image of a government without action and with a lack of control. The Labour Party wants the people of the whole country to know that they are valuable and that they are important. We would like, among other things: all shall be straight on broadband, in line with electricity and fresh water. The Labour Party will also actively manage the entire state ownership and fulfil the objective of ownership, namely to provide security for Norwegian jobs, to ensure the quality of national infrastructure and to build competences and jobs across the country. The working party will protect the Norwegian model, including the Norwegian working life model. The Labour Party believes that the Norwegian working life model must be exportable to other countries and regions. It is not the government’s task to import labour-life models that undermine Norwegian wage and working conditions, as right-wing parties will do, for example. through the establishment of the Post in Eastern Europe. The item AS has nothing to do in Poland and Slovakia. For this reason, the Workers' Party will have an active ownership of both wholly owned and partly owned state enterprises. The half-post in Sokndal will now be allowed to be an example of how many in Norway feel when they each day experience not being taken care of by the parties of the right-wing government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e4309	A hectic municipal election campaign is over, and most of us have traveled country and beach around to talk to residents and businesses. It's a pleasure to hear that most people are naked. It is going well in this country, and business is optimistic about the future. Along the west coast, where I have mostly had my way, it is a positive give and eager to contribute to the green shift, at a rate that we difficultly saw for us when the Right took over the government offices in 2013. In spite of Western fjords, shipyards are developing world-leading technology for future fossil-free speedboats. Brothers Aa in Hyen is one of the shipyards that sees a commercial potential in this development. With carbon hulls and battery power, they raise the high-speed boat segment from being an environment response to becoming emission-free options at sea. In conjunction with several coastal municipalities, teams have made demands for forward-looking collective solutions on both sea and land without the use of fossil energy. This will lead to innovation and development. Aker BP, Kværner and Equinor are now positioned to enter the captivating waters with floating sea winds, which can become our next industrial adventure. In Sunnhordland, the ZEEDS grouping aims to look at the entire value chain, from the production and distribution of future clean energy sources, based on current from sea winds with ammonia producing energy, to an upgraded fleet that can use these offshore energy stations. We electrify Norway – ferries, cars, construction sites, construction industries. We'll order new propeller planes for delivery in 2030, and they'll go on electricity. Ports are given shore power, and circular economy is expanding. And why is this happening? Well, because this government has had long-term strategies for the transformation of our entire business life to become greener and more resilient. Through our policy development, we have focused on this one – we need to turn our business to build up around the renewable society. At the same time, this suggests that we also in future keep our position as world leaders before maritime shipping. This is done through the education system, through tools, research councils and innovation projects, through catapults and pilot projects, through the development of social structures and long-term policy development and sustainable framework conditions. Business demands for simplification in red tape and better infrastructure are met by measures. Difor bets me among others. on the free E39, we digitize, and we streamline. We have done a lot, but we still have a job to do. And yet we have a little bit ahead of us before we can say that we're a free society. The right is therefore going to do more of what we see working for a better climate and business transition.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e4330	I was born in 1994, and that was a joyous year. Not because I came to Earth, which was so fun for me, but because the United Nations Convention on Climate Change came into force and made the framework for more systematic climate cooperation between the world's countries. Unfortunately, that wasn't enough. Global emissions continued to rise and biodiversity fell. There was a lot of talk, and there was little action. Now we don't have time to wait, and that's why I'm very happy that the government prioritises climate and sustainability. Since we took over, the emissions have gone down. At the same time, we know that we have to do far more in the future. Then it is that we do not save the world with shame, but we do it with action, technology and global cooperation. With the Right in Government, Norway will take our share of responsibility. Let me draw a couple of examples. First, we make our renewable energy, for more water, offshore wind, solar to the many houses and homes and a separate hydrogen strategy. We're betting on carbon capture and storage to bring down the emissions from the industry. We ban the unnecessary disposable plastic and double the investment for cleaner seas and the UN Green Climate Fund. We also join the EU's climate cooperation, which obliges politicians across Europe to carry out real emissions cuts as monks, and it remains record-breaking with the Right in government for trains, buses and bicycles, so that people can come forward faster and more environmentally friendly. One of the fresher news is a zero-emission fund for industrial transport of 1 billion. kr and a separate strategy for greener shipping. On the whole coast, shore-side electricity is now being built that reduces emissions to air and sea. We also take grips that aren't necessarily popular, but equally very important. Next year, the CO 2 tax will increase. Contaminants are to be paid and green is to be selected. At the same time, we are lowering the tax on labour and increasing efforts on research and greening investments through Enova and Nysnø Climate investment in Stavanger. This makes Norwegian business more competitive and can create more green jobs. The world needs countries that go ahead and show that it is possible to convert to a greener economy while at the same time taking care of jobs. With the right behind the rudder, Norway is such a country. We need to stop emissions and not progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e4348	The government uses advice and choice to lay the foundation for its own policies — a policy that cracks in all directions. The government is not a casual victim of experts who prescribe centralisation policies. The government has a pretty good idea of what comes out at the other end when they appoint their selection. This was also the case when they set down the power tax selection. The task of the Kraft Tax Committee was to examine and clarify whether a possible change in the tax on hydropower could contribute to more efficient operation, as well as to increase power and revenue. The selection has been bombed at all points. Instead, they propose measures leading to the deletion of District Norway, which will change much of the Norwegian community. They've gone over the main problem and gone into the municipal tax system. This is historyless and remote. Through this proposal, the State will channel revenue into itself and with a pen stroke remove a hundred-year tradition of concessional arrangements. They break the social contract and continue and increase the rent tax from 37 pst. to 39 pst. The zeros out the statutory arrangements for municipal income – concession power, concession fee and property tax. Municipalities that have issued and intend to provide valuable natural resources from an eternity perspective shall be in the hands of lua and ask the country for compensation by means of a natural resource tax. The natural resource tax is a compensation that is part of the State income system, which is deducted from the framework transfers that municipalities receive from the country. This is an arbitrary system that depends on political will. This proposal removes direct income from communities around the country. The proposal will lead to a betrayal of district and hydropower-producing municipalities. The state is weakening the possibility of an offensive expansion of Norwegian hydropower resources. They weaken the ownership of those who have developed clean renewable energy — this in the middle of a climate debate that has as one of its main objectives the promotion of the development of renewable energy. A common feature of these expert committees appears to be that those covered by the amendments are not included. The municipalities of Kraftkommuner did not enter the power tax committee, which concluded that the municipalities would lose income. Expert selection is not a party selection, the answer was the Landssaman conclusion of Vasskommunar, LVK. The government has already centralised basic public services such as police and ambulance. Now the Progress Party and the Right also want to transfer the municipalities' power money to the Ministry of Finance in Oslo. For the Upland part, the income loss will be nearly 200 million. kr per year. If these proposals had been a reality, I am reasonably sure that the new power expansions that are now under way in Lower Otta and Rosten in the North Gudbrandsdal would not have been realised – an investment of over 1.6 billion. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e4363	It's definitely going well along our coast, and we have a lot of natural advantage for further growth. We already see that the value creation is large and the unemployment rate is very low. It gives us a good starting point when we're going to build on viable communities throughout our country. But these opportunities alone do not create safe jobs or a future for our kids. We need a policy that says yes to opportunities along the coast, and we need an education system that gives mastering and skills to our kids. The right-wing government has been driving both to make use of the opportunities and not least to invest in education and research. With Norwegian technology and competence, we have managed to reconcile the safe and sustainable use of nature with growth and more secure jobs. The last years' bets have also proved that it is not just going well along the coast, it is also going well in Norwegian school. More and more learners, fewer falls from, more and more teachers have depression in their teaching subjects, more and more go out as master-educated teachers, and as much as every magazine applicants for higher education wants to be teachers. In higher education, we see that more people take vocational training and more people get a place to learn. Several companies are researching, and records are set in research and development. So we're still going to set a record, and the arrows are going in the right direction. Then it's scary to listen to the opposition here today that will change course. What kind of policies they will pursue is difficult to predict, but with Red, SV and MDG emerging and the Workers' Party moving to the left, more people should take note of the potential anti-diversity policy of such a political alliance. In sum, they are against breeding, which provides more secure jobs and more sustainable food. They are against the extraction of minerals, which provide more safe jobs, and which are necessary for the green shift. They are against growth in tourism, which provides more secure jobs and contributes to activity in large and small communities. And they are against the absorption of more gas, which provides more secure jobs, and which can replace European coal power plants, to mention something. In the field of knowledge, the red-greens in their time showed little will — neither to bet on more teachers nor to bet heavily on further education. Now they're against the competence requirements for all teachers, and they're in charge of a policy where it's not so important that all of our kids are taught by teachers who are immersed in the subject. Where the Right and Government focus on more competent teachers and knowledge, schoolmates get the attention on the left. Where the red-green quarrels in the back room, they would like to complain that we have dissent on the bourgeois side, but at least the political course is not uncertain and does not crack in every direction. We have a bad course. We use the opportunities here in the country, we give our kids a school of knowledge and mastery, we equip business against global competition and create growth, development and a good future for our coast and for the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e4374	I would like to begin by commending the wise words of the President-in-Office of the Council on our democracy at the solemn opening yesterday. We must build confidence in democratic traditions, democratic gamblers and our institutions. The increase in polling is a reason to be glad, but in today's debate, all the speakers from the four government parties act as if there has not been any electoral campaign or elections. The setback for all four games did not appear to have made an impression. Not on one point or another that the government has a lot of reason to change. Although the Central Party has made a good choice, I often meet people who disagree with us, but the speakers from the government party only hit people who agree with them. The police, 80 pst. think the reform is bad, they only hit people who boast of the reform and say it is good. Nor do they meet anyone who disagrees with the coercion of states or municipalities. These people who never meet, of course, don't listen and don't take seriously either. The government party obviously has the fasitivity and only needs to talk to itself and those who agree with them. I thought the lack of audacity to the fact that a choice has been made that says something about people's perception of this direction is quite alarming. Of course, the people shall be hired, but the people shall know their people also, and they shall listen to their people. That's how we build a democracy where everyone is put, heard and taken seriously, and that's how we also build community and trust. The other thing that made the impression yesterday was the preika to press at the Bishops' Meeting, Helga Haugland City Birds, in Oslo Cathedral. The theme of Preika was mercy – how we deal with others. I believe in a community between people based on respect and trust. One word says that shared joy is double joy, and shared sorrow is half sorrow. We're small alone. We'll get security in the crew. Many small communities add up to larger and larger communities. This community also needs institutional frameworks and meeting places — schools, meeting rooms, churches, cultural institutions, concert venues, pubs, mosques, etc. This community must also give room for inequality and a hand to those who fall outside. Mercy shall not stop at its own door, local border or national border.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e4385	In the languages of the throne, the government said: ‘The government will maintain a society with small differences and trust between people’. And on the other hand, ‘The fight against poverty and exclusion shall be carried out.’ One of the most important areas in which we can really contribute to equalising inequality and creating a society of small differences is health. Therefore, the Workers' Party is strengthening the economy of our common hospital by 3 billion. kr per year. That is why the Workers' Party has proposed significant extensions to the dental social welfare systems, because we believe that everyone should have the opportunity to receive the necessary dental treatment. That's why we've invested in school food, because we don't think any children should go hungry at school. Only by investing in the community can we bring about a society with small differences and combating poverty and exclusion. The right hand rule's prescription is different. State Council Höie has chosen a course where my hospital, Sørlanden Hospital, now has to save 178 million. kr. It hardly provides faster and better patient treatment to more people. The right administration has chosen tightening of dental health benefits rather than extensions. The right-wing government also does not think it is a problem that an estimated 60,000 children and young people do not come to the school. If you want small differences and smaller exclusions, there are no more private solutions. If the size of people’s wallet or health insurance issues is to determine whether to get the best health services, there are also greater differences, not less. A little while ago, a drug came that can help patients with migraine who are unable to function in their everyday lives. One monthly dose costs approx. NOK 5000. Too many people work that medicine so well that they get back to work. In May, I challenged Council of State Höie to approve this medicine on blue prescription. He said, wait for the state budget. Now the leak has come, and the Right and Hoie don't have the money to help these people. Because too many people are hit by the migrants, the total cost is over 100 million. kr. Then it's a budgetary question, and then the government can't afford to give priority to making the sick fresher. Treasures to make the rich richer are more important. The paradox is that if migraine medicine reduces sick leave by a couple of days each month for each patient, much of the costs have been saved again — not to talk about the benefits this brings for the quality of life of the individual and the families around them. Now, instead, the stories come from people who say that there is medicine, but they can't afford to pay it, because they can't work without it. The moral of government policy seems to be making it difficult enough to be sick, people get healthy. It also seems to be going in the same track when it comes to notified cuts in redundancy payments and retirement payments. The term ‘being healthy and rich is better than being sick and poor’ is rarely matched better than under this government. The country needs a different course, where we're going to help the sick get better before we help the rich get richer. That is what will give little difference in Norway, not in the policy of the right-wing government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e4415	Three years ago I met as being under the throne debate, and at that time I was very concerned about the signals the sitting Right-wing Party government sent to the districts on a case-by-case basis. It was quite consistent that the little ones lost while the big ones used to. Then it is probably possible to understand my frustration as I now see three years later that nothing has changed since then. One of the most frustrating is that it is very difficult to reach the political ambition behind centralisation. The districts are affected by cuts and closures, often carried out as purely symbolic decisions that are alleged to make the country more effective. But are we really becoming more efficient by longer travel routes and less offer locally? The government drew a new Norway map without first thinking about what kind of tasks the states should have. Nothing was seen in connection with the already existing patchwork of state regions that we have in the country, and the offer to people in the regions has come in second row. When we finally start to see that new tasks are coming to the states, it's not going to follow with implementing means. The same applies to municipalities. There will be new tasks and new demands, but not enough money. The districts are hit hardest. We saw the same thing this week. The Court Commission proposes the massive abolition of property rights after the government has again ordered a new structure without considering its content. The government seems to think that bigger is always better, and that small units don't have the ability to perform on the same line as the big ones. This is a direct mistake, and the districts are hit if you can't get rid of this thinking. The last few weeks may also show that even the government could have become a little more effective if it had been a little bit smaller. Namdal District Court, which has now been proposed, has good procedural time, high case resolution, good efficiency and, in addition, few appeals – all evidence that the small court operates well, regardless of size. Digitalisation can also help to strengthen the professional environment more, even if people sit physically in different places. These and other solutions could and should be discussed in connection with the structure, but the government did not want that. It is important that we constantly consider how the sum of different decisions turns out. Now, districts are losing in reform after reform, and if development continues, we will soon be struggling to put the whole country into action. We don't deserve that. If town and country go hand in hand, we'll create winners all over the country. We stand stronger when the whole country stands together and everyone moves in the same direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-10-03.ana.ud275e4432	It was then 22 o'clock, and Stortinget takes a break in the negotiations. Tomorrow the meeting starts at 9 a.m. and the first speaker is Prime Minister Erna Solberg. - The meeting's been cancelled.
