ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-15.ana.ud296e39	The called alternates, for Hordaland County Leif Audun Sande and for Oslo Camilla Strandskog, now take the seat. The representative of the Bears Moxnes will present two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-15.ana.ud296e52	On behalf of myself, I would like to make a proposal about the Libya war and the use of Norwegian defence powers abroad, and a proposal to prevent the misuse of allowances for large-scale representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-15.ana.ud296e57	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-15.ana.ud296e64	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Svein Harberg. – Other proposals are not available, and Svein Harberg is unanimously elected president of today’s meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-15.ana.ud296e84	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, three rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-15.ana.ud296e93	The reason for this proposal for a representative is that the county council in Finnmark would not follow the decisions on the association of Troms and Finnmark counties taken by the Stortinget for a long time. A consequence of this could have been that under the current rules it would not be possible to hold elections for the county of the new Troms and Finnmark. The proposers and a fairly broad majority in this Chamber agree that holding elections is a fundamental principle, and that it would not be an acceptable situation if we had ended up in what it could look like for a long time. We have a duty to ensure that elections to county councils and local government can be carried out. This is also true, of course, when the majority in a county council or local government opposes this. That this would be a problem in our country would hardly have been imagined by anyone, not even the big deal that once adopted the rules we have today in the law of division. The proposal we are now dealing with is short and good about closing a hole that has proved to be there. Among the parties in the committee there are slightly different opinions on how this should be handled, and I assume that the individual parties themselves present their views. In the following I will focus on the starting point of the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party. So our starting point is that the proposal submitted by the representative closes a hole in the law that is necessary. It is true, however, that the county council in Finnmark has gradually taken over the fact that a decision on the roll-out has to be followed, members of the common denominator for new Troms and Finnmark states have been appointed, and the electoral board is in place. Nevertheless, it's a point to have a law that has a comprehensive solution to the problem we've been facing, and we have to have back coverage even if similar situations arise. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party will therefore be in favour of the adoption of the proposed proposal. We have noted that the central party believes that making such a change through a representative proposal is special, and that the party criticises the government for not making the proposal as a common proposition. Reportedly, the government has received ‘four individual members from the government parties and the Christian People’s Party to promote a proposal for a representative’. It would have been interesting to know where they came from – I guess that's an assumption. In fact, for my part, I believe that my co-representatives have the ability to think independently and take initiatives even when your parties are in government, but it is possible that the Central Party has other experiences in this regard. I can agree that, in general, legislative decisions, which are to be taken in this Chamber, must be better established than is often the case for representatives. However, this is talking about what was an emergency that no one had imagined could occur. It is a simple provision that will in practice be a good welcome, and there is no one, except the Centre Party, who opposes the provision itself and that the matter has to be resolved. I would also like to stress that the regional reform has its origin in Stortinget, and that it is natural that the parties of Storting – inside and outside government – also ensure the implementation of the reform we want. It is from the Stortinget Regional Reform coming – this is where the regional reform also needs to be implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-15.ana.ud296e108	I think I'm going to wake up to the claim that it's not just a broad majority, as the case-rapporteur was about, but actually a unanimous magnification that concludes that elections are one of the cornerstones of Norwegian democracy. There is no one in this Chamber who has argued against the implementation of county elections and that the election is an important democratic institution. So to the proposal that we have to deal with. It is the Workers' Party's view that this proposal is strongly intertwined with municipal autonomy. It's a proposal that gives a very wide authority to the government. The rapporteur stated that this is necessary in order to resolve an emergency — which no longer exists. But he also admits that this is not a well - prepared proposal. Because it now responds to a situation that does not exist, and it gives a much greater authority than the justification given in the proposal for a representative, which is to resolve a situation related to a particular county merger, and is to be used only for the appointment of the electorate. As this legal text is now drafted, it gives a much wider authority to the government, and that is an example of what happens when you get this kind of bad political craft. The rapporteur himself said in his statement that the reason here is not actually to ensure the electoral process; the reason is to ensure the implementation of a regional reform that the majority wants. It then goes into the range of unwarranted measures to force an unwanted regional reform. Then we can agree that it's not the first time you've made legislative proposals in this room, but it's a little unorthodox. There has been no consultation, and it is, as I was about earlier, not a proposal that is very clearly defined. In a non-profit world, this problem had been thought through and solved before you got to the situation. There was no one in this room, either now or before, who had thought about the problem. For the Labour Party, we agree that it is important that we ensure that elections are conducted and that we do not put it at risk. That is why we have also supported the intention to have a safety valve when the situation we had before Christmas, actually existed. However, given that it is so poorly defined, and that the proposal is poorly addressed and strongly involved in the local People's Government, we have proposed a time limit for this provision, so that we can handle the elections that are necessary to be implemented in 2019. Unfortunately, the majority did not want to join it. They want to hold on by us now putting in place a new one, at the authority of the government, and overseeing the People's Government, which goes beyond just being able to appoint voters. We have opposed the regional reform, and especially the structural reform which has been imposed by force. That race is over. The majority have maintained and forced through their structural changes. We now see that all the county councils are preparing for the new forms of organisation they will have from 1 January 2020. It also applies in Troms and Finnmark. Now the job is to look ahead and make sure that the county councils are gradually getting more new tasks than we have mentioned. With that, I take up the proposal that the Labour Party is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-15.ana.ud296e127	The representative Eirik Sivertsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-15.ana.ud296e132	Today it is expected that the Storting will adopt a major amendment to the law of division without having been consulted or subject to normal legislative procedure. The proposal provides for the Ministry to be empowered to appoint the local and county councils to be merged if, after an expiry date, the general member concerned has not chosen the electoral board himself. There are also other powers. The central party considers that municipal and county self-government should not be restricted beyond what is strictly necessary in order to achieve national objectives. This proposal for a representative is a major step in this process of self-determination. As I said, the proposal has not been thoroughly investigated or consulted, and it is worrying. The proposal is also no longer relevant, as both Troms and Finnmark have elected their members as joint members. It's just another restriction of county autonomy. If the government wanted a change in law, it should have come to Stortinget with a billing proposal, not get four individual members from the government parties and the Christian People's Party to promote a proposal for a representative. Of course, this is not illegal, but nevertheless it is very unfortunate. As the representative Thommessen said, legislative decisions should in general be thoroughly investigated. This is not an emergency; it has crossed a long time ago. As I said, the issue is no longer relevant, nor will it be in the foreseeable future. The size has decided that good and voluntary processes should be the starting point for any changes in the structure. Any aggregations during the current ageing period shall be based solely on voluntary activity; it was established in the treatment of Document 8:2 S for 2017-2018. No one can imagine that such a situation can arise by voluntary aggregation. The Christian People's Party was one of the perpetrators to get this decision in place, and I want to ask the Christian People's Party now whether that is the way they stand at the decision that coercive decisions are not to be taken in the current period. And if they do, what do we need this change to? So the government has plenty of time to make a thorough investigation, send the proposal to public consultation and come back to Stortinget with a bill if they think such a change is imperative. Unfortunately, it was not done, and it is a pity that a proposal which leads to such a great intervention in county self-determination is treated in such a vote. Here's a speed over here with the harebump, as we'd say in my dialect. The proposal no longer has any relevance to the Troms–Finnmark merger, and as I said it will not be relevant for the next three years. The centre party therefore proposes to reject the proposal. The Workers' Party proposes to adopt a temporary law which will be repealed on 31 December 2019. The centre party does not support this proposal either, as we do not believe it is necessary to safeguard the right of citizens to participate in elections. The working party writes the following in the notes: ‘These members also consider that it will allow for any amendment of the ordinary law on the initiative of the Government in order to ensure the necessary powers before the next round of municipal or county mergers.’;» I hope the Workers' Party can clarify what they mean by this. Do they believe that this is a legislative change that is relevant to voluntary mergers, or do they believe that they will now go away from the decision on full volunteering on which they were involved and which they themselves strongly argued for when that matter was dealt with here in the Chamber? Finally, I would like to record the Centre Party and the SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-15.ana.ud296e156	The representative Heidi Greni has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-15.ana.ud296e161	This proposal was promoted at a time when one could see that it could be needed. There's reason to criticize the government for not having seen this before. It is in a way a maritime situation that has arisen, because poor processes have been carried out for the coercion of counties and municipalities. You haven't turned the processes around, so if you've realized that this was very unwanted locally, and so no strengthening of local democracy. However, the problem for the government – and for the Labour Party – is that now this proposal is no longer relevant. That's why there's no reason to support it. There may be grounds for the government to promote such a proposal — to have a consultation process and to implement a common legislative change — because it has been shown that such a situation can arise, at least if one intends to continue coercion of the counties and municipalities. But now it's not necessary. There are municipal and county elections for the autumn. Everyone has now done what they would like to catch up with this bill. And so it's done without a thorough process in advance. There is no desirable situation. It may be that gagging representatives promote legislative proposals that have not been investigated by the government, but most of them are promoted on the basis of e.g.: a NOW or a question that has been discussed and investigated for a long time. But here there is no reason to take an urgent decision, whether on a permanent amendment, as proposed by the government parties, or on a temporary derogation, as proposed by the Workers' Party. I therefore believe that none of the points in the proposal should be adopted. If the government believes that in the future there is a need to determine such a permit, we think it is quite fine that the government is doing that work. So until that representative, Mr. Greni, said, "Why would we need such an emergency home now, if no one plans to continue coercing states and municipalities?" It has adopted the Stortinge as the governing body for this period. There are several years until the next time there is a municipal and county elections where such a situation could arise again. That's why it's completely impossible to accept the explanation that this has to happen the way it is now. The reason why we in SV believe that there may be reason to look at this is what has been one of the main arguments of the government parties, namely to ensure that the population has the opportunity to vote in elections. We very much agree with that. But as I said, it's the process behind this that has made it into the critical situation that was a period, but now it's no longer there. For this reason, the SV will vote against both the government parties’ proposals and the Labour Party’s proposals – simply because it is not necessary to do so now. There is no situation for this urgent legislative proposal to meet. It is time to investigate this thoroughly and get back to Stortinget with it – if on a much more thorough basis than what you have today, you would conclude that such a basis would be necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-15.ana.ud296e176	When this proposal for a representative was put forward, it was extremely urgent. Nor should this hall be forgotten. At that time we had a meeting in Finnmark, which was very close to the deadline for putting down an election title so that we could make legal choices in Norway. It is now time for Storting's job to make sure that this is done. Then I am very happy that this acute situation is not there today. I think we have to rejoice over all of them. But we have no guarantee that an emergency cannot come back once in the future. It was actually a situation in which a county council could oppose several legitimate decisions in Stortinget. So it was a very special situation. Yes, the ideal thing is to make a bill, but the representatives who promoted this proposal were seriously concerned about the situation and about holding elections. The criticism of the government is quite incomprehensible to me, because this was a situation that developed, and it was not the government that would not be able to put down the common denominator and do the things that were to be done. That was a decision in the county council – we should remember that. Then I was challenged by the Center Party on this with coercive decisions. The Christian People's Party has always been in favour of coercion decisions on the aggregation of the regions, but against coercion decisions on the aggregation of primary municipalities. That's the decision we're still on. The last time we were gathered in this room, the Council of State actually also referred to it, that local government changes must continue during this period, but it should be based on voluntary solutions. There's a much bigger debate, and we're not going into that debate today, but it's at least a feedback. I would like to make it clear once again that the draft representative came on the basis of an emergency situation, and I am pleased that the emergency situation is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-15.ana.ud296e193	In June 2017, Stortinget adopted a number of mergers of municipalities and counties from 1 January 2020. The new municipalities and county municipalities are now being prepared throughout the country. 49 members in general are now doing the important work of planning for the future and assessing how the new municipality or county municipality should provide good services to its inhabitants. An important milestone is the municipal and county elections in September. The population will then choose for the first time who will represent them in the new municipal councils and county councils. Then, of course, it is absolutely essential that the citizens have this opportunity to cast their votes. The law of division regulates aggregation and assumes that municipalities and counties comply with, and follow up, decisions on aggregation and other border changes. Municipalities and county councils which have been adopted jointly shall establish a common denominator. The authority to appoint electoral councils in municipalities and county councils to be merged has just been added to this common denominator. So it's a prerequisite for making choices that there's a common denominator. In cases where a municipality or county does not establish a common denominator — and hence a electoral board — this could lead to the setting aside of the democratic rights of citizens to participate in elections. This issue has been updated in particular in Troms and Finnmark, since Finnmark did not first elect members for the common denominator. Finnmark County has now elected members as joint members, and the joint title for the merger of Troms and Finnmark had its first meeting on 17 December 2018. The meeting included: the elected County Election Board. I am pleased about that, and I want the new common denominator to be happy with its important work. Today's draft representative points out that it must be a State responsibility to ensure that the electoral board, which is necessary for the implementation of elections, is set up. The proposal to amend the partitioning law provides for the department to be empowered to appoint the council of local and county councils which are merged when the common denominator in question has not been chosen by the electoral board after an expiry date. I support the proposal, although I believe that it will always be the best solution for local electoral bodies to be elected. Although now all municipalities and county councils that merge seem to want to work on the merger processes in the common denominators, I believe that the proposal has good reasons for doing so, and is necessary. It is a fundamental democratic right for citizens to participate in elections. This right shall not be waived because the majority of the county council or local council members do not elect an electoral board. The proposal provides a security valve to the State: an access to the right of citizens to participate in elections in cases where local authorities do not comply with their statutory obligations and choose the mandatory electoral board. So it's just a safety valve for special cases. I am pleased that Finnmark County now participates in the work of the common denominator on building a new county municipality, and that the common denominator has elected a county election board to facilitate the choice of the new county council by the inhabitants. However, the harvest process has shown that there is a need for a permanent general rule that the Ministry may appoint statutory bodies in the State, county and municipality when necessary for implementing decisions on border change and when those who are required by law to appoint the body fail to do so. This provision will act as a safety valve in the very few, hopefully none, cases where there may be a challenge in implementing adopted and future municipal and county mergers.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-15.ana.ud296e218	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-15.ana.ud296e224	The proposers state that the provision shall be used only for the appointment of the electoral board ‘whose common denominator has not itself appointed the electoral board after an expiry date’. I have two questions for the Council of State. In which of the municipalities or counties that are now required to have mergers, is it not appropriate for the common denominator to appoint an electoral board within the time limit? I heard that the Council of State was, I suppose, very precise in its statement, for she spoke of the authority that the state, or the ministry, gets to appoint a body when the common denominator has not done it itself. Does the Council of State consider that this provision should be used to appoint bodies other than those proposed bodies in their explanatory statement, i.e. only the electoral board?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-15.ana.ud296e231	To the first question, everyone has now set up an electoral board. That's very good. Unfortunately, what we have seen – and it is not limited to where there have been coercive mergers, it has also been the case where there has been voluntary pooling – is that the common denominator has stopped its work. We assume that everyone is now dealing with the statutory rules that are, that they are making a choice. The joint subject of Troms and Finnmark has just been appointed. They have not begun to do their work beyond the election of an electoral board. But if we were to get into a situation where you don't get any further, and where you do your job, the department could step in. I hope that won't happen. I believe that this work should be done locally, and I believe that it is a very strong limitation. The wording of the bill is «statutory body». So it assumes that elected bodies break the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-15.ana.ud296e236	County reform has been a demanding process for all states. They have spent a lot of both political and administrative energy on these processes, and everyone now wants to work to further develop county services, to tackle the relatively limited new tasks they have been given, the new tasks they hopefully get, and to work on the task of regional development. If the government doesn't plan new coercive mergers in the near future, this is an entirely un topical issue, because the challenge it was supposed to solve in Troms and Finnmark is a challenge that no longer exists. Most of the speakers here today have agreed with me that the best thing about an ordinary law change is that it comes as a bill to the Stortinget. Why is this case not now properly rejected and presented by the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-15.ana.ud296e243	This rule is intended in the case that a common denominator — whether by voluntary means or by coercion — would cease its work. We've seen it in Hamarøy, Narvik and Tysfjord that the common denominator shut down their work because they disagreed with a border adjustment. It was basically a voluntary aggregation where this arose. We assume that in all places where you have elected an electoral board, the work will go as normal. This rule doesn't apply. So it's just in case you do your job, you boycott what you've been promised to do. So it's in very special cases, and then I think we're living very well with this derogation, because it's about ensuring people's democratic right to participate in elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-15.ana.ud296e250	SV very much agrees that we need to ensure that everyone is allowed to participate in elections and voted in elections, but it is very difficult to obtain any kind of reason that the Council of State still believes it is right to have a safety valve, as she calls it, for ‘none’, as she herself said, because it is not going to be used now. Can the Council of State provide a single good reason for dealing with a change in the law as extensive and broad as this legal provision is, in fact, without having been investigated, without having been consulted, and without the Council of State or representatives of the promoters of the proposal having demarcated it in any way? It's a long shot. What is the reason that is so strong now that you, for example, does the investigation instructions in this case pass?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-15.ana.ud296e255	I totally disagree with the premises. This is not a comprehensive basis. It is limited to cases where a elected body violates the law. It almost never happens. I haven't experienced it until last autumn that a county broke the law, and we have had legal control of the county council decision in Finnmark. It assumes that a elected body violates the law. It almost never happens. So we've experienced it once, and that's the only time I remember it happening. Nor does it intervene in the sense that it does not take over the local decision-making authority. This is because it refuses to use the local decision-making authority, and that is about putting citizens' right to vote in elections before the right to boycott and act unlawfully. And then I believe that the reason is there to set up this safety valve – in case you had to experience that an electoral board would stop the work, that a common denominator would shut down the work. I am against adhoc legislation, so I believe that such a safety valve is well justified by the example we have, but hopefully it is not used.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-15.ana.ud296e267	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-15.ana.ud296e274	I agree with what the representative Heidi Greni from the Senterpartiet said. When I take the floor, it's because it's so serious that it's necessary to say from this pulpit, so that grassroots also has some representatives in this room. What the Council of State now said about the coup d'état in Finnmark's violation of the law, I must say is something of the strongest I've heard, when we know at the same time that it's like the majority of the population, the government parties plus the Christian People's Party, have done here in this Chamber in terms of decisions on the coercion of Finnmark and Troms, which are illegal. No one has denied the thorough investigation that Professor Eivind Smith has made on that point. It's such a bad process that it's totally unreal. It is such a gross overrun of the will of Finnmark's people, who have said from the referendum, and the people of the Vikings, who have said from the beginning about gallupes. In the last gallop, you only had 14 pst. aid. This is such a rough overrun that it gives an abduction, it gives a contempt for the people's rule that we're going to labor with for a long time. Now you have to run through an urgent change to the law to make sure you don't want to, then you have to! It reminds me of the old saying that we have in the West Fossen: ‘So don’t worry, said the bitch and lift the cats out.’ So it's a will to use power that's so great! I was also in this Chamber in 1995. At that time, the Workers' Party stood for the power line and the coercion line, but they were not willing to use such power as today's government. At that time the leaders of the Right were coerced and opposed such power. They were on the volunteer line. Now they show their face, which is so strong that they are willing to run on. Only they get the right-wing part of the Christian People's Party, drive this through and believe that this will lead to a foundation for the operation of municipalities and county councils that will provide efficiency, and that will provide soberness in the use of money. This is such a thorough misassessment that it cannot be said clearly enough. That one is willing to use this is, of course, the worst basis one can have for democratic cooperation! When the government changes the law with regard to the appointment of electoral authorities, it is because there should be no doubt: all those protesting by coercive decisions should know that it will use the necessary coercive measures against them – and just put them aside. It's strong, it's incredibly strong, and I didn't think that the Christian People's Party would be involved in such a decision when I knew the history of 1995, when it was voluntary that was the line from any of those parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-15.ana.ud296e285	Why does this change happen? Yes, because 87 pst. of the population of Finnmark said no to join Troms. What do people react to? Well, it's this with coercion, and then you show that you have strong feelings for Finnmark states. It has to do with identity and self-esteem. People in Finnland have always managed themselves in every way. We may not have been that rich, but we've made it. 87 pst. said no – they would not merge. This is why there is a proposal for a representative, which will now be the subject of a decision to amend the division law, so that one can overrun the county council in Finnmark, which would not meet in common. This is too bad in a democracy like Norway. A representative proposal is too bad – one should have run the case by the government and got a regular and regular legal work that included hearings and what belongs to it. But no, that's not true. Various parties have previously said that changes to municipalities and counties should take place on a voluntary basis. This fact suggests that changes to the municipal classification must be harmonious and based on local needs, and that the government must recognise that there has been no provision for a divisional shift towards increasingly large municipalities and counties to be the right answer to the problems of individual municipalities and communities. What was one supposed to change in Troms and Finnmark that meant that one couldn't do it in a democratic way? Didn't democracy work like that, would it work? No one in Finnmark has asked for this – none – not a mouth. People were elected to the common denominator of Troms and Finnmark. Some parties found out that one just had to outrun the people's opinion. After my and almost 90 pst. by the people of Finnmark their opinion is what is happening now, not right. The wording of this proposal may confer powers greater than those intended. Therefore, such a proposal as this should have come from the government, not from four large-scale representatives, so that ordinary law work had been done.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-15.ana.ud296e300	The reason why I take the floor is the answer from the Council of State, which pointed out that here, according to the law of division, the council has a duty to appoint a public body to work. That's right, so it's a breach of obligation if you don't. But there have also been quite qualified and heavy legal concerns about the process that has been going around the county merger, especially in Troms and Finnmark, about the lack of government investigation as a basis for the decision that was then taken. Then I think it is a little slow that you now refer to the kind of formalities – when the situation is clarified. If the situation had not been clarified, SV would have come to support the Workers' Party's proposal, because there could have been reason for it if the situation had been unclear, but it is not. The Council of State says that there is ‘no’ and SV does not reject the need for such a permit. But then we have to take the time we need to figure it out properly, when we have that time, because the acute situation is averted. That is when I am very critical of what the Council of State says, because I believe that there is no longer any good reason for an urgent decision based on a proposal for a representative – without any investigation or reference to any kind of preparatory legislative work through the NOU or anything. This is a paragraph that says it's hard to see the width and the consequence of. State council says there is a kind of emergency valve that should only be used in very special cases. I hope so, but it would have been nice to know how it was actually intended to be applied, and that it was discussed more legally how it was to be done. I don't understand why the government believes this should be done this way either. I expect – to put it that way – the background to the draft representative comes from the government, I guess. I hope at least that this is not something you have been sitting and yelling at the back here at Stortinget, because that makes the matter even worse. So I think the formal justification given by the Council of State was bad. I think the current situation that triggered the case is not present, and then there is no reason to vote for either the Government Party's or the Workers' Party's proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-15.ana.ud296e311	There was a slightly special introduction by the rapporteur when he showed that it had come from the Stortinget initiative for regional reform, and that it was therefore the Stortinget that had to be implemented. The last time I checked, it was the Stortinget that decided, and the government that carried out. It was also raised the question that the majority of the population had made a decision, and that it had to be followed, i.e. that the law had to be complied with. You can also ask that question in the other way – if the Stortinget has chosen to follow the law. There are many heavy, legal environments that have been problematic, and so it has the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party chosen not to lay any foundation. I note with interest that not all the parties have chosen to participate in this debate, a debate that I think Finnmark's people – Finnmark is the starting point for this proposal – absolutely wanted to hear more about, among other things. concerning both the Party of Advancement and the Left's views on this matter. The rapporteur was in a key position, namely that it was an ‘acute situation’. And when the key was ‘was’, it should mean that you had time to do a proper deal. For what is in the setting: ‘The proposers point out that the wording of this amendment is general and related to statutory bodies in the municipality, county and state, but that the provision should be used only for the appointment of local or county councils in the merger process where the common denominator in question has not itself appointed the electoral board after an expiry date.’ If that's not a general access, without boundaries, I don't know. This means that, on the basis of a proposal from four representatives, such as the Council of State, at least at the turn of the line, it was made to be heard as her proposal was, as quickly as possible, opening up wide access to overrun local, county and municipal autonomy in the future. Because I am interested to note that the Workers' Party is asking the government to take the initiative they have taken, to assume that this is to be properly investigated, so that the grounds for the next round of municipal and county merger have been prepared. After all, it is to go away from what you – at least the Workers' Party – have said in the past. And I should have liked to have heard a more detailed reason why you want to give the government the opportunity to make a thorough legal investigation about how to override local democracy. It would have been an interesting debate to take part in.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-15.ana.ud296e326	First to the representative Greni: I said in my post that the Workers' Party was against the use of coercion. We've been against it, we're against it, and we're going to be against it. Then, of course, the Centre Party is relatively anxious every time we talk about changes in the municipal and regional structures. After all, according to the views of the Workers' Party, future changes to that structure may be needed. It could be that the world is changing in the future, and we're open to that. Then we can always discuss how this is going to happen. So far, we've assumed that it's going to happen on a voluntary basis, and so we have no plans to change that. But the main reason I took the floor was that I needed clarification. Today we treat a change in the law, and as I said in my post instead, this can be seen as a rather heavy intervention in the local government. We've been based on an understanding of what the proposal that's being promoted actually means. It is therefore stated in the draft representative that this should only be used to appoint an electoral board in cases where the common denominator has not. That is not what the Council of State has said in this House today. The Council of State has referred to entirely different reasons and generally referred to them in the cases of appointing a body. This has to be clarified by the rapporteur, because this is absolutely essential in terms of how the law is to be understood and applied. My understanding is – and if I am wrong, someone has to correct me – that this legal provision should only be applied as described and justified in the proposal for a representative: in cases where the common denominator does not appoint an electoral board. Because that's why this safety valve has been a reason, and that's what the Workers' Party's proposal is all about. And just because this has been unclear, we've chosen to put a time limit on it. Now that uncertainty has arisen about this in this Chamber, I would just like to inform you that the Workers' Party will support the subsidiary Centre Party and the SV's proposal that the proposal not be adopted, because it is perceived – as it is now – as a sneaking-up of vast powers, which is quite different from the justification that has been used both formally and in the public word change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-15.ana.ud296e335	When I asked for the floor, it was because of the greeting from the Workers' Party. I didn't think I should have to take it, but when the Workers' Party here from the pulpit chooses to use 'anxious' about the Center Party, I have to say a little greeting. The central party is that changes in the organisation of municipalities and county municipalities are to be carried out in the future, but it is to come from below. In my election district in Buskerud, we have several areas where positive processes just happen under the leadership of the Center Party, and one gets an understanding that the changes are necessary, and that the changes are correct. What this case shows, with the proposal that the Workers' Party has made, is that if the Centre Party is anxious, then the Workers' Party is highly skilled – one does not know which leg to stand on. Obviously, there is a great deal of disagreement in the Workers' Party, which is natural. I had hoped that the Labour Party's line could now be more firm, more in line with what the representative Martin Kolberg says in repeated contexts, that here the Workers' Party must act with a firmness, based on volunteering, for that is what could bring good cooperation with the Centre Party around the vast country. I hope that one adds to the quackiness, and that one can take an ideologically clear clarification on these questions, as on other questions, because this is some of the whole problem for the Workers' Party today, that there is a lack of internal clarification. I am pleased with what the representative Sivertsen now said that the Workers' Party will subsidize the Centre Party and support the SV's proposals. It is nice, but I think it was sad that the Workers' Party in the configuration came up with a proposal that really aims to ease the pressure on the internal discussion in the Finnmark Workers' Party, and that thus one should get on with it. The center party isn't a pain in the ass. We work for matters from below, and I want the Workers' Party to become less skilled in these matters – as in a number of other matters – in the future. That's what they say.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-15.ana.ud296e348	In fact, it is necessary to criticise the government, because the matter we have to deal with here now is a direct result of an unimaginably miserable political craft. That's what's going on. The background is a regional reform led by the government, where unfortunately the Christian People's Party has chosen to cling to, but for which one has not been able to argue. People didn't want it – it's been said no, no and no – but you've forced it through. You haven't had a clear goal and purpose in how this was going to be, and what it should be, it's been the game of chance, and so you've drawn a map on the back, the structure has been more important than the content. This has been perceived by people, and this has been opposed. Then the unfinished business comes in the back just because there's been a terrible political craft from the beginning, and then we get one thing like we get here today. Then the Center Party – and everyone else – can take it with a crushing calm: the Workers' Party is on the volunteer line. It's on page 75 of our National Meeting Programme, a document that's open and readable by anyone who wants to read it. You're welcome to look up, it's on the Internet. It says very clearly what the Labour Party's position is on this, and it's clear and clear, nothing else: the Labour Party stands for volunteering. We've also voted for it in this room, along with the rest of the majority. So that would make a lot of sense, I think, among other things. by the Centre Party, to be more concerned about today's government's behaviour towards municipalities and counties in many ways – not least the economy of the municipalities and counties – than trying to give the impression that the Workers' Party believes anything else than what we do. I'll tell the Center Party to stop. Finally, I now expect the President-in-Office and the Council of State to come up and clarify the questions asked by the representative Eirik Sivertsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-15.ana.ud296e357	To the representative of Nordlund: I know, of course, that it is the government that implements, following the decision of the Stortingen, but the Stortinget must ensure that the government has the authority to implement the decision of the Stortingen, and that is what this is all about. Should we have a basis to ensure that choices are made, or should we not have? To Sivertsen: I believe that the clarification he is asking for is contained in the text of the draft representative, in the explanatory statement. It clearly states that: «the provision shall be used only for the appointment of the local or county councils in the merger process where the common denominator concerned has not itself appointed the electoral board after an expiry date.» That's of course what this is about. It is the delimitation of the basis that a majority here in this Chamber will adopt today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-15.ana.ud296e369	I am very pleased that the Workers' Party has now established that they are still on the volunteer line. But there was reason to be concerned when they write in comments about new rounds in municipal and county mergers. The centre party has nothing against municipal and county mergers if it's voluntary, and if there's a local initiative coming from below, but when I read 'new rounds', I imagine that someone thinks it's going to take the initiative for new rounds as well as what we've had, and I hope that at last we don't. And to the representative of Lauvås: Yes, I am much more concerned about today's government than I am about the Labour Party's policy in this area. And I get extra worried when I have not received any response from the Christian People's Party in the Chamber today on my challenge of where they really stand in the principle of volunteering. For the Christian People's Party expressed in the post today that they thought this was no longer relevant in the case in question in Finnmark, and it is certainly all agreed on. But then they say that there is no guarantee that the situation cannot come back once in the future, and I find it difficult to see that it can come back without a new coercion decision being taken. I guess no one joins up on a voluntary basis, who can't appoint an electoral candidate. So I would have been very reassured if the Christian People's Party could also establish that they are on the voluntary decision we were together about when it comes to community mergers, and that we cannot expect new coercive mergers of either municipalities or counties in the current period, that both municipalities and counties are now going to have work to work on the further development of their services, that the counties are going to have to work on the new tasks they are getting, and not least that they are getting to work on regional development at county level and economic development in all Norwegian municipalities, which has been put on hold because too much energy over several years has been spent on the municipal reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-15.ana.ud296e378	The representative, Eirik Sivertsen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-15.ana.ud296e383	I would like to take this opportunity to thank the rapporteur for his clarification. And let it be clear: it is now repeatedly precisely defined, both by the undersigned and by the case rapporteur, what is the reason and what the definition of the proposal you are dealing with here today can be used for. The only thing that remains now is that the Council of State agrees to the perception of that demarcation. And the limitation is therefore that the provision should only be used in cases where the common denominator has not appointed an electoral board. That's the bounding that's been made. I ask the Council of State to confirm that she has understood and agrees that it is the understanding of this rule of law, which is most likely to be adopted today by a majority of the European Parliament. So I would like to take the opportunity to encourage the majority to vote in favour of the time limit for the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-15.ana.ud296e390	Once again, I shall explicitly confirm exactly what I said in my post instead. If the Center Party hadn't been so busy assigning us motives that we don't have, that we don't stand for the development of the municipalities, I might have been heard. The Christian People's Party has stood – and stands – for coercion decisions in the case of regions. But as I see the situation now, that round is well over. We agreed on a decision that future changes in municipal structures should take place on a voluntary basis, and that is now our stated policy. Something else I don't know. So I hope the Center Party hears it now, and that together we can stand for the development of our community. That's where we actually have the same goal, even though we're different parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-15.ana.ud296e395	I would like to take the opportunity to remind the representative of Lauvås and also representatives from the Central Party who repeatedly in all the media highlight that this is the government's project, and that the Left and Christian People's Party has almost thrown itself on – that was the expression that was used – that it is not. The regional reform has been initiated by Stortinget, adopted by Stortinget, and the map is drawn by Stortinget. We have, on the part of the government, loyally implemented the decisions taken afterwards. We have a mission from the Storing, which does not include the setting up of bodies where the elected locals do not. When I used the word organ, it's because it's used in the legal text. To the representative Sivertsen, I would like to say that it is not just that I agree with the understanding. That's how the legal method is. You go to the legal text, and if you don't find good enough answers there, you go to the preliminary work of the law. The preparations of the law are clear, and those who want to try to interpret themselves can only try to understand that it is only in cases where no electoral authority is established locally that this home is applicable. That's also why this is a very limited rule, which hopefully doesn't have to be used. But the need for people to vote is more important than the concern of elected representatives who break the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-15.ana.ud296e404	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-15.ana.ud296e422	The development of the mountain region will have ring-effects in large parts of South Norway, and the valley Valdres with its six municipalities is central both in location and in politics. The municipalities are the most important arena for the inhabitants of our country, where they will get good services and follow-up near where they live, throughout the country, no matter where they live. The municipalities of Valdres receive a total of tougher amounts of the new income system of the Council of State for the municipalities. The central party wants much stronger municipalities, not as the state council mentions it, measured in terms of totals, residents and trade unions. We want strong municipalities with more money to provide services and well-being for people. We demand less bureaucracy and more trust in local democracy, fewer directorates and more in the first line of work for the people and communities they live in. Efficiency can be so often. Governments should value and remember that trust between peoples also increases efficiency. The Valdres valley has great value creation of particular values, such as in tourism and agriculture. Trade in goods also employs many. This is a ringing effect of the flow of both people and goods into and out of the valley. The travel news of the State Council of Malta appeared last year, we had great expectations, but we were disappointed. The quantity is also most important in travel. The quality and unique experiences that the mountains can offer in South Norway were not lifted. Our environmentally friendly food production with extensive use of outdoor pastures and steel traditions as well as low use of antibiotics is not interesting enough. The quantity of travel is about to go beyond the quality of our natural experiences and after each of our credibility in terms of the environment and climate impact. In addition, locally processed gardsis and beer are struggling to obtain a viable profit. Forestry is able to deliver within its niches, but requires far greater initiatives from both political management, knowledge-rich entrepreneurs and conscious buyers to extract the potential that lies in our forest. When the government protects forest rather than promote forestry, we do not increase the use of renewable carbon. Transport is necessary both in and out of the valley. The Valdres Railway is closed, so the roads from the west, the south and the north connect both the valley of the world and the world to us – not to forget communications via mobile networks and the Internet. Lack of infrastructure such as good roads, mobile coverage and good broadband hinders development today. The E16 should have had racial agents for Quamskleiva and have been repaired for the last sections that constitute bottlenecks. The E16 is the most winter-proof road between west and east, which we saw clearly last night, with wind and weather and get open mountain passes. National and county roads require major transfers from state to state. In several places, the municipal roads are the best roads, but this has also had its price. Road is absolutely essential for people to live and operate throughout the valley. For example, the gravel roof lies at the heart of Lykkja, the concrete work on the other side of the hill, in Ryfoss, and the cottage that should have cast a base wall lies several miles south, either on the Vaset, Golsbergellet or Reinli. The wheels that keep business going need the road to roll. Good Internet coverage is also fundamental in 2019. More and more functions work almost only online. What does the Council of State think about the way the need for the Internet is calculated, and what role do guests play in cabins and destinations, part-time immigrants and residents of Valdres and elsewhere? Is it okay that sometimes trade gets completely out of hand because banking terminals lack the Internet? Government investment is essential for sales and investment in Norway. The state plays a major role with industry in general. Workplaces at, inter alia: NIBIO and the State Road Service are important. NIBIO Department The onion has put the government down, and the state road service is now at risk of the same centralisation – all in order to streamline and reduce taxes on the wealthiest in our country. Unfortunately, the taxes to the government do not give the huge increase in jobs that they had promised. Dropping taxes on income you do not have does not help. There is little help in increasing VAT on travel services. What are the prospects and ambitions of the Council of State to set objectives and resources in the context of the Valdres? The valley needs increased competence and innovation in the public and private sectors in the future, in line with the development of society and the increased expectations of citizens and the governance. Travel, agriculture and society in general want more research. We may be more concerned with impacts and knowledge-based policies than ever before. There has been reason to ask whether it gives our country the desired development if we should measure and document ourselves to the development we want. Nevertheless, research and education are important. Career guidance and accommodating skills or certificates of competence must be provided. Inland counties have been forward-looking, provided funds for good initiatives and will now follow-up initiatives, among others. start-up of a new vocational school in Hallingdal. What skills and R & D actions are suitable for mountain development? How can we recruit qualified applicants for jobs that require a high level of competence? How can we train and train workers in the valley to meet the future? Today I have more questions than answers. This is related to the fact that the Center Party is not in position, and that a policy I sometimes have major problems understanding. On Stortinget I am the only representative from Valdres and the first ever from the mountain village of Beito. It gives me a separate view of the world. At the same time, I have learned that my experiences are not unique and that my vision is not unique. On more and more journeys in the world, including in Europe and Norway, I notice that people have similar challenges. That's why I'm raising the issue for the Council of State, hoping that this will get more attention from the government. Our mountain people between – I would like to greet you with some well-chosen words from the party colleague and alienation Alexander B. Herseth. They say, 'It was as they went together, the blue sky dish, and the right-wing mountain that stuck up in the horizon.' My final question to the Council of State is: How will the government develop the mountain region and Valdres with business, transport project, strengthening the county and state jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-15.ana.ud296e447	Let me start by thanking the interpellant for lifting an important theme. The government is committed to implementing a rural policy that provides growth, equivalent living conditions and sustainable regions throughout the country. To do that, we need good jobs, we need decentralised power, we need stronger links between businesses and the public. The future is primarily ensured by job creation in private enterprises. They create values and jobs and make sure that we live in the whole country. The government supports this with expertise, innovation, business development, infrastructure and growth-enhancing tax incentives. This year we spend almost 10 billion. on research and innovation. It's been a double since 2013. We focus more on what we know creates growth and development. That is why we are turning some of the regional policy instruments into investments in county roads and other infrastructure. At the same time, we focus on regional policy instruments for business and innovation. The mountain region is an exciting region, which is going very well. Travel activities are progressing and there is an exciting development in local food production. At the same time, we know that the region has challenges of centralisation, ageing populations and the need for change. Providing sufficient skills and labour in the future will be a challenge for many. The six municipalities in Valdres estimate that 900 new health workers will be needed in Valdres in the coming years and another 300 health workers in order to meet the older wave – this in a region currently employing less than 9 000 workers. It's obviously going to be a challenge. In 2016, the government presented a strategy for the bioeconomy, with targets for more jobs in green industries. Upland and Hedmark County municipalities have jointly developed Biostrategie for the Inland. The government strengthens the bioeconomy industry so that several projects can be implemented. In Østre Slider, for example, Tor Oxhovd Svales made energy supply more short-range, environmentally friendly and sustainable. On Beitostølen the use of electricity and fuel oil is now replaced by heat based on the burning of tiles from the forests of Valdres. Svalesen is one of those supported by the Bioenergy Programme in Innovation Norway. The SIVA business environment programme has fueled efforts towards the economic environments that produce enterprises with growth in value creation. Valdres Nutritional Garden claims well. So there are several initiatives that experience success, and that's good. Regional reform and local reform give local and regional authorities more influence over their own development. We move more tasks to the new regions and strengthen the role of county councils as community developers. The county councils are entrusted with a number of tasks in the fields of transport, industrial development, agriculture, research, public health, competence and culture. More tasks may follow later. I am convinced that there will be a clear advantage for the work on business development if the municipalities of Valdres choose to join forces. According to the municipalities themselves, the work is little anchored in the planning and administration of the municipalities, and they lack employees to do the job. One larger municipality will be able to improve the efficiency of work and ensure a greater degree of long-term sustainability. The population of Valdres has a common interest in developing the whole region, both in terms of business, services and local community development. Then it will be an advantage with one municipality. Four departments – NFD, LMD, KLD and KMD – have been working together over several years to simplify the management of the land, including: to facilitate more value creation. Some examples of concrete results are: We're making it possible for more people to visit the national parks, which is a good basis for increased value creation. We have strengthened the competence of municipal case handlers in field management tasks. The District Centre has gathered and disseminated experiences from municipalities that rate value creation based on natural and cultural resources. We're working with an instructor for leisure building planning. These are areas where we see that national levels can contribute to the knowledge that municipalities can benefit from. Travel life is an important industry in the mountain region. Travel life creates values, jobs, housing, infrastructure and offers to residents. The number of commercial nights spent in Norway is increasing. Several projects in the mountaineering, funded by KMD in the period 2013–2017, have worked to divide tourism into several attractions, and throughout the year. In Hemsedal and Trysil they facilitate more cycling tourism. It extends the season and increases the activity offer. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries has helped to make travel destination companies effective and their financing predictable. In the mountain region, a new company – Norske Fjell. Norwegian Mountain has become a well-functioning company with good anchoring in the travel industry. Another important industry in the mountain region is agriculture. In 2019, the government has set aside 828 million. SEK for the investment and development of enterprises and programme support for agriculture and agricultural industries. An example is the Nerøygarden in Sel. Here they build a modern facility for the regional race dollaf. This is the production of beef based on the best possible use of pasture. There is good use of natural resources. That's set of 2 million. kr over the agricultural agreement for mountain farming in 2019. The aim is to strengthen the basis for sustainable value creation in mountain areas in traditional agriculture and rural industries. NIBIO has an important role to play in developing new knowledge about the potential of mountain farming, and LMD will follow up NIBIO in this area in the future. An important contribution to industrial development and jobs is infrastructure. The government works to build the most possible way for the money. In the national transport plan for 2018-2029, several major road projects, including the E16 between Feners and Eyes, are prioritised as State resources. It's set at 430 million. kr to improve visibility and safety. E16 shall be upgraded above File Mountain and between Bakn and Bjørgo. Conversion and remediation provide better accessibility and reduced travel time. Project expected to open until autumn. Mobile and broadband are also being expanded. We have targeted the grants towards the areas with the lowest coverage. The State contributes 200 million in 2019. kr for the expansion of broadband in areas that do not receive a satisfactory offer based on commercial expansion. Valdres also enjoys this. Upland county municipalities have also launched their own broadband initiatives in cooperation with municipalities and regions. The development of mobile coverage with high data capacity requires access to appropriate radio frequencies. The Government has decided that the 700 MHz band, which is particularly suitable in areas of demanding topography, shall be used for mobile services. It is important to implement new technologies, for example: in the health and introduction of autonomous vehicles. The main role of the government in this field is to create a good framework for investment in all parts of the country. Several measures have been put in place to facilitate more effective competition and cost-effective development. The government is working on a new district message, which is to be submitted to the Size of Summer. Here we will describe the challenges and clearly show the need for a wide range of regional policy efforts. We are also working on a major communication on innovation in the public sector, which we plan to present next year. We need to put new technologies in place and find new forms of work. We need to cooperate across sectors, administrative boundaries and levels of administration. As the interpellant emphasises, state jobs are important for regional development. The government will continue its efforts to localise new public competences jobs across the country, including beyond the major cities. By improving the efficiency and structural changes in state activities, the government will ensure a continued good regional distribution of government jobs. In Valdres, for example, the Leira tax office strengthened when the number of tax offices on a national basis is reduced. All in all, therefore, I would like to say that the government has a coherent and powerful policy that strengthens the growth and development of the whole country, including the mountain region.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-15.ana.ud296e523	I still don't get any sense of the arguments for the government's priorities. Community integration is not the only solution to the challenges you face. I have been shocked by the extensive cuts in initiatives and initiatives that would give growth and development in Valdres, and by which the Council of State stands here and boasts as an important part of the government's district policy. At the same time, taxes and subsidies are set up in a way that punishes us who live with pigs, at least when the municipalities do not want to merge. One field is cut in incentives in the forest industry. Thanks to clear local choices, Tor Oxhovd Svales is a man against the current – he takes the forest into operation. Another field is cut off in funds for broadband development, which the negotiations in Stortinget have fortunately increased. The government continues to invest in regional development funds. These have been evaluated by Telemarks research as accurate, flexible and free of special costs for the states to manage. So here companies have flourished all over the country without the government seeing the value of this. Fortunately, the E16 project was prioritised under the red-green government. But now there are anti-racist agents for E16 Quamskleiva we're standing here and asking for, which is becoming more and more precarious. Furthermore, the reorganisation of the state road system must not result in fewer state jobs in Valdres. Tax offices are the result of tough local fighting. Regional leaders both north of Hedmark, Uppland and in Buskerud demand that digital aids and innovation provide more decentralisation. I want to challenge the state to what extent the government has the ability to think across disciplines. The Centre Party promotes, in a number of contexts, transport, road and broadband, education, vocational training and professional careers, and a fair business and working life as important elements of value creation and productivity growth across the country. This requires that we see the investment and the return in the context, also across the department. Here the valley falls Valdres between chairs. The center party wants to bet. Our resources are distributed throughout the country, and then we have to bet. We wish, among other things: increased subsidies to Innovation Norway, better framework conditions for farmers across the country and a real protection of the soil. In addition, a secure framework for business and people are well prepared. And if there's something that we see as a tendency, it's that there's going to be fewer bars, no more. This is a result of government policy. Businesses depend on transport and communication that makes it possible to use the whole country. What state jobs can we expect to move to – instead of – Valdres?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-15.ana.ud296e538	I believe more and more people in our country want an honest political debate where what is said in the Stortinget matches what you experience out there. That's why it's very nice that we have a debate about the mountain region, because it's not necessarily that part of Norway that gets the most attention in the national debate. I want to start by saying that parts of the debate we have heard are about both the mountain region and much more than that. In the mountain region, we have some of the best food production available, both in Norway and to an international extent. By developing business activities in that part of our country, we can help to do something about some major problems both for our country and for the rest of the world. In the next few years, I believe that climate, biodiversity, antibiotic resistance – which is expected to take more lives than cancer – animal welfare, and not least the safety of people by having enough and safe food, are five things that everyone is going to get a lot of attention both individually and collectively. On the basis of all the major societal challenges that we are going to solve in Norway, there is a very good food production, which we must have at the bottom. That's why it's important for us in the Workers' Party to address just those problems and that we now get the Biggest together about a policy that is in line with the societal mission we're going to solve. Now, just over Christmas, we in Stortinget are going to deal with our own issue of adapting agricultural production to a changing climate, so that we can have both animal welfare, biodiversity in our country and increased security of self-sufficiency. Then I hope – once we have heard the government and the Right represented by Monica Mæland – that the Council of State sends a powerful signal to support this proposal, because it solves both the things we are going to achieve for the mountain region and the other major societal challenges that we are going to face. Unfortunately, a policy of centralisation that is weak does not change simply because it is called powerful. That's the point of being honest in the discussion. In the Business Committee, we have really begun to raise this issue. In a hearing last year, Kristin Krohn Devold at NHO Travel Life was asked if it is important for the NHO with an agricultural policy that ensures small and medium-sized farms, and then Kristin Krohn Devold could confirm that it is. It's hardly something that's so important to travel life in both the mountain region and others, similar, parts of our country as living there, that there is activity there, that we have a cultural landscape, and that there are interesting things to see in the interaction between people and nature – that is, a living culture. In addition, technology may be used to reinforce these possibilities. Then it is obvious that broadband is important. Therefore, a strong state investment in broadband development will be important to hit this part of Norway, which actually has the worst broadband coverage across the country. The mountain region of South Norway is characterized by the spread of people living in all parts of the region. In Finnmark, more people live in the cities, while in Hedmark and Oppland, who now become Inland, people live around the whole area. This means that broadband development, with democracy as its help, is crucial for future-oriented development. With this in mind, we expect that the policy will be honest in terms of the objectives we are going to achieve and that it will actually change from being centralised and weak to being powerful in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-15.ana.ud296e559	I would like to thank my colleague Marit Knutsdatter Strand for an important interpellation, which concerns both the inland and, for that matter, also the coast. Valdres is the neighbouring valley of Hallingdal, and many of the challenges that are in Valdres, we also have in Hallingdal and Numedal. A business and work life that provides permanent work, with Norwegian pay and working conditions, is important for the choice of residence by young families. About 50 pst. of today’s youth takes on higher theoretical education, and today there is a large geographical imbalance between this youth’s education and where they can find work. The districts, whether Valdres, Hallingdal or Numedal, have far too few jobs for higher theoretically educated people, and it goes from bad to worse. Several municipalities in Inland Norway are now almost completely cleaned up for state employees. Therefore, the course must be reversed – from centralisation to decentralisation. The most important thing with regard to the state is that we get an organic growth of state jobs, so that one can also start there from a level of entrepreneurs and develop state activities to something large in individual communities around, for example, the Inland. Top communication that eliminates distance costs is essential. Therefore, it is essential that we get fiber, physical fiber, up to all residents, and eventually also to cabins where there is installed electricity. Digital Allemmannsrecht has been a matter for the Center Party since the 2000s, when Odd Roger Enoksen was the Council of State in the Ministry of Local Affairs. The proposal on digital all-person rights was that one should go away from a demand-driven system of expansion to the supply-driven expansion of fibre. In order to have offer-driven fibre expansion, a seafaring must be willing to cross-subsidise, and therefore only government agencies can do such a task. It's the same principle that one in its time used to get phone and power to people in Norway. In the Municipal Report as early as 4 February 2000, there is a reference to an NTB message where Dr Detlef Eckert of the EU Information Society Directorate says that the EU does not base the principle of equal access to the construction of broadband networks. According to Eckert, Norwegian development on such a basis may conflict with EU legislation on competition in the telecommunications market. Jan Edvard Thygesen, who was the CEO of Telenor's fixed network, felt that it was not appropriate to base the same regulatory requirements on the telephone network, where price and quality are equal throughout the country. That was a statement at the time, but, in the opinion of the Center Party, we have a national freedom of action for the development of our infrastructure. Fibres are – as electricity and road – physical monopolies that the public should own, but which all private individuals must use, and therefore a combination of public ownership and a private use provides the best in the Norwegian model. What is important now is the question, among other things. on the location of State workplaces. In the 18-page response letter to the Health and Care Committee in connection with the Central Party's proposal to prevent the centralisation of the office structure of the Health Economy Administration, Helfo, the government's basic view of the location of state jobs came forward, and it is very central to the municipal minister, who is here in the Chamber now. That's what it says. ‘New complex competences with a high level of digital competence are expected to be particularly sought in the future, which means that the quality of the environment will become crucial.’ It's a formulation that I want the Council of State to assess. Does that phrase mean that places like the Feners, the Geilo or the Nesby in Hallingdal are places that the Council of State does not consider to have the necessary prerequisites to house future state activities, state jobs? Here we are at the heart of the policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-15.ana.ud296e585	The representative Knutsdatter Strand calls for the development of the mountain region, and there is a legitimate demand. Today, there are still close to 1 million who are unsolicited for high-capacity broadband, according to research director Ivar Petter Groette at Westlandforschung. He said this to the nations. The Prime Minister says that there are no major differences between people, but that is wrong, for the figure from the Ncom’s latest broadband coverage survey in Norway shows that there are considerable differences here. In Oslo, it's got a whole 98 pst. of households offering high capacity broadband of 100 MB or more. At the bottom is Uppland – only 63 pst. of households having broadband capacity of 100 MB or more. There's a growing dissatisfaction with broadband coverage among people, and at least they're satisfied in the countryside. It's not strange when the government maintains and increases the differences. More and more are dependent on high-capacity broadband, both at work and in private contexts. It's going to be a bigger class division. The farmer in the Mountain region needs high-capacity broadband. The founder at the top of the branch needs high capacity on his web. It also does the health care of the future. Of course, an own broadband effort between Uppland County and the municipalities, as the minister mentions, is good, but when the State Council of Malta makes itself boast of the government's powerful policy, there is a basis for asking: Why will the government spend less than 100 million dollars. kr for broadband development grants? The center part will use five times as much. The broadband subsidy was now negotiated to almost 200 million. kr, but calling this bet a powerful policy is clearly a glamour – or a performance that the government is constantly pointing to. They're trying to show that it's doing so well. Yeah, maybe things are going well in some places, but the districts are still lagging behind with the lack of broadband bet that is today. We have to give the farmer with milkrobot, the founder who needs high-capacity broadband, and the health service of the future the same opportunities wherever they are located. This means that there is no powerful broadband policy, and unfortunately the mountain region is noted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-15.ana.ud296e596	I want to commend the representative for addressing a problem that many people in the mountain region feel, namely that you are part of the country that this government does not see. The response of the Council of State to the challenge of the representative Knutsdatter Strand does not ensure that the government chooses to see the whole country. So you have a feeling that you're doing a powerful job in the whole country, but that's not what people out there are experiencing. On the contrary, there is a government that does not listen, that does not want to take local forces seriously, and that does not want to build up under the possibilities that include: The mountain region has, with its peculiar values. It's a region that I – even though I'm from the north and from the coast – like to visit, and that I've had a lot of pleasure in getting close-up experience. Not least, I have enjoyed looking at the great enthusiasm that is for developing new projects and for running business. In this context, the representative Knutsdatter Strand calls for a bet on the county municipality. The government does not want to address that kind of question, but it is constantly pointing out that a strong investment has been made in infrastructure. I find reason to remind the Council of State that even though important infrastructure projects are under way on the national road network, as the previous government worked out, there are also a large number of county roads in the Mountain Region. Upland counties, to which the Mountain Region belongs, have not had the opportunity to operate the racial protection projects that you want to put in place to make it safer to live there. Just so you know, security is a keyword here. When we're done discussing the opportunities that need to be in place to drive business development, business start-ups and innovation, people need to feel secure in everyday life, just to be able to want to work and live and develop the particular benefits that are found in the Mountain region. Then it is time to ask: How does the government think that a weakened ambulance preparedness – that you weaken the police and that you have fewer people in the first line – should contribute to increased security for the people of the mountain region? Services near people are a crossroads that says something about what opportunities the public provides, so that everyone has access to equivalent services — whether health care is when you get old and sick, a kindergarten where the kids can go, or good schools. It requires a good municipal economy. The income system of Norwegian municipalities has been changed by the bulk of the population in which the current government originates. Then the possibilities for the six municipalities in Valdres have become worse with today's government. Given the fact that they have had good use of natural resources and have had a large part of their energy resources, the cohesion of these municipalities is weakened, they are exposed to potentially greater fluctuations in the income base and thus also weakens the ability to drive innovation and the development of services in the municipalities. It's suspicious. I will end by saying that seeing the whole country and seeing the peculiar benefits and opportunities of the mountain region should be any government's wish. I record that the Council of State does not raise new, great opportunities for the Mountain Region, but refers to what you've done, and what you're basing on was the least you could do. It is not considered that the government should take any action for this region in respect of neither new transport projects, strengthening the county, including regional development funds, nor, not least, the county roads. Nor does the Council of State wish, according to the representative, to bring forward any new opportunities for government jobs. That's too bad.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-15.ana.ud296e607	Investing in the future is investing in children and young people. The last prediction of births in and migration to Valdres was positive for several municipalities. The valley can range from having an ageing population to having more younger and working inhabitants. This requires frameworks to enable you to live, drive and create. Basic infrastructure must be in place. Laws, taxes and taxes must make it possible to operate even if a person prefers to live in a small farm rather than in an urban farm. Many aspects have been highlighted in the debate, but there are also many that should have been mentioned. Self-sufficiency and preparedness, hydropower, land, climate change – there is so much that affects Valdres and what is happening there. Governments took up the spread of power. In that case, existing governments must also be heard when they give up to the government. The county councils of Hedmark and Oppland are being merged against their will. The predators are not respected when they propose the killing of predators. The government listens to the people when it suits it. I'm not afraid of Valdres himself. There's enough of the people with the intrusions and ideas to take the valley into the future. For example, Creator Force Valdres, with a «maker space», is involved in raising the technological competence of the valley. What worries me is the government as a brake pad for all the even greater possibilities Valdres could have to lift and develop themselves into the future. This debate has not been exhaustive as to how to achieve this. I do not feel that the government has promoted any more tempting alternatives for me to support when I believe in growth and development in Valdres. A vital Valdres has an active business and work life and culture that binds people and builds together, where people live good lives and have safe lives. The public helps to prepare the ski boots so that people can ski. We help clean the water so that people can drink, bathe and fish. We're going to make it possible for people to live, drive and create all over Valdres. The mountains and the people are facing the future with new choices and opportunities of motivation. I thank you for the debate and the recordings from both the position and the opposition and hope this can help raise the edges of Norway and the mountains.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-15.ana.ud296e622	Let me also thank you for the debate and the recordings. I feel that the interpellant is calling for more investment in transport, infrastructure, broadband, competence and innovation, more industrial policy instruments, decentralised tasks and more government jobs out of Oslo. My answer is that this delivers the government. And of course, from the opposition – especially from the interpellant’s party – you can think it’s too small. In that case, I would add that there is a rather merciless judgment over your own policy in the position. I feel that the interpellant disagrees with the fact that the community merger is the answer, and that she believes that six municipalities are good – I disagree. I mean, size means something. I believe it is striking how much cooperation municipalities can have, on child protection, procurement, school and many other important tasks, but you cannot cooperate on a municipality building and a councillor. I believe that less use of money in municipal buildings and advisers is good. Then you can spend more money on services for people and capacity. In particular, having the capacity to plan for economic development, employment and housing requires that you have people who can work with this, that you have skills. I think the size of the municipalities means something. I believe that you have a lot to earn by collecting forces. One of my main concerns is the description by the SSB of the proportion of active workers. If we see 10 to 20 years ahead, the proportion of economically active people will grow only around the big cities. What does that mean? Well, that means that in the rest of the country we have to work for employment, because young people are going to move where they get a job. A lot of people want to move home, but it requires that they and the partner get a job. Then someone has to work on this, and they have to be in the municipalities. I also believe that the county authorities need more instruments. Norway is different. Having general, good tools is important. The tax level means a lot to privately owned enterprises in the mountain region of Valdres, just as it does in Bergen and Alta. But it is also important that we have special investments for bioeconomy, tourism, industry and the sea. It is to take on board that Norway is different and that the challenges are different. People are going to live where they get a job, and then we have to do job creation in the private sector. It's not like someone's being punished because they're small. We have an income system that takes on that we have district challenges and district disadvantages. Of course we should, but above all, values must be created through employment.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-15.ana.ud296e636	Case No. So 2 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-15.ana.ud296e652	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-15.ana.ud296e661	I want to thank the Committee for a very good cooperation, a very good dialogue and a good tone in this matter. It is particularly gratifying to see that even the SV and the Advance Party, on each side, have found each other, at least for the time being, in this case. Today we are discussing a proposal from the Christian People's Party for better safety at sea. The proposal's intention is a safe boat life. The proposers relate this to the per mille limit for boat drivers and want to reduce the current per mille limit from 0,8 to 0,2. A unanimous committee is committed to reducing the number of drowning accidents. The Committee shall display, inter alia: to the letter of reply from the Minister of Industry, who supports the intention of good safety at sea, even when using a recreational boat, but that any new regulation must have a demonstrable effect, be evidence-based and contribute to reducing the number of accidents. The majority of today's drowning accidents are not from the boat, but from bathing and swimming, from land and from docks. In this context, it is important to focus attention on increased swimming skills. Another area of general importance for improving safety at sea is awareness-raising. The Committee would also stress the need for a robust level of control – control of existing regulations, both in order to achieve a general preventive effect and to prevent accidents. Police resources must be set up to provide the most effective fight against crime. We have good experience with the visible police in traffic. It works and has a good preventive effect, and everything suggests that one will have the same positive effect on the sea. The Committee would also point out that the State Committee on Transport is now working on a comprehensive review of all boat and drowning accidents. Their report will be an important provider of premises and facts for a separate communication on maritime safety, which the government will present during 2019. The Committee believes that it is necessary to look at what measures can be taken overall, as a whole, and not individually. It is logical and important to give priority to measures that will have the most demonstrable impact, and the Committee therefore believes that it is natural to look at what measures can be taken after the notification of maritime safety has been submitted and that we will come back to this in the examination of the notification. Consequently, the Committee does not wish to adopt the draft representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-15.ana.ud296e680	Thank you, Mr President, and the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. As the rapporteur pointed out, we agree that this matter comes back when we have a better knowledge base and a more comprehensive assessment of measures to reduce the number of drowning accidents. The rescue company publishes annually an overview of the drowning accidents in Norway. In 2018, 102 people died as a result of drowning. Of course, it's 102 too many, it's a very high number and actually quite the level of what we see in traffic. That in itself is worrying. If we look at the causal relationship, in 2018 47 died due to falls from land or brigade. 18 died during bathing. Of those who died from the boat, 17 were from a recreational boat and 5 were from a professional boat. So there is a large proportion of drowning accidents that are not related to boats, but still – well over 20 deaths from boats are too high. We also see that most of these are men. Furthermore, statistics show that there is good reason for increased attention to drowning accidents and the measures in question to reduce their size. At the same time, we need to have more knowledge of causality to ensure that the measures taken are effective measures that actually help to reduce the number of accidents. The representative's proposal focuses on the use of alcohol in boats. The Christian People's Party proposes to reduce the alcohol limit from 0.8 to 0.2 per million. Such a measure will have a real impact on drowning accidents only if there is an alcohol level between 0,2 and 0,8 per mille that is the cause of the accident. The State's Committee on Transport is now taking a closer look at the circumstances of accidents involving recreational craft, which provide us with a better knowledge of these causes. Regardless of this, some may argue that a reduction in the alcohol limit at sea will have a preventative effect and will be mind-provoking by bringing about a zero-tolerance approach to the use of alcohol in boats. The right will consider both this and other measures to strengthen maritime safety and reduce the number of accidents at sea, but we will await the forthcoming maritime safety impact assessment and the identification of causality before drawing a conclusion.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-15.ana.ud296e697	The representative proposal for better safety at sea has a good intention, but in the treatment of Prop. 51 L for 2014-2015 it was concluded that there was no basis for changing the per mille limit for recreational craft in order to avoid accidents. And we're not familiar with new knowledge that would justify a tightening of the promille limit. The centre party refers to the Committee’s reference to the forthcoming notification of maritime safety and it appears appropriate to address the issue of amended per-mile limit at sea in that review, based on a comprehensive, factual overview of the causes of drowning accidents.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-15.ana.ud296e704	First, thank you to the President-in-Office for his constructive work. The entire committee is behind it, and I think it is good that we do when there are things we agree that we can work together on. Improving safety at sea is an important area. The coast is long. We have a long-distance coast that is actively used with recreational boats and other types of boats, and I think that some of the most important things for safety is primarily to have respect for the sea, because an accident at sea can be very fatal. I also think that one of the most important things that each one can do is to do mind-building work, namely, to have respect for the sea, know how to behave, and not take any unnecessary chances. Very many schools along the coast run with sea-wet training, which is positive and very good. At the place I come from, the fishing community Havøysund, it is usually so that the rescue boat Elias is there once a year and has the training of the smallest, preferably kindergarten children, which also helps to teach them how to behave in given situations. Not least if you fall into the sea – at least north of the country, where it is very cold – it's very easy to lose control if you don't know what to do. So it's wise to train, automate and be aware of what to do if one comes in that situation. I also think it is important that each person takes responsibility for their own safety. I have e.g. registered that during the wart fishing in Finnmark, where there are very many small single boats fishing, they like to operate two and two – comrade boats, we call it – precisely because they need someone to help themselves if anything happens. So there's a lot of knowledge and experience related to this that shows that each one has to take responsibility. First of all, it is the responsibility of the boatmaster, but it is also the responsibility of the passengers. There's a lot we can do ourselves, it's an important topic, and I'm very happy that the government comes back to the Storing with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-15.ana.ud296e717	This is a matter that SV has considered very carefully. We have taken a serious look at the proposals of the Christian People's Party. We were together with the Christian People's Party on about the same proposal on per mille limit at sea in connection with the treatment of Prop. 51 L for 2014 to 2015 on the mandatory use of flotation equipment in recreational craft. Then the Christian People's Party and SV had some kind of mutual support, we must call it, since the Christian People's Party also supported our proposal to «reduce accidents caused by boats at too high a speed, including measures such as lowering the maximum engine power threshold without the boat driver's test, speed limits without the boat driver's test and new certification system for boat drivers who can achieve higher speeds.» SV believes that speed and promille are the worst possible combination at sea, as it is on land. Therefore, we should put these two components at the bottom when assessing safety at sea. There are many drowning accidents in this country. That has been said, among others. by the Chairman of the Committee. Many of the accidents occur at land level and at berth in party situations, it must be allowed to be said. But drowning isn't the whole picture. Collision between boats at high speed and/or inattentiveness in the case of hard and soft road users, such as road traffic, is a very important point. Then I think of high speed motorboats vis-à-vis kayaks, sailboards, etc. It's actually a growing problem. There's a lot of people out on the sea with sea kayaks. They're very hard to see in the waves. I know several people who paddle sea kayaks, and they're actually quite afraid of high-speed boats. As the evening approaches, some alcohol comes into the picture, and those who drive motorboats are a little less attentive, this is a very important point. All the time, you talk past each other in these matters -- unconscious, or maybe conscious. There's obviously something going on here, and it's the assessment of the lot position on the popularity barometers, which shines over both the mollusk, the holiday and the archipelago. It's not that popular to change the per million limit. We know that. But that's not why SV has chosen this time to participate in a unanimous vote by the Committee, which rejects the Christian People's Party's proposal. It is simply because, before concluding on measures, we should have had a comprehensive overview of all the factors involved in safety issues at sea. So I'm using the same argument as the other speakers so far, that we're waiting for two documents to be presented in the current year. I expect these two documents to significantly improve that knowledge base. For the first time, the State's marine casualty commission has surveyed recreational boat accidents in 2018, but also in the past, historically. They are now in the processing phase. The survey has consisted of two main tasks, they say on their websites. The first has been to obtain relevant and available factual information on all recreational boat accidents in 2018, where some have died or been missing. The second task has been to obtain data on historical pleasure boat accidents between 2008 and 2017 — even where there are no casualties or missing ones. It has therefore been intended to combine these sources for a more comprehensive overview of the number of recreational boat accidents and serious incidents in Norway every year. The other document we are waiting for, which has also been mentioned by the other speakers, is, of course, the announced maritime safety alert. SV will await these sources of knowledge and take a serious look at the question again.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-15.ana.ud296e736	The Christian People's Party wants as many as possible to have good experiences at sea. We want a safe and family-friendly boating life where the boat driver is not affected by alcohol. Safety at sea is about many factors in addition to per mille, but it's also about per mille. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to facilitate that those who want to travel by sea can do so without being plagued or misguided by the foolishness of others. Yes, maritime safety is about a lot, but the effect of promille is well known. The higher the mill, the higher the accident risk. Of course it is. The fact that many other measures should also be considered cannot stand in the way of doing anything about one of the actions we know will work, namely the per million limit. That is why I welcome the Committee's approach, as I read the committee's position. Although our proposal is not being adopted now, I see what the committee is writing, and there is no doubt that we have come further steps towards changing the per million limit this time. This matter has been discussed for a long time without any further progress being made. A 2017 study published by Kantar TNS Gallup shows that a total of 72 pst. by the Nordics, it should be the same per mille limit at sea as on the road. So the measurement shows that seven out of ten Norwegians are positive in lowering today's per mille limit for recreational boaters from 0.8 to 0.2 per mille. Now I believe that the time has come to make changes. We also see that developments in the boat market reinforce the need to adjust the per million limit. Today's pleasure boats can be both large and very fast. Boats that can reach more than 40 knots can be of great joy, but have at the same time great damage potential. It should therefore not, in our opinion, be lawful to drive such a boat with a promille. With 0.8 per million, there's no doubt that the judgment and reaction ability are very impaired. The Committee stresses the need for a sound level of control with existing regulations in order to achieve a general preventive efficiency. Of course, we fully agree with that. The Committee also emphasises that police resources need to be set up in such a way as to provide an effective fight against crime. I totally agree with that, too. We have to do several things at the same time, and not least it's important that those who break the per million limit are taken. However, I am pleased that the Committee is so clearly in favour of our intention to improve maritime safety, and that the per mille limit is one of the factors to be assessed in the maritime safety communication. It is good that issues of the per mill limit can be included in the overall review that the maritime safety communication will entail, and I agree, of course, with what is the Committee's starting point, that any new measures must be implemented on a factual basis and have a demonstrable impact. Here I am sure that adjusting the per mille limit at sea will be a right measure to ensure that as many as possible can have good and safe experiences at sea. The Christian People's Party will therefore vote in favour of the Committee's position today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-15.ana.ud296e755	Then there's really consensus on the very most. As others have mentioned here, before the summer we are going to present a big message about maritime safety, and there we are also going to talk about accidents related to the use of a recreational boat. It is then natural to look at different measures in the context, and I see that the Committee also believes. Furthermore, there is agreement that the inspection of a recreational boat is important. It is also important that the economic resources made available are prioritised in such a way as to provide the most effective fight against crime and the best possible result. I agree with the Committee that it is not appropriate to propose to lower the per million limit until we have more knowledge of the cause of accidents. The State Waterways Commission for Transport is monitoring recreational boat accidents in 2018 and the purpose of the survey is to establish a better knowledge base on the extent and circumstances of recreational boat accidents. They shall submit their report on 25 April. It is, of course, an important document for the big message. I can also add that the Directorate for Maritime Affairs has been given the task of drawing up an action plan on recreational boat accidents, in cooperation with the Expert Council for recreational craft, such as: consists of the Rescue Company, Royal Copenhagen Norwegian Boat Federation, the Coastal Agency and the Police Directorate, with more. They will complete it by June 2019, and hopefully there will also be good measures to continue working with.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-15.ana.ud296e766	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-15.ana.ud296e778	The size is therefore ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-15.ana.ud296e787	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Eirik Sivertsen, on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No 2, from Heidi Greni on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. One, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Decisions to the temporary law amending the law of division I In Law 15 June 2001 No. 70 on the establishment and modification of local and county limits is amended as follows: [[classification law]] Paragraph 17, second paragraph, point (a) is replaced by the following: (a) rules on statutory bodies of the State, county or municipality. This includes creating such bodies when people who have been created by law fail to do so II The Act shall enter into force immediately and shall be repealed on 31 December 2019.’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-15.ana.ud296e853	Alternatively, between the setting and proposal No. 2, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «Document 8:44 L Representative proposal by the deposit representatives André N. Skjelstad, Norunn Tveiten Benestad, Kari Kjønaas Kjos and Torhild Bransdal to amend the division law § 17 – not adopted.» [[2018–2019]] Behind the setting are the Right, Advance Party, Left and Christian People's Party. The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal, and the Workers' Party has announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-15.ana.ud296e872	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party will vote against this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-15.ana.ud296e886	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-15.ana.ud296e934	Referral case No 150 is proposed to be dealt with under Section 39(e) of the Rules of Procedure, which means that the matter is not dealt with. Marit Arnstad has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-15.ana.ud296e941	In the opinion of the Centre Party, where the case is admissible, it would also be natural for it to be brought up for consideration and sent to a committee. In contrast to the budgetary procedure, this would be an excellent opportunity to have a thorough review of the whole emergency response issue in North Norway. The centre party will therefore propose that this matter be dealt with in accordance with § 39, second paragraph, point (b) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-15.ana.ud296e946	The proposal is to keep today's number of helicopters at nine at Bardufoss. This is in content like proposal No. 16 from the Workers’ Party, which was treated in the context of the budget of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence on 13 December 2018, and is therefore to be considered as having been treated in the past and in accordance with the fifth paragraph of Section 38 of the Rules of Procedure. That is why the proposal should not be considered. The President therefore maintains the proposal that the minutes should be examined in accordance with the second paragraph (e) of Section 39 of the Rules of Procedure, which is not to deal with the matter. Alternatively, the proposal of the President and the proposal of the Central Party that the matter be dealt with in accordance with the second paragraph of Section 39 of the Rules of Procedure (b) of the Rules of Procedure shall be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-15.ana.ud296e960	As a result, the cases on today's map have been completed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? The President can't see that, and the meeting has been cancelled.
