ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e64	A number of permit applications are available: from the Workers' Group on the welfare leave of the representative Nina Sandberg as from 31 January until further notice from the representatives of Mona Fagerås, Himanshu Gulati, Svein Harberg, Ingrid Heggø, Silje Hemdal, Kirsti Leirtrø, Per Olaf Lundtägen, Tage Pettersen, Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen and Olemic Thommessen on leave from 3 February to 8 February and from the representative of Steinar Reiten on leave from 3 February to 6 February – all to participate in the study tour of representatives of Brussels On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Akershus County: Mani Hussaini 31 January and until further notice and Liv Gustavsen 5-7. February For East Agder counties: Arne Thomassen 5.–7. February For the Province of Buskerud: Sigrid Simensen Ilsøy 5-7. February For Hordaland County: Laila Reiertsen 5–7. February For More and Romesdal counties: Simon Molvær Grimstad 5–6. February For the Nordic counties: Marius Meisfjord Jøsevold 5-8. February For Uppland County: Kari-Anne Jønnes 5–7. February For Sogn and Fjordane counties: Hilmar Höl 5–7. February For Telemark County: Olav Urbø 5.–7. February For Sør-Trøndelag: Pål Sture Nilsen 5.–7. February For Eastfold counties: Monica Carmen Gåsvatn 5–7. February
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e192	Mani Hussaini is present and will take the seat. The representative, Karin Andersen, we are tabling two motions for a resolution.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e199	On behalf of Olivia Corso Salles, Kari Elisabeth Kaski, Freddy André Øvstegård, Mona Fagerås, Sheida Sangtarash and myself, I will make proposals to ensure the assistance and protection of child-trafficking offenders, so that they do not lose their residence permits and rights. Then I will put forward a proposal for a representative on behalf of the depositors Audun Lysbakken, Kari Elisabeth Kaski, Solfrid Lerbreck, Lars Haltbrecken and myself on the one-off payment of housing aid and the establishment of temporary arrangements to reach disadvantaged households with high energy price problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e206	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that Stortinget derogate from the provision of § 59, first paragraph, of Stortinget's Rules of Procedure and vote after case No. 1 has been completed, and then total voting according to case No. 2-8 at the end of today's meeting. No objection has been raised against the President's proposal. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Furthermore, the President will inform you that today's meeting will continue beyond noon if necessary. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e231	The matter being dealt with here has not been outside the regulatory period, i.e. 48 hours. On the basis of Paragraph 46 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the Stortinget should nevertheless deal with this matter now. No objection has been raised against the President's proposal. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. No one has asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e274	I have raised this debate because we are living in a challenging time, a time that is different from the time when the OSCE was established and the international commitments had greater commitment than they have today. I'll deal with three issues in particular. One is how Norway, at the Foreign Minister, follows up resolutions and international agreements to which the Member States have committed themselves, the other is about financing and strengthening electoral observer activities and local OSCE offices, and the third is how Norway can contribute to strengthening women’s position in the OSCE areas. All over the world, we are experiencing polarization, serious violations of human rights, oppression and exploitation of people. We live with the fear of terror, migration, climate change and the great transformations that take place in the form of digitisation and robotization of society and working life. And that's a little weird, because it's really going forward on a lot of parameters in the world. Several countries are developing in a democratic direction, there are fewer wars than before, and the world’s level of education and living conditions is improving. The equality between the sexes and the living conditions of gay, biphiles, lesbians and transpersons is getting better slowly, but surely. International organisations follow up more closely, information on repression, exploitation, abuse and human rights violations is shared, and monitoring is quite extensive. We have international institutions that promote health and disease prevention and contribute to crisis and emergency aid, democracy building and industrial development. But it's not quite all right in the world anyway. Among other things, we see: the emergence of anti-democratic movements that use the freedom of expression they want to deprive others of to promote hatred, division and anti-democratic structures. When I was at the Human Dimension Implementation Meeting in Warsaw in winter, something very surprising happened. This meeting is the largest collection of human rights organisations in Europe, and is an opportunity for them to, face to face, meet the Member State and tell about the violations of human rights they believe to be the country or countries. States have the right of defence so that they can promote their own views in a final round. This is a week’s conference – by the way, I wonder if there are two – and there are many participants. I was there as the Vice-President of the OSCE and listened to many articles about illegal imprisonment, about the persecution of minorities, harassment and exclusion of vulnerable people. But then there came an article that was critical of Muslims, who thought they had one goal: 'to take over the management of the West, and that much of the great demonstrations directed by organizations such as Defence Leeuge in England came into being with the background of provocations carried out by Muslims. Therefore, we should close the borders of all Muslims and prevent them from gaining access to positions in the West. Later on, several such articles came with similar content. In the round of answers there was only one country that took the floor, and it was Canada, who pointed to the paradox that many organizations use democracy and freedom of expression in civilised and democratic countries as an arena to prevent others from getting the same rights. Norway's main concern is to counter such anti-democratic forces and to prevent them from getting footholds in the OSCE. If we are to bring about changes in the OSCE, a determined and sustained political effort is required to increase understanding in order to follow human rights and prevent the emergence of totalitarian and anti-democratic movements and regimes. Can the Minister say a little about how Norway follows up and seeks to influence the Member States in our contacts with them in general, and what are the main challenges, as Norway and the Minister for Foreign Affairs sees it? It is also good if she can address the initiatives taken by Norway, and if initiatives are taken by other countries that Norway is behind, it is nice to be briefed on it. With regard to women’s rights in Member States among migrants and minority populations, there is a long way to go. The OSCE is concerned that the gender perspective is to be implemented within the organisation and through the organisation and the individual activities. The focus has been on the need to safeguard women’s perspective in peacekeeping operations, in the development of democracy and as an independent area for the follow-up of migrants. Women's rights are under heavy pressure. In particular, women living in challenging and vulnerable environments are exposed to violence and assault by men. These can often also be authorities. Amnesty made a report on women fleeing a few years ago, which demonstrated a high level of exploitation, sexualized violence and serious assaults committed against women in exile. Women in transition lack the ability to maintain their reproductive health in the form of contraceptives, health studies and follow-up during pregnancy, or to meet their nutritional needs when breast-feeding, for example. The OSCE PA has adopted several resolutions on the protection of women in refugees, which strengthen women's rights and point to the OSCE's responsibility to follow up women's participation in peace-keeping operations, precisely to strengthen women's perspective in those situations, to share knowledge of women's rights, and to ensure that individual states ensure that women can live independent and free lives, free from oppression and violence. A decision to this effect was also promoted and made by the Ministerial meeting as a follow-up to the PA's decision to this effect this summer, and Norway must be a clear voice for women's universal human rights. A woman has the right to determine her own life and reproductive capacity, no matter where she lives. How does the Minister for Women's Rights work? I know it's a topic that the minister has been concerned about, so it's fine if the minister gets into it in his post. A constant feature of most international organisations is that it is challenging in terms of funding. In this way, the OSCE is no exception. Here, too, we see Member States postponing payments and showing greater willingness to contribute funds and resources to some measures rather than providing the necessary resources for administrative operations. We see that it also affects one of the most important tasks of the OSCE, namely the election observation service – an essential task for ensuring and building both democratic processes and systems, and a task that gives hope to individuals, and not least to civil society organisations. There are several challenges to this task: the sustainability of observers, corruption, having good information about the country's governance, civil society and human rights challenges, and it is the emergence of observers invited by individual countries, often Russia, without saying that their observers have the necessary neutral position, which is absolutely essential for observers to have. This practice may undermine the confidence of the entire electoral observer system. The evidence of corruption in PACE was an alarm clock, and I'm glad that the OSCE has now started work on ethical guidelines for its electoral observers. For election observations to have the necessary confidence, it is important that the ODIHR and the long-term observers do their job. It means money to and funding the local OSCE offices. What is Norway doing to ensure that local OSCE offices are maintained and that long-term observers can carry out their tasks in the best possible way?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e302	I would first like to take the opportunity to commend the efforts of the representative Henriksen as the Vice-President of the OSCE PA. The post she made, including: on the gender perspective, during the annual supervisory conference, mentioned above, has been noted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e307	I would also like to take the opportunity to invite all members of the Great Britain delegation to the OSCE PA to make an extra effort to make the important work of the OSCE known to the population. For the OSCE, an organisation that is not very often involved in the public debate is not. That is why it is important for this interpellation to come, as the representative Henriksen and I discussed when we were at the ministerial meeting in December. The OSCE is an important organisation for Norway and for European security. Unfortunately, we see a lack of respect for international obligations and a worrying movement away from a rule-based international order. This is a problem issue and a topic I'm very concerned about and have addressed in many contexts in the last year. Polarisation and confrontation, reversing and combating international obligations and rules-based order are not unique to the OSCE. When policies in many countries become more introverted, the multilateral system is challenged. Unfortunately, the situation in the OSCE reflects political, economic and social developments both in the region and globally. The interpellant points to the OSCE consensus rule and how it is used to block progress and activity, and not to agree on substantive decisions that can take a step further. When we both attended the OSCE ministerial meeting in December, we saw how individual countries have a low threshold to use the consensus rule to block decisions. This makes it difficult to adopt decisions that contain guidance and political statements on important issues in our time. At the same time, the consensus rule makes it difficult to change what you've already agreed on, and that means to change in a negative direction. That's good. In difficult times, policies must increasingly be geared towards defending the victories of democracy and human rights achieved. The OSCE consensus rule can therefore be important for participating countries that do not wish to reverse the commitments we have agreed on the longest. The OSCE also has three autonomous institutions: the Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights, the High Commissioner for National Minorities and the Media Freedom Representative. These have all strong and lasting mandates which can only be changed by consensus. Their daily activities continue with unimpaired force, despite difficulties in the intergovernmental dialogue. Let me say a few words about the commitment to media freedom. The OSCE representative for media freedom is Europe's only intergovernmental monitoring mechanism in the field. The representative’s mandate has become increasingly relevant in a world of increasing propaganda, disinformation and ‘fake news’. Norway is a significant contributor to this work. As I see it, the OSCE is an essential instrument for protecting and preserving the European security order. It is an organisation which, through decades of negotiations and dialogue, has developed standards and rules on security and human rights, on the basis of the historic Helsinki Final Act of 1975. It is a comprehensive document that was groundbreaking in its time. With its overall approach to security and cooperation to the east-west, a relatively progressive document contributed to stability based on certain basic principles and values. East-west security cooperation established. It is difficult to imagine today agreeing on a similar document, and it is in Norway's interest to protect the values and obligations of the normative framework of the OSCE. It is a matter of maintaining international law and multilateral institutions that have proved useful in previous times of crisis. But Norway cannot do the job alone. In other words, we must build alliances. Within the framework of the OSCE, it is possible to highlight and press Member States for the fulfilment of their human rights obligations. In August 2018 Norway and 14 other Member States invoked the Vienna mechanism against Russia. This meant that Russia had to respond within 10 days to how the country had handled allegations of massive human rights abuses in Chechnya in 2017. In November 2018, as one of 16 countries, when Russia rejected the allegations as groundless, Norway participated in activating the OSCE’s Moscow mechanism. The implementation involved the carrying out of an expert review of the reported human rights violations. Russia did not choose to cooperate on the review. The report was published in the OSCE Permanent Council on 20 December and confirmed serious human rights violations in Chechnya against LHBTI persons, human rights activists, independent journalists and lawyers. The process has contributed important evidence that can be used to help improve the MR situation in Chechnya, including outside OSCE cooperation. However, otherwise it is also the case that Norway shall, on a weekly basis, prosecute participant countries for breaches of their obligations under the OSCE cooperation, whether in relation to the illegal annexation of the territory of other countries, or to violations of human rights or the use of the death penalty. Unfortunately, progress has been such that where countries have previously experienced what has been a concern to be made public about their breach of obligations, they do not now care, or they use the criticism to promote it as propaganda in their own countries. This is a very worrying development. Interpellant points out that several of the OSCE’s field presences have been reduced to countries where there is a great need for presence and follow-up. This is quite correct and, unfortunately, there is again an unfortunate outcome of the use or abuse of the veto power of some participating countries under the consensus rule. The OSCE field offices, or the so-called broadcasting teams, are in many ways the most operational of the OSCE's core tasks. They provide advice and support to authorities and civil society in a number of participating countries. Several of them are key contributors to important democratisation. Because some participating countries look with increasing scepticism at so-called interference in internal affairs, some of the broadcasting teams are more under pressure than others. Some of them have unfortunately also been closed down. However, it is positive that we still have 16 OSCE missions in individual countries that make a formidable effort. It is important that their work continues with unreduced strength. Therefore, Norway is also increasing its efforts to support the OSCE’s activities, mainly in the field of the OSCE’s practical work. This means that Norwegian funds are provided to projects implemented by the OSCE in participating countries in need of such support. The Norwegian contributions are channelled through the OSCE Secretariat in Vienna, via broadcasting teams in the participating countries and under the direction of participating Norwegian and local organisations and NGOs. The interpellant asks what can be done to strengthen the OSCE's three dimensions in its foreign policy efforts against other countries that block and counter the OSCE's value base. The overall objective of Norway’s efforts in the OSCE is to promote stability and security in our part of the world, where, for Norway, the OSCE complements the role played by NATO and other international and regional organisations. Norwegian support is provided for project activities in all three dimensions. Norwegian interests are particularly linked to specific areas where human rights, democracy and good governance have a central place. So what can Norway do in the context of the OSCE? One part is the activity of the Norwegian OSCE delegation in Vienna. The key decisions were taken. In the ongoing campaign of values in the OSCE, Norway is a clear voice each week for human rights, democracy and rule of law, and we are indicting violations of the commitments of the OSCE Permanent Council, either alone or in conjunction with the EU and other like-minded people. The OSCE's efforts are mainly in the field and, through mandatory and significantly increased voluntary contributions over the past year, Norway supports the efforts of the OSCE institutions and missions. Nearly 3,000 of the OSCE's 3,500 employees work there. These work on concrete projects related to institution building, conflict prevention and human rights across the OSCE region, and not least weapons peace observation in Ukraine through the observer force SMM. I myself visited it and the Norwegian observers who are there, at the contact line in eastern Ukraine, in September. In particular, Norway has supported increased efforts in which we consider that the OSCE has the best assumptions to make a difference. It concerns the role of the OSCE in preventing conflict. In 2018, we supported this through efforts for equality, media freedom, security sector reform and the prevention of violent extremism. Geographically, we have also increased our involvement through personnel and project funding to the OSCE in our neighbourhoods, south and east of Europe. I would also like to highlight the significant work done by the OSCE on observation of elections in the member countries of the organisation. Norway also participates here. We appreciate the efforts of several previous and current representatives in this work. In particular, we politicians have a clear responsibility to do what we can to strengthen the OSCE. It's whether we're in government or we're in the Great Britain's delegation to the OSCE PA, and it's through election observation. At present, the OSCE is characterised by increasing contradictions and rivalry between several of the central participating countries. We are witnessing a reduced level of trust between individual participating countries. Nevertheless, there is reason to both hope and believe that the OSCE can once again act as a useful and predisposing organisation as the global situation changes in the longer term. From the Norwegian side, we put in considerable effort to create and maintain trust. We realize that this is a laborious and time- and resource-consuming work, but it is very important that it is done in the current situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e345	Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for a very good and thorough presentation. I think that the Minister brings forward important issues, which show that Norway — both as a country and as an individual — has a major task in front of it in carrying out an active work. Some of the things the minister had in mind were propaganda and conspiracy theories. We read in the media -- at least I read it down in the South, I think it was in the national media -- that young people hear a lot of conspiracy theories online, and that some of the teachers were a little confused because it's so massive, and it's kind of hard to get the real content of that kind of information. So if the minister could just say a little about whether we have a strategy -- because I think it's as important as OSCE member countries to be a driver to promote true information in Norway about what's happening in OSCE countries. We sit in the OSCE and see how, among other things, Russia and some other countries are using propaganda against Norway as elements of their discussion, which are ‘fake news’ or news that has turned their heads upside down, and which makes it difficult for us OSCE delegates to get the debate on some issues on a case-by-case basis. So if the minister could say a little bit about that strategy. Because I think that we should be able to counteract the forces we see in this area, we also need to build it up in our own country, so that more representatives of bigots and ministers are clear about what is truth and proper and factual information, and what is propaganda information. I think that's an important problem. So a little bit about this with the election observation. I just want to tell you about an episode from when I was driving with election observer practice. Then there was a lady I asked about always going and voting – there was really no intention of voting in that country, it had almost never been – and then she said: Yes, I go and vote every year. Why did I say that? Because I want my children and grandchildren to get better than me, she said then I: so you think it has a meaning to vote? Then she looked at me, and then she said, "No, but you must never stop coming, because you give me hope." I think we should help to strengthen this, as election observation practices are an incredibly important democracy builder. One of the things the minister also mentioned was with funding. If she could say a little about the big picture in Norway – are we still on the offensive with regard to the OSCE as a basic organisation, or are we moving towards more project funding and individual project support?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e360	I would first like to add a few comments to something I did not get to say in my first post, which is based on what the representative took up. We're taking a lot of initiatives in the OSCE, especially in the field of equality. A programme is now being developed to strengthen the gender dimension in the transmission layers, among others. We have just also published our fourth National Action Plan on Women, Peace and Security, UN Security Council Resolution 1325, where the very point of female participation in peace-keeping operations and, in general, the role of women in both peace mediation and peace agreements is an unusually important part. We've also taken some initiatives to bring together regional brokerage teams of women from around the world, because I'm getting tired of hearing that there are no female brokers -- they exist to the highest degree, and we need to show them. Women, peace and security are priorities in the new software package, which also applies to several other things, but we are going to use approximately. 60 million. kr on different projects in the OSCE in 2018. What is always a balance is the choice between core support for an organisation and project support. We want to be strong both places, because we believe that the OSCE is a very important organization. But in the OSCE it has also been that the field work over many years has not been high enough, and we see how much impact the field work actually has, even in difficult areas. That's why we're using resources on it. So to the question of truth, propaganda and fake news. It is an unusually difficult issue, but the Minister of Knowledge was also out there commenting on the very matter referred to by the representative, that it is very positive that teachers – as the teacher we heard about – are alert and take care of the problem. The fact that relatively young people get their information through what you really can't know is false news or real news, that you see conspiracy theories and bring them on, is sometimes a very serious situation. We see how much more difficult it has been to distinguish true information from false information, and a lot of the false information is deliberately released. That's why it's so important to use the mechanisms we have here at home, but also to raise these issues in a more international perspective. One of the important things for us to do in the OSCE is to take the word every time someone promotes something that is obviously wrong. Objection! It may not help there or there, but it is an important aspect of not accepting the premises on which part of the debate is held. We saw some of the same in the context of the discussion on the Global Migration Platform in Norway, that part of the information that came out was not correct – but it was difficult to reverse.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e373	I would like to thank the representative Kari Henriksen for a very good and important contribution, and the Foreign Minister for what I think was a good answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e378	I believe that the Storting should discuss our policies more often and our work in the international organisations Norway is part of – what Norway can contribute to, and what should be our policy within the organisations. Here we often agree across the parties, and this probably leads to less debate. That's a shame, because the international organizations are only as strong as the Member States themselves are helping to do it. We now see a negative trend, we see that there are many countries that are withdrawing and running with their own rules. We should then remind ourselves of the importance of international cooperation, not least how important it is for Norway, and that Norway, as a small country, has everything to do with the functioning of international cooperation. There's nothing we can take for granted, that's something we have to work hard for. The OSCE is, as both the representative Kari Henriksen and the foreign minister were involved, a very important organisation, but it is receiving little attention today. I think it is a pity that Norway chose to draw its candidacy to the OSCE Presidency in 2020. I think it would have been good both for Norway and for the OSCE, but I know, and I hear very clearly from the Foreign Minister's answer, that Norway has great ambitions to be an active partner. I want to use this article to address two issues that I believe are among the issues that Norway should engage in within the OSCE. The first is the question of choice — the OSCE plays a very important role in being present in election observation. Elections are at the very heart of democracy – without good elections it is not a democracy. In the past, reporting and discussing choices was easier. You could easily see that people went in and out of the poll, and how the media behaved, and at least you had a certain overview of the economic situation of the different parties and candidates. Today we see that it is much more difficult and much more complicated. We've seen how foreign actors influence elections, and we know how the spread of false news can change people's attitudes. There are threats that can enter a country, and they can come from foreign countries and from individuals and organisations. What does the world do if what looks like democratic elections ends up being illegitimate? Does the world have a good enough overview of the threats we see today, and not least those that can come in the future? The second question I want to raise, which was also raised by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, is the issue of sexual minorities. Unfortunately, there is a clear negative trend in our own neighbourhoods too. We see that the law is tightened up against homosexuals, lesbians and transgenders, who are subjected to violence, assault and harassment. Worst is the situation in Chechnya, where homosexuals are literally tortured to death. It was good and important for Norway to take part in the initiative of the report which, in a cruel way, demonstrated reality. Norway must continue to engage internationally and bilaterally. This is a field that many countries refuse to address, which is why it is important for Norway to do so. I hope that the Minister for Foreign Affairs can say something more about how Norway wants to follow up that report, to which Norway contributed. In these questions, we're going to engage where it's very bad, and we're also going to engage where there's a milder form of harassment. We now see that there are many cities and capitals that arrange Pride to be met with threats and violence. I would like to thank, through the Minister for Foreign Affairs, all the capable ambassadors and embassies who are doing a very important job of organizing Pride around the world and participating in it in a very good way. Then we must be able to say that it is a paradox that we have now received the first family minister for a long time who says that he will not be on the same mark here at home in Norway. We know that symbols play an important role in the fight for rights, so in this area I would say that Norway sends bad signals. We spent the whole yesterday discussing the new statement. I did not follow the whole debate, but much of it, and that was a point that I do not think was mentioned, but I would now like to take the opportunity to commend the government for, and that is to look at the possibility that Norway can contribute to a sanction regime against people who commit gross violations of human rights. I think this is an interesting and exciting thought, which we should also use the OSCE to discuss. If the minister has time in his relatively short post now afterwards, it could be exciting if she had any thoughts about how the government intends to follow it up. Finally, I would like to thank all my colleagues in the OSCE delegation for their very good cooperation. It's good to see that at international meetings there's much more that unites us than it is that separates us, and that we work together for our common values and what's in Norway's interest.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e393	First of all, I would like to take the opportunity to thank the interpellant for raising this matter, perhaps not least for her involvement in the OSCE and for the important work being done there on behalf of Norway. In his speech in the OSCE Council of Ministers in December, President Tsereteli recalls that the priority for the OSCE is the pursuit of peace, security and stability. Instead, we see that the organisation is characterized by disunity and armed conflict between member countries. There are major challenges within all three dimensions of the OSCE's comprehensive concept of collective security, and the region is characterised by uncertainty and instability. The OSCE as an organisation and cooperation between countries will always be as strong as the Member States themselves want it to be. When countries depart from international agreements that have ensured stability and emerge in new arms races, an active OSCE is needed as a forum for genuine trust building between east and west. In a rain of criticism and indebtedness, it is more important than ever that the countries that are in charge of this and have the possibility to do so show that they are fulfilling and implementing the obligations that all countries have voluntarily entered into. And trust has to be stressed where he is present, so Norway is an important country and has an important role to play. As populists from the OSCE Member States, we in the OSCE PA have expressed concern about how little effective, and eventually perhaps even a little dysfunctional, OSCE may have become. Many of these are just from the consensus rule, on which the OSCE PA has been called for, or should be reduced, at least in terms of technical matters such as the budget and agenda for meetings in the organisation. Now the consensus rule is used to block each other. The election observation, which Mr Henriksen has spoken about warmly, is an important contribution – a very important contribution to the maintenance of democratic standards and human rights in the OSCE region. I am very happy that we have this debate in the Chamber today, and I am happy that the interpellant is travelling this and is busy with the issues. I am not least pleased with the Minister's presentation, where she stressed that the government sees the importance of the OSCE and the strengthening of its work there. I look forward to further cooperation for the initiatives taken here by the government in all areas to ensure peace, security and stability in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e408	First of all, I would like to thank the representative Kari Henriksen for lifting the work of the OSCE PA and the OSCE into the Storting through this interpellation. The work carried out by the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe is based on the 1975 Helsinki Declaration. The values of this Agreement remain the same. In Helsinki, heads of state from Europe, the United States and Canada met. The final declaration at this conference was signed by 35 countries, and it is about fundamental human rights, freedom of the press, respect for borders and the willingness to resolve conflicts without the use of violence. The essence of the Helsinki Declaration is that respect for human rights is essential for the preservation of peace and cooperation between states. The declaration was signed by, inter alia, Helmut Schmidt from West Germany, Erich Honecker from East Germany, Ford from the United States and Leonid Breshnev from the Soviet Union. For Norway it was Prime Minister Trygve Bratteli who signed. I think it's historic to think back to the people who were involved and signed this agreement. But we see that there is a wrong way for many of the important principles that were established. I am, as the leader of the OSCE PA delegation, very concerned that we have to drag these 57 countries that make up the OSCE today, to see the value of the lines and principles that form the basis of the OSCE. In the Norwegian OSCE PA delegation, we focus on important issues, and more in our delegation stand out and are visible internationally. The representative Kari Henriksen was elected Vice President of the OSCE PA last year – that is very good. Vice-President Abid Q. Raja has started the winter meeting in Vienna and has been appointed as a member of the Anti-Terrorist Subcommittee. Delegate Åsmund Aukrust, who made an intervention here earlier, has initiated, in conjunction with the Helsinki Committee, an event at the forthcoming winter meeting on the subject of ‘punishments for human rights violations’. Everyone participates in international debates, and that's very good. The focus on human rights violations is very important. Previous articles have focused on the abuses and killings of homosexuals, lesbians, biphilis and transpersons — especially in Chechnya. It is very good that Norway was one of the 16 countries that used the Moscow mechanism to address this. The Minister of Foreign Affairs has already explained some of this, but I want to ask her to be even more specific about what Norway will do to prevent more abuses and killings of lesbians, gays, biphiles and trans-persons in Chechnya, if we can get a clarification of this – because we cannot live with this torture, that people are being pressured to kill family members because of sexual orientation. Finally, I would like to mention this with freedom of the media, which the Minister for Foreign Affairs has also mentioned. Norway tops the ranking that Reporters Without Borders have presented, and I think it gives us in Norway a special responsibility to raise this through the OSCE system.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e423	First of all, I would like to thank the inter-pellant, who is also the Vice-President of the OSCE PA, and not least the Minister for Foreign Affairs for a very forward-looking response. It promises well for how we can be better at following up the resolutions and the work done in the OSCE PA. I haven't been there for a long time. I was actually invited to begin the winter meeting there last February about how we in Norway work on integration, linked to extremism. Then I also got a seat in the OSCE PA, partly because Ola Elvesuen became the Council of State, and in the expert committee Countering Terrorism. I'll draw out two or three stories from there. One of the visits went to Bosnia-Herzegovina – we were on two field visits. There are unique experiences of such visits. We met two who are now working on reconstruction after the enmity that was formed there during the war. Two of them we had lunch with were friends before the war. They shot each other during the war. One said, "I had him in the binoculars." He was a sniper and joked that he let him go. The other said, "I don't think he let me go – had he got the chance, he had slapped me down." But they were friends again. They were friends, they became enemies, and they became friends again. It's a rather unique story that I think you can learn from -- how to build cooperation and peace after extreme evil and difficult conflicts, where more family members on both sides were killed by each other's groupings. Another field visit in Bosnia-Herzegovina went to a prison where we met prisoners who had returned after being foreign fighters. Some of them regretted of course what they had participated in, while others looked towards the delegation and said, "If we had the chance..." Then they took the finger, put it on their throats and signaled that they would have cut off our heads if they had the chance to do it. In Norway, and in the rich part of the West, there will certainly be some programmes in place for how to reintegrate some of those who have been foreign warriors. But what we heard there was that in reality there was no program to work with these who were in prison. They were given relatively short sentences, and they are going out again both in that society and in Europe. It is clear that this should be a concern and is a concern shared by most countries in Europe. A unique experience in the OSCE PA, as I see it, is also to meet parliamentarians from many other countries, with completely different traditions, cultures and political ways of working. But we have relatively similar challenges, for example: This field of extremism, in which I have been very committed, Europe has between 3,000 and 5,000 foreign fighters. A huge amount of them are killed, a certain number of them have returned, and several will return. How do we deal with that problem? Will there be a completely different way of dealing with this in France — or in Germany — than in Norway? Should there be a set of minimum standards for how we handle this? And if some other countries don't deal with it in a good way: what kind of security challenges does it represent for Norway when we have pretty free borders to move across? These are clearly concerns shared by many other European countries – not just us. Next week I look forward to going to Paris. The Ad Hoc Committee on Extremism will visit the environment in Paris that is now working with children of foreign fighters coming back to France, and look at how they are working on ‘rewashing’ them – I don’t know what to use for this – and I look forward to learning what they are doing. Some children have been indoctrinated while in ISIL clay. How does France, which is in front of Norway, work to bring these children back to French society and become part of it without being a threat to French society? I think the lesson I'm going to learn there, will certainly be useful here in Norway too, because we know that there are also Norwegian children born in captivity out there. Some of them will come to Norway and the way Norway faces the challenges ahead is important. I look forward to following that debate, and I am very pleased that the Minister of Foreign Affairs is signaling that this should continue to work with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e441	I want to thank the interpellant for a very important and good interpellation. I'm not going to talk so much about the OSCE, but I wanted to say a few words about the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly, which I also feel is partly relevant to the interpellation. Majority involvement in the Council of Europe is an important counterweight to much of what the interpellation addresses, namely increasing pressure on human rights, dialogue and democracy. Also, PACE is in a time of great challenges. We have some uncertainties where the outcome is going to shape European policies for many years to come. For five years now, Russia has been completely absent from the work of PACE. In June, two years have passed since the paid membership quotas, which in turn has created considerable uncertainty in PACE. The PACE economy has been seriously affected and is a major topic for the election of the new Secretary-General of the Council of Europe in June. The conflict between Member States and the increasing internal tension in Europe that has been mentioned by previous speakers also prevails in PACE, where 47 countries sit at the same table and share the same values. However, by just attending a meeting — 1 out of 17 — where the themes concern, for example: Ukraine's question, you can really see that the contradictions are very big, and sometimes increasing. How to strengthen the PACE and the Council of Europe have also been a major theme in the Parliamentary Assembly in recent years. PACE adopts a wide range of resolutions and reports through its four sessions during the year. And even though it is primarily the national parliaments that are to follow them up, it is also the fact that parliamentarians must ensure that their governments follow up the resolutions and recommendations that come from PACE, which include: was the theme of the Nicoletti report, on the future role and values of the PACE. In the January session last week it was among other things. a topic that was quite relevant to Norway and a report was adopted. It was about citizenship and excluding some citizenship as a result of being convicted of terrorism. A resolution was adopted that I feel was not in conflict with the Norwegian legislation we now have in that area. However, there was a very interesting debate in the light of the discussion that has taken place in Norway. In addition, policies and resolutions were adopted with regard to the increasingly difficult situation of opposition politicians in Turkey, as it might be interesting to hear how the Minister for Foreign Affairs follows up. Many interventions have been discussed to improve the situation in PACE, including to increase the influence of PACE in national congregations. One thing I have noticed is that there are a number of resolutions to be agreed on, but a large part of the Parliamentary Assembly is simply not in favour of adopting, because there are no attendance requirements, no consensus requirements. It makes you free to adopt policies, but to what extent all the 47 Member States feel obliged to follow up the decisions that have been taken, I think you can ask a few questions. I just wanted to raise some reflections as a member of the PACE, and hope that the international work Stortinget does, remains important for many years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e460	First to the representative Enger Mehl: it's very nice that PACE also engages in that debate, and as she says, we have many common issues in the international forums of the Stortinget. It is also an arena to perhaps coordinate and improve some of the efforts they need to raise important challenges jointly, especially in Europe, but also in the world today. Then I must say that I am very pleased that we have the foreign minister we have. It is very positive to be an international delegate and experience that our foreign minister is getting so much respect and being met with so many good words. I appreciate that. I know that there is a lot of hard work behind it, and the Secretary of State's work on human rights, peace and equality is being noticed. That's good. I also think that as a small country, we have three advantages – and that is the only advantage we have. It's that we've always stood up for human rights, that we've always fought for equality, and that we've been foremost in peace and democracy construction. That is what we have, and if we fail in any of the three areas, Norway has no place in the big European picture, in my opinion. That's where we have the authority. That's where we have respect. Building and screwing up some hacks to combat the anti-democratic and the developments we see in the West, I think is very important. I also agree with the Foreign Minister when she mentions the current consensus rule. We see in all international forums that now most states are holding on to what they have, because they're afraid to lose it if there's a big change in how to deal with rules and agreements. There are three things I want to mention in the end. It is not to continue the debate, I just want to point out that there are areas that are not particularly affected in this debate, but that are important. One is that we have a NB8 collaboration, and a Nordic-Baltic cooperation like that, I think one has in other delegations as well. It is an important venue for coordinating our policies and perhaps prioritizing what is to be addressed at the various meetings at the different times. We have received the refugee situation on the first page of the media today. It is a huge crisis in the OSCE Member States, and it is a huge polarization linked to the refugee debate. So it's also important that we handle it properly. Finally, I would like to mention the Helsinki Committee, which has pointed to the possibility of building civil society without being taken as part of the conflict. There we also need to be clearer and promote arrangements that allow us to do both.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e477	Thanks again to the interpellant for raising an important topic and for a good debate. I would like to see it last even longer, but we'll take what we get in this round. Then my follow-up on some of the questions is necessarily a bit jumpy, but I'll try to cover as much as possible. One important point is the media freedom representative’s work, which may be one of the most important tools we have to deal with what the interpellant had to say about fake news and dealing with propaganda and misinformation. A fairly large part of the project funds we grant goes, among other things. to the conferences held by the Media Freedom Representative regionally, and we have seen that it is an important tool. So the Wergeland Centre also does a lot of good work in terms of education, especially in Ukraine, and it has been an important part of the follow-up to some of the same issues. In 2018, we were one of the biggest donors of voluntary contributions in the OSCE. That's something that's being noticed very well, but we're also trying to contribute in other areas. The Slovak presidency now and the coming Albanian presidency next year we support with secondary staff, and we also contribute in other ways because the countries have asked us to help. So let's do that. To the representative of Åsmund Aukrust: I will pass on the thank you to the ambassadors. They'll be happy for that. It's a little too little time to get into sanctions regimes, etc. Now, but I'd like to get back to it, but the follow-up to the report is going on in other organisations. Last night in the Council of Europe, it was lifted. We also do it bilaterally and in cooperation with the many very strong and good organisations working with MR, both in Russia and in other OSCE countries. This is something we think is important to follow up, because it's a problem that I unfortunately don't think disappears with the first. As brief as the representative Emilie Enger Mehl mentions – I think it is very good that the Council of Europe also comes into the debate and discussion. This is a problem that is difficult to deal with, but for the government, one of the most important things to think is that if Russia is not part of the Council of Europe, we are in a situation where 142 million people are denied access to the European Court of Human Rights. It's one of the most important and difficult things. We also see the infectious effect that it can have, which also worries us. In the end, I want two things advertised. One is that on 24 May Norway, at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs together with the United Nations, organises a large conference in Oslo on sexual and gender-based violence in humanitarian situations, including conflicts. There is a warm welcome for all the big business representatives. The second is that in June we are now promoting a big message about Norway's role and position in multilateral cooperation. I hope it will give rise to more debates of this kind.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e492	The debate on substance is closed. So 2 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e508	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, three rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e517	The first speaker is Mr Engen-Helgheim, who is speaking on behalf of the rapporteur, Mr Kjønaas Kjos.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e520	The Centre Party has promoted a proposal for a representative on the health risk of residential building on old waste landfills. A monitoring of old waste landfills, an updated assessment of health risks and an assessment of the need for new national measures are proposed. The Directorate-General for the Environment's database 'Grunnpollution' contains information on different types of pollution at ground level, including old waste landfills. Here, 2,100 landfills are registered. Quality assurance of basic pollution is a specified task in the letter of assignment to Fylkesen in 2018. The Directorate-General for the Environment works with the County to raise awareness and use of the database in municipalities, for example: by arranging courses. Health and environmental risk issues are addressed at municipal level by planning according to the Planning and Building Act. Municipalities themselves must ensure that areas devoted to housing are suitable for the purpose. Impact assessment and risk and vulnerability analysis shall be carried out. The Planning and Building Act provides good rules to ensure that health and pollution concerns are addressed in the planning of new residential areas. More and more stringent waste management requirements have been set in recent years. Regulation on the landfill of waste entered into force in 2002. Skedsmo Municipality has been used as an example of horror in the matter. The municipality was aware that it was a landfill with gas formations when they granted permission for construction at Brånåsen landfill. Prior to the adoption of the regulatory plan, the requirements for construction were laid down in a land-sharing plan, but those requirements were not included in the regulatory plan. Thus, a mapping would not prevent the situation in Skedsmo. Rome's Blade has covered the matter closely, a case that has put many families in a hopeless and insecure situation, and the municipality has spent a lot of resources on measures and buying houses. Norway’s Environmental Protection Association has notified the municipality of a number of offences. The municipality – which had a red-green government when the landfill was in operation, when it was shut down, and when the building permit was granted – now says that they would not have allowed construction there today. The public health institute has made an up-to-date assessment of the health risk by building on or near old waste landfills. The Institute will review the need to amend the National Health Councils. The Environment Directorate will look at how they can improve and simplify their guidance on landfills to municipalities during 2019. The majority believe that municipalities have enough legislation and knowledge to avoid scandals similar to those in Skedsmo.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e535	There are no national figures on the number of people living in or at landfills. It's the NRK that's done this kind of mapping, as the authorities should have done, and they've done that by connecting the SSB numbers to maps from the Environment Directorate. It shows that in Norway there are more than 185 000 people, divided into over 90 000 dwellings, living at or near a landfill. That's a lot of people. Ensuring that dwellings are not built in places that pose a health risk is also a national responsibility. I'll come back to why. Norway thus has a poor overview of contaminated land if we compare ourselves with our neighbouring country Sweden and Denmark. There are also likely to be large dark spots because in Norway we do not have information about waste types that have been wasted. It's a knowledge that could have made a difference. The parties agree, of course, that it is the municipalities which have planning authority under the Planning and Building Act and therefore have a clear responsibility to ensure that areas regulated for residential purposes are safe and do not pose a health risk. At the same time, government and ageing have overall national responsibilities to support public health work in municipalities. According to Chapter 5 of the Public Health Act, a number of State actors have a legal requirement to facilitate national public health policies and to be drivers of knowledge-based public health work locally, to provide information, advice and guidance, to provide an overview of factors affecting health, and to assist both municipalities and county municipalities in relation to exposure to health-damaging environmental factors – precisely to protect the health of the population. It is therefore not possible to show that this is only the responsibility of the municipalities, as the Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party in the Committee do. That's what the Public Health Act says. In the National Audit Office’s Public Health Survey, Document 3:11 for 2014-2015, one of the main findings is that there is a need to strengthen the follow-up of municipal public health work by the State. Therefore, from an overall assessment and, inter alia, from the point of view of the centre, the Commission considers that: having regard to the Public Health Act, there is a great need for the State to also contribute to knowledge-based public health work that can help to prevent citizens from being exposed to health risks by building dwellings on waste landfills. It is difficult to conclude that better monitoring could not have prevented the situation at Brånåsen landfill. The most important means of monitoring is to obtain a simultaneous and up-to-date knowledge-based assessment of health risks. It may prevent similar situations from occurring elsewhere. The Public Health Institute is now considering, as the working rapporteur was concerned, changing its general National Health Council on waste landfills in the light of the events in the Brånåsen. This shows the seriousness of the matter, and I would like to stress that this work should be given priority. That is good, but the measure is not sufficient to prevent more serious incidents and that more dwellings in the future could pose a health risk. I therefore ask that the Chamber support the Senterpartiet and the SV's proposal, and include it in the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e552	The representative of Willfred Nordlund has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e557	I support the post just made by the representative Willfred Nordlund. What I think is very worrying is that we don't have a complete overview of this, and that you argue so strongly that it's a unilateral municipal responsibility. It can't be. It is, of course, a municipal responsibility, but it is also the responsibility of the state to help us get an overview of this, and that sufficient emphasis is also given by the state when talking about how the municipalities are going to handle their affairs, for example. by the Law on Planning and Building. This is because many municipalities probably do not have enough competence for this type of risk. An issue that SV has been concerned with on many occasions now is that we need to ensure that the municipality has the competence to handle these matters properly. Otherwise, politicians do not get the right advice when they have to decide whether to build it or not. There is now a great pressure in many areas of development. Local politicians are under quite great pressure for these developments to take place. If you don't have the skills and don't have a proper overview of this, you can risk getting bad advice and continue building in areas where you shouldn't have built. The consequences can be serious, and the matter in Skedsmo is probably such a terrible example that I think it also seems preventative in a lot of municipalities. Many have found out how wrong this is. I think that the majority and the state – and also the minister – should be involved in the need to monitor this, that they are involved in ensuring that the municipalities have competence in this, and that, when you are going to enter and give the municipalities greater freedom in these areas, this is one of the issues that must be at the back of your mind when you look at what municipalities should not object to from the state. It also requires that the State has a very high level of consciousness in its apparatus, which should be able to raise objections to these plans – to put a stop – if this is an area where there may be such a risk. I have no expertise in this area, but there is no doubt that these areas also change over time, and that there may be new problems where no one was seen before, so a screening is necessary. That is why, together with the Central Party, we are promoting proposals on this today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e568	In the Christian People's Party, we have a good rule to test out concrete things against the basic ideological principles on which we are based. When I tested this case against the principle of subsidiarity, i.e. that decisions and responsibilities should be at the lowest appropriate level, it became even clearer to me that this is a municipal responsibility. The specific case of Brånåsen in Skedsmo would not have been prevented by a national survey. Skedsmo Municipality was aware that it was a landfill with gas formation when they granted permission to build Brånåsen landfill. In the clear light of the after-clock, there is no one who today disagrees that it was an unwise decision. Instead of a resource-intensive national survey, further efforts should be made to raise awareness of the risks and application of the precautionary principle in residential plot selection. The Planning and Building Act provides good rules to ensure that health and pollution concerns are taken. The municipalities themselves know where they have landfills. The municipalities sometimes make unfortunate arrangements, and they still make mistakes from time to time. This does not necessarily mean that the State should assume responsibility for settling matters. The State shall provide guidance; the municipalities shall exercise and have an overview of their own municipality. I therefore recommend the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e579	Today, the Stortinge will vote in favour of the proposal of the Centre to identify old waste landfills and make an up-to-date assessment of health risks. That is what we in the Greens find very regrettable. It's high time we were able to track the country's waste dumps. We need to know more about how dangerous it is to live on or near them. Construction on and at old landfills can lead to displacements in the ground, resulting in damage to houses, dangerous gas leaks and bad odours. We cannot, with our eyes wide open, continue to expose our citizens to the burden of living in landfills without knowing how serious the health risk is. The Green Party believes that it is obvious that the state should also provide the municipalities with knowledge and advice, including for the inhabitants living in abandoned waste sites. Innocent citizens should avoid losing money and quality of life because expansionist politicians sometimes lose their way. There are 2000 waste disposal sites in Norway. One of them is Brånåsdalen in Skedsmo municipality. The site is located in the landfill, among others. more than 1000 tonnes of chemical residues, large amounts of sewage sludge and an unknown number of buried car wrecks. In 1988 the health manager in Skedsmo warned the municipality against laying a residential area as close to Brånåsen landfill, but was not heard. The residential area of Brånåsen was expanded. In 2010, the first problems began reporting. Heckles, fruit trees and lawns became brown, and the dead. Land displacements led to cracks and damage to the houses. Gas leaks caused it to take a light on a bathroom. Some of the residents have been evacuated for several periods. Attempts to stop gas leaks have failed. So far, there is measured gas indoors in 35 dwellings in Brånåsdalen. About the same number of dwellings have sentence damage. It says toxic water out of the ground. While we're sitting here in the hall, families, innocent inhabitants, sit on Brånåsen in a very, very difficult situation. The inhabitants of the most severely affected housing laws have already reported health problems, and we can only imagine what it is like for those people living with this uncertainty and anxiety over decades. The State must provide for its citizens. Now that we are first in the situation, everyone in this Chamber should have voted in favour of the proposal of the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e594	The background for this case is related to Brånåsen-deponium on Skedsmo. It is a special and difficult matter for those affected by it. The furnace is a former landfill where organic waste was deposited. It is not allowed today. Around the landfill, there is a residential area and some industry. There has been a lack of control of the landfill, and there has been a negative impact on the inhabitants of the area. Skedsmo municipality was familiar with the property when they granted permission for construction in the area. The municipality and County of Oslo and Akershus follow up the case. Fortunately, we do not have many such issues in Norway. I am concerned that it is known if there is a health and environmental risk at old waste landfills and that waste landfills are well managed. The risks to health and the environment in the development of housing must be borne by each municipality. The Planning and Building Act has a good system for this. The municipality's spatial planning determines where residential areas are to be established. An impact assessment and a risk and vulnerability analysis shall be carried out to ensure that health and pollution considerations are assessed. The County may raise objections if a draft plan does not adequately address these concerns. In the case of construction works, the municipality may prohibit construction or impose construction requirements. Information on old waste landfills and other pollution is available in the ground database ‘Grunn pollution’. There it is registered approx. 2,100 landfills. These are mainly recorded after a survey in the 1980s and 1990s, but the database is updated on an ongoing basis. Waste landfills contain different types of waste. The risk associated with the construction of waste landfills is related to the formation of gases and damage to sentences. This occurs in landfills containing large amounts of organic waste, such as household waste. Municipalities generally have good knowledge of landfills where there has been household waste. The Public Health Institute has made an up-to-date assessment of the health risks of residential building on old waste landfills. The Institute considers changing the national health councils related to this but will follow the Brånåsen case a little longer before concluding whether the advice should be amended. The Planning and Building Act provides sufficient rules to ensure that health and pollution concerns are addressed in the planning and development of residential areas. I do not think there is a need for a new national survey of old waste landfills in Norway. I therefore agree with the Committee's recommendation on the matter. At the same time, I believe that good guidance for municipalities related to the construction of old waste landfills is important. I have therefore asked the Environment Directorate to look at how they can improve and simplify their guidance to municipalities in the landfill area during 2019.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e613	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e619	As the debate shows, no one disagrees with the fact that this is a very unfortunate matter. It is easy to be after-clock and say that there should have been other assessments. I noticed that the Council of State agreed in its statement that there was a basis for reviewing the guidance and competence support given to the municipalities, because he mentioned that there was reason to go through the responsibility for guidance. I have two questions. Is it also in the belief that it is not enough today, and is the concrete thing that you already see that you should be better – or should be better – to support the municipalities in the future? The second question concerns both the SV and, to the extent that the Centre's posts were addressed, the assessment of the requirements for specific competence in the municipalities. Does the Council agree that it is a wise way to go?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e626	I think the municipalities have good knowledge of the landfills they have, especially where there have been household waste. I also believe that what this matter underlines is the municipal responsibility, that it has consequences if it is done wrong, and it must be taken seriously. I think our task -- and that's why we're doing this -- is to go over whether we're going to guide better. You're regularly going through the landfills that we have. I have written in my letter to the Committee that the landfills were controlled in both 2005, 2009, 2010 and 2014, the control in 2014 was country-wide and also concerned landfills, and the Environment Directorate has planned a new supervisory action in 2019. So there's a work done in this field. The Public Health Institute also makes its new assessments, but it is important to say that we have no indications from the Environment Directorate that there are other places where you have the same situation as in the Brånåsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e633	I think it's pretty serious questions you're talking about here. The Brånåsen case is very extensive and has major consequences for those affected. Regrettably, though, it is not unique that you have had accidents with landfills. As stated in the representative proposal, workers have perished, kids have been burned, and on Brånåsen it took the fire in a building as a result of landfill gas. What we are asking for in this proposal is, first of all, better monitoring for the benefit of the municipalities, so that the municipalities can better afford to base themselves. One is monitoring, the other is clearer technical recommendations. Is it really such that the Council of State believes that the municipality of Skedsmo is in the situation that if they had had good enough knowledge in advance, they would only have been running on anyway – a municipality where the left has been sitting with the vice-president for the last nine years? Would not a municipality have given greater attention to the concern of its inhabitants if you had better professional advice?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e640	Just in Skedsmo it was known, there were recordings that were then ignored in the regulation plan. But it's true that there have been accidents. I think the last one was at the waste disposal in Rome in 1993, where there was fire damage to children playing there. But we also have to take into account that a lot has happened since 1993 in terms of the requirements for landfills. From 2002, there has been much more stringent, including in the case of household waste, which is no longer lawful to deposit. So we follow up. It's a development, and it's followed up, as I said. The Environment Directorate has planned a new supervisory action in 2019. We're going to review our guidance, just to see if it can be better to follow up the municipalities. The Institute for Public Health also makes its assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e645	SV believes that we should have had such a mapping. I record that the Council of State says that supervision should be carried out, and that it will then be considered whether to provide better guidance. I also hear that the Council of State says it has competence on where any of this is located, but the question is whether you have the competence to assess the danger in it. It's true that it's now allowed to throw fewer things, or you're not going to make these landfills anymore, but the problem here is that some of them are old, and that over time they can evolve to be more dangerous than what you have locally competent to assess. I'm afraid I don't feel sure it can't happen again, and that people can experience the same terrible situation that they're now experiencing at the Firehouse in Skedsmo.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e650	It's not right, as the representative says, that I say we should first have oversight and then we should have guidance. The guide – the task of the Environment Directorate – has already been sent and is in the process of assessing whether they should make changes to it. They will be added to a review in 2019. I also point out that the last time they had it – when in both existing and old landfills – was in 2014, so this was implemented. One also has a follow-up like the one in Skedsmo, the County follows up the situation that is there. I also believe that we have an up-to-date knowledge base in the database on 'Grunn pollution', so action is being taken in this area all the time. We're going to think about what better you can do. The Public Health Institute also assesses its advice, but would like to know more about developments at Brånåsen before concluding on what to do. I think we have a system that we follow up and that works.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e655	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e662	This is a very important matter we are dealing with. It's about the security of people's everyday lives, in their own private homes, play areas for their children, their neighbourhood. If you have not taken good care of it in advance, there are those who have to bear quite heavy costs, both personal costs and financial costs, and who have health problems afterwards. What you've seen at the Brånåsen is a terrible situation for those who are affected. There are people who have had to move away from the area. It's people who've had a long fight. Some of them have reached and been redeemed — others have not. There are many who have lived in uncertainty for themselves and their closest ones. What we're talking about here is not to override the municipalities, but it's to give the municipalities a better basis for the job they're going to do. It has great consequences for a municipality if you have made the wrong choice. It can also have major consequences for builders if you have made the wrong choice, but not least it will obviously have a significant impact on those who have bought a dwelling and established themselves in an area, if the wrong choice has been made. That's why we're asking for a mapping. Of the 2 000 landfills in Norway, there are very many in densely populated areas, in areas where housing is already residential or planned. Of the 20000, more than 1600 are at risk of yellow or red contamination. Clear, professional advice and the provision of the best available knowledge are important. There is a difference between whether a municipal doctor has issued warnings in advance within a municipality and whether there is a clear national health council on what should be done, whether it is reasonable to build or not. That's what we're talking about in this case. I believe that local politicians around the country will see it as a good help if a clearer monitoring of waste disposal is carried out, that they are given clearer advice in the job they are going to do, so that they can best care for the interests of their citizens. That is why I ask the majority to vote in favour of the proposal of the Central Party in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e671	In the past, environmental sins create great problems for us today. It is not only on land that causes pollution problems, health risks and insecurity, but also in the sea, where large quantities of chemicals, industrial waste have been released over time. Waste disposal, as we are talking about here, can in some cases cause health damage if the area has been – or is – built. At the former Brånåsen waste landfill in the municipality of Skedsmo, very high point measurements of methane gas have been reported in some dwellings, and in one housing at the landfill, high concentrations of benzene were also estimated in the indoor air. In the light of this very serious matter, the Public Health Institute is now considering the need to amend the general advice on waste landfills. There are also several population studies that have shown links between adverse health effects — such as low birth weight, congenital malformations and certain types of cancer — and residence near waste disposal. There are also several studies describing the increased incidence of self-reported health disorders such as fatigue, sleepiness and headache among residents in these areas. As others have pointed out in this debate, the problem we are facing today is that we do not have a good overview of past waste landfills and what has been thrown there. One thing is the legal landfills that have existed; another and perhaps even bigger problem is the illegal landfills that have been found, so-called wild fillings. Therefore, the proposal from the SV and the Zenterpartie in this case is so important. We need a survey of old waste landfills and an up-to-date assessment of the health risk by building on or on these landfills, so that municipalities can take sensible development decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e684	I note that the Council of State has stated that he has asked the Environment Directorate to look at how they can improve and simplify their guidance to the municipalities in the landfill area during 2019. It is difficult to interpret it differently from the fact that, at least, the Council of State realizes that the State agencies also have a responsibility, such as: is laid down in the Public Health Act. I then register with interest that the Christian People's Party representative Bransdal thought this was a purely municipal responsibility, and then I wonder when to agree to promote changes in the Public Health Act. Because if it's a purely municipal responsibility to follow up on this, and if you're not going to participate in public health work through the state agencies, then we also have to assume that there will be a change in the public health law soon. And I don't think so. So what we see today is the result of not wanting to vote in favour of a proposal that tries to take people's health risks by living in a serious landfill. It is good that the Directorate-General for the Environment has been asked to reinforce the guidance, but that is not enough to prevent more serious incidents, because it is a matter of having the tools out there in the municipalities, and such an overview as the proposal calls for the government to investigate, could strengthen that toolbox in this work. The proposal says that the government should be asked to carry out a survey of old waste landfills in Norway, with an up-to-date assessment of health risks, and to assess the need for new national recommendations and measures. I don't understand how to disagree with that. Otherwise you can ask for an up-to-date overview and for a review to be carried out of new health risk assessments. It is most special that you choose to vote against it from the Labour Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party. That would have given us the tools that might be needed to avoid coming in such cases that we've now seen at Skedsmo. The matter itself has given an increased focus to the challenge that old landfills can present, and I am interested to note that several municipalities are now taking steps to ban the construction of garbage dumps. But they do it for preventive purposes, not because they know it's deadly, but because they want to be leading were. And it should be done by several municipalities when the government is not interested in contributing to an up-to-date numbering and assessing the health risks that may exist. We would have been able to do that if we had chosen to support the proposal put forward by the Central Party today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e695	I take the floor because this also concerns the work of the Committee on Energy and the Environment. The health consequences we know more and more about, and we need more knowledge about it. It is also important to point out that many municipalities have used the precautionary principle and are not allowed to expand their landfills. The municipalities have an overview of the areas covered, in their planning and building plans and municipal plans. They also have it in relation to security and emergency plans, which they are required to have. One of four municipalities doesn't have it. They like it in their environmental and climate plans. So this is also about that they have a capacity, and that one uses it locally when a decision is taken. There is also a need for more cooperation, both in municipalities, between municipalities and with state authorities, because a lot of methane gas is sweating out from many of these landfills, and capturing that landfill is not in the system. It is also an action that we should discuss: how do we use the Climate Strategy, and how do we get municipalities to drive innovation, so that we get the technology that the rest of the world, even more so than we do, will need in the future? We haven't had tradition in Norway to let go and let the municipalities run with innovation in the technical sector. There are very many private actors who enter into contracts to do tasks on behalf of municipalities. So we have more problems to deal with when it comes to this. But one of the discussions related to this is also about responsibility, and that the municipality's autonomy is also part of this. What are we going to do to give them guides? It is constantly being updated. But there are several issues here that we have to include in the discussions about how we are going to push this work further.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e707	There is no doubt that the situation at Brånåsen is serious, it is serious for those affected, and we must learn from it. But the situation at Brånåsen was known, so a survey would not have changed it. But if the advice could be different, that's exactly what we want to look at. Therefore, it is important that the Institute of Public Health assesses whether health advice should be modified. They do so precisely on the basis of the situation at Brånåsen. The Brånåsen case also underlines the seriousness of being a local government representative. It is a great responsibility to make the right decisions in these situations and in development cases. That is why we should also learn from this case to see if there is something we should do differently with the guidance, in order to give better advice to the municipalities. That is why we have asked the Environment Directorate to look at the guidance and whether it can be changed in the landfill cases. When it's mapping, we have a database, basic pollution, and it's regularly updated. We also oversee the landfills we have. I mentioned some years in this connection. Landfills, including landfills, were checked in 2014. There will also be a new supervision this year. I wonder something about the dissatisfaction with what is done. It's like we're going to have a good overview of the landfills, including the landfills. We have, and it needs to be updated and improved. We're going to learn from Brånåsen, whether we need other health services, and whether we need better guidance to the municipalities. So what the government's following up on is, of course, what the representative, Mr. Kjeseth, also pointed out, is that we need to have better cooperation between the different levels to avoid situations like the one on the Brånåsen. I believe that we have processes that are well underway to address this, and we have a system to which the municipalities can relate. They're familiar with the landfills that we have. Here it is important to have better cooperation to avoid mistakes that have obviously been made at Brånåsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e720	The Council of State wonders why the proposers are in a situation in which we doubt what is the government's intention and the work of the government. These include: because the majority will vote on the concrete proposals that we have and that one would believe, from some of the wording that has come into the Chamber today, that one could agree on. First of all, the concrete proposal is that one should provide for a national survey. That mapping is not good enough today. In our neighbouring countries, national monitoring is much better than in Norway. It's the media that have helped us to get good figures on how many live in and near waste disposal. One thing is the landfills themselves, but this is also about health risks and getting an up-to-date assessment of the health risks associated with waste landfills. It is nice that there has been a ban on new deposits, but some of the gases we are talking about here can be active for up to 100 years. Therefore, the old landfills are also incredibly important. Nor is it the case that the municipalities always have a good enough overview of the landfills, and a national survey would be of good help in the work that the municipalities are going to do. Such a survey, and that it was clearly communicated out, would also be good information for those who consider building or buying a dwelling. What one knows from the Brånåsen case is that there have been some warnings within the municipality, yes, but very many of those who have lived in the area, don't know anything about the dangers it entailed. There have also come people moving there who didn't even know they were in an old, abandoned landfill, and who have subsequently had great consequences because of the choice they took to move there, to an area that they thought had a safe and good neighbourhood, but where both landfills have come into the house and liquid toxins up from the ground. Therefore, there is a need both for better national monitoring and for clear advice to the municipalities so that they can carry out their mission to the citizens in a better way than they have so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e731	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Energy and the Environment. 4-6 is treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e771	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e780	Debates on predators are often demanding. They shall balance two different and partly conflicting considerations. There are often very high-temperature debates, for those who have the clearest points of view, who take the most part: those who are opposed to having predators in Norwegian nature, and those who are against any exclusion. But most of us are somewhere in the middle. So does the Workers' Party. We believe that we should have a two-part objective, where we should both have a sustainable predatory population, follow the law of biodiversity and respect our international obligations and take into account the active and versatile use of land and the possibility of having strong and viable communities throughout the country. The debate on predators has therefore served with broad consensus and a low level of conflict. It ensures predictability of both interests. That is why we are pleased that the Stortinget has in the past gathered in broad comparisons where all parties have compromised and provided a policy that leads to population disintegration. We have both obtained unanimous settlements, including: in 2012 and a wolf settlement between several batches, including: The working party. It is up to the government to follow up policy and ensure that the decision of the Storting is implemented. The government of the day has failed to maintain a low level of conflict. In the decisions on the wolf that was made before Christmas, both the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party, which were two of the partners of the agreement, believed that the government broke the agreement that we were on. Not only did we mean it; many of the representatives of the government parties meant the same thing. It took only one hour before the Minister for the Environment, the Minister for Agriculture and, in fact, the Minister for Health, made his statement on what was the government's decision, before the Progress Party felt it was necessary to have a legislative change. We have seen in these questions a government that has supported neither in its own parties nor in the Stortinget, and we see that the level of conflict has increased dramatically under Erna Solberg's leadership. The Labour Party and the Center Party sent a letter to the Prime Minister before Christmas, to which we have not yet received an answer – amazingly enough. We assume that it will be answered soon, and that the decision of Storting in this case will be followed up. Today we are dealing with three representatives from the Central Party, and I will briefly explain the positions of the Labour Party. It's a proposal for different kinds of hunting for you. We're all interested in having an effective way of hunting the animals that are to be taken out. We believe that some of those proposals are too detailed to allow us to agree to them here and now. Some of them may also be contrary to what is Norwegian hunting culture. We are therefore not prepared to support any of the proposals today, but we agree with what the rest of the Committee has agreed on, namely to look at new fishing methods for you. With regard to the proposal for hunting bears, we also believe that some of the proposals are too detailed to allow us to support them. What we support, on the other hand, is that the Storting should state that the management area of the bear should not be increased. During the grazing season in 2018, there was documented loss of over 200 sheep. We think it is unfortunate to increase the area of bears in these areas. The people who live here need predictability that they know what they have to do with it, and the Workers' Party believes that we should say clearly today that it is not appropriate to increase the breeding area of bears. The last proposal is about good compensation schemes for the loss of grazing animals to predators. Good compensation schemes are absolutely essential in order to have predatory policies that are uprooted in the people. Those who live in the vicinity of predators and take the greatest burden on the whole of the great community shall experience that the great community stands up for them. There are today many different compensation schemes, and many of them come from a different time. We therefore believe that it is reasonable and wise to have a review of all of them, and that the government should come to the Stortinget with it. However, we believe that today we should make it clear that the State must provide full compensation and that the system of curtailment of compensation must cease when the predatory game appears to be the only real cause of damage. It may not be such that full compensation is not ensured for the grazing users concerned when it is known that predators have been infected. With that, I take up the proposals that the Workers' Party is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e799	The representative of Åsmund Aukrust has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e804	First of all, I would like to take the opportunity to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in this matter. Despite political divisions, I feel that the members of the Committee have been tidy in the process, and I, as the rapporteur, would like to take the opportunity to pay tribute to it. I and the members of the committee also know that predators are engaged. In particular, it appeared during the big demonstration just outside Stortinget earlier in January. Robbery policy can create strife and can be divisive, and it can be steep fronts for and against. Sometimes it can also be impossible to make all of them layers. But there are far more shades than those that appear. We need to see the forest for more than just trees, to put it that way, and the debate requires a balance between the safety of individuals, business interests and natural interests. Therefore, Norway has set a two-fold objective in the field of predatory policies: to ensure sustainable predatory policies while at the same time finding the best possible solution for grazing, landowners and local communities living closely with predators. This is solved by taking into account different interests and by different species of predatory game and different areas of attention. That's why we have predatory game priority areas and grazing priority areas. In the case for which I am the rapporteur, Case No. 5, is the intention of the proposers to manage the bear management in line with the predatory game settlement. I think I'm talking on behalf of all the parties that were on the robberies deal, when I say no one disagrees with that intention. The centre party has promoted three concrete proposals. The first thing we have with the Workers' Party is that today's breeding area for bears is not expanding. In this respect, the Ministry of Climate and Environment has asked pollinators to take a closer look at the management of the bear. The majority of the Committee meets the presentation by the Council of State on the road further. Proposal No. 2, from the centre, all available means are used to extract pests, including the use of loose, on a driven necked dog. A research project has been carried out to investigate the impact of the use of loose, on driven neck dogs, under the direction of the Norwegian Institute of Natural Research. The results of the research project are clear, and the Council of State has informed Stortinget that he will review the results and the technical advice before deciding on any change. The Committee awaits the final conclusion of the Council of State on the road further. The third proposal by the Central Party is: ‘A new bear stocking system is established that is more comprehensive and effective than the current system.’ Norway already has one of the world’s best surveillance programmes for wild game. Annual DNA collection has been nationwide since 2009 and has been significantly strengthened by, among others, Robbery data. The majority of the Committee considers this to be a serious argument that we have a good system of stock registration. These three concrete proposals are not supported enough, and the majority of the Committee has agreed to reject the proposals. Robbery management has been adopted with broad agreement here in Stortinget, and the framework is secured by a large majority. Finally, as a matter of course, I would like to assume that the department is following the will of the Stortinge in the adopted looting agreement, which is also the intention of the proposers.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e830	It is true that I have received a case spokesman for case No. 6, which we treat today. Let me start by thanking the Committee for a good and constructive cooperation in dealing with this matter. This time I think it's a little bit more than usual, because we've had to do a lot of laps because there's a lot of new information coming from the committee, but we've managed to keep a broad majority in the committee, which is behind the current situation. It's actually pretty broad about the big lines of predatory politics in Norway. The Committee is converging to continue to pursue the two-part objective of predatory policy. It means, as you know, that we should both secure the large predatory game in Norwegian nature and take care of agriculture, domestic interests and the use of land. Jerven is a natural part of Norwegian fauna and must be managed as part of the diversity of species in line with Norwegian law and international conventions. We share the concern of the proposers that there is a population that is high above the target population. It will create additional problems for grazing and domestic farming and lead to more yervar establishing themselves in pasture-priority areas. Predators who make a challenge or even a problem do what is natural for them to do. They supply the food that does not run in the first place. Then, fortunately, there is a broad agreement that a licence agreement should be part of the management process when the stock target is reached. Effective license hunts are important, along with the other means we have to secure withdrawals. The last one needs to be underlined. Test arrangements and testing of, inter alia: technical means to ensure that off-takes reach the set killing quotas. A three-year pilot scheme for the use of permanently installed artificial light has been implemented, as has the electronic monitoring of fishing booths. While the Committee continued on this subject, the Directorate for the Environment gave its professional advice. They suggest that these changes to the regulation be made permanently. For this reason, the majority of the committee, with the exception of the Centre Party, has gathered on a proposal asking the government to send a general call for a proposal to make the fishing arrangements with fixed artificial light by attacking and camera surveillance and electronic monitoring of fishing booths permanently by amending the hunting, killing and catching regulations. Permanent changes are being made to the regulations on motor travel in outland, which open up the possibility for municipalities to grant permission to use snowmobiles in the transport of baits, kegs and fishing booths for you, as well as to supervise them. The majority believe this is good measures to make hunting more effective. We do not want such a strong liberalisation of motor vehicle traffic legislation – a general liberalisation. However, the point is that a desire is that the transport of hunters to approved sites is measures that should be tried out in selected grazing priority areas. In general, opening up to the use of artificial light in tracking on yours is the majority of the consensus that there are heavy arguments that speak against – particular security, as one then does not have a full view of the background when solving a shot. The majority have an expectation of increasing awareness of the calf area for domestic animals when it comes to monitoring, but believe that the monitoring methodology is to be decided by Rovdata and the trade union council. It is useful to have a management/monitoring separation. We have a very good system for this in Norway. Animal welfare is one of the pillars of Norwegian game management, and peace of youth is crucial. Animal cubs shall not, in short or in good faith, be at risk of starvation because the mother is shot. It's for y'all, as well as for other game. When the risk is imminent, the Committee’s pluraldifor refuses to move the start of the game until 20 August. The use of loose, on a drifting necked dog, must be assessed by the individual game species and by this tolerable long-lasting hunting. There is little experience in the use of such dog breeds on the hunt for yerv and other predators in Norway. As explained in a previous article, a number of test projects are now being carried out. on the bear – and on the wolf, I believe. During the examination of the proposal, the Committee asked for additional information on the matter and the majority stressed the uncertainty about the negative effects on other game and grazing animals. This means that the majority will not have a general opening, which the proposers call for. I again stress that in predator policy it is important to have two thoughts in your head at once. A two-part goal requires that. I'm glad the majority in the committee did that. That means we're playing with research and management and we're clear that we want more effective license hunt for you.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e861	First, I would like to thank the three rapporteurs for the good work that has been done on these matters. It is quite right, as they have said, that we have had good cooperation in the committee on this matter. The management of predators is a field of clear contrasts of interest. It's a field of difficult balances and choices. There is reason to share the concerns of the proposers, but we also have to provide for the management of predators who are able to balance different concerns and who are in line with the predatory agreement. With regard to the management of bears and the proposals that the Centre Party is promoting, we already have good opportunities for picking up bears today. It's worth noting that in recent years we've strengthened surveillance programs for predatory game through Rovdata, and now has one of the most advanced surveillance systems in the world. The proposals of the Centre Party will not contribute to the achievement of a target number of bears according to the stocking targets for wild game laid down by the Storting and many of the hunting methods proposed are permitted in cooperation with the SNO. As far as you're concerned, the Center Party has previously made proposals similar to those they're promoting now. I would like to stress that the predatory settlement must be treated in a balanced manner. If situations arise where you are in the process of establishing yourself in pasture priority areas, exceptional measures should be put in place. We have also supported the consultation of a proposal to make the test systems with fixed artificial light by providing for a permanent and electronic monitoring of the fishing booth. As regards the compensation rules for the loss of grazing animals to predators, I have a strong understanding that this is demanding for the affected. The centre party has also, in the past, made proposals that are close to the proposals we are considering today. At the time, all lots, with the exception of the Centre Party, agreed that good financial arrangements already exist for owners of grazing animals affected by predatory game. In retrospect, these arrangements have been further reinforced. But, as I said, we understand that this is demanding for the affected. We also know that it might be time to evaluate how these schemes work. We, together with all the other parties – with the exception of the Centre Party – have asked the Government to ‘make an appropriate assessment of the compensation arrangements for the loss of grazing animals for game of prey and the compensation scheme and report to the Stortinge in an appropriate manner’. [[...]] If there's one thing I really want to highlight when it comes to bears, you and grazing animals, it's the value of having a predatory game deal. It is not a settlement that was made to repeatedly make proposals similar to previous proposals that have been voted down, but to try to take care of grazing, local environments and predatory animals. It's not an easy balance, but that doesn't mean we shouldn't try to find solutions where you look at the whole thing, where you take care of the different interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e878	In recent years, with this government, we have been facing a challenge with today's predatory situation and the policy pursued by this Right Party government. I had never thought that in this room I would experience SV and the Progress Party stand together in all the comments in three cases dealing with predators. Then it is worth remembering that just a few weeks ago more than 10,000 people went on demonstration trains against government predatory policies – including many elected trustees from both the Advance Party and the Right. I would also like to refer to the report by the rapporteur, who has been present, where more than 200 rapporteurs have signed on an insurrection against the government's predatory policy. Today we are dealing with three representatives from the Central Party, and I will stick to the proposals that go on the management of bear and yerv. For many years the number of yews has been above the stocking target, and it has caused great problems for grazing, and especially for the domestic industry, in many places in the country. In recent years, there has been a testing scheme with measures, which has actually led us to become closer to the stock target. In addition, it has also helped to improve animal welfare through increased safety, humane killing of you, and improved surveillance of fishing booths. The probationary period is over and the government has rejected some applications from individual municipalities that will continue the project. Now the government suddenly says to continue the trial period. The centre lot sees no reason to make the licence hunt more difficult with tools that have been tested and found out out of date and ineffective. The aim must be to ensure that the hunt is effective and professional – as demonstrated by the test project. The active substances made available through the project – artificial lighting in case of pre-sales and electronic monitoring of your booths – should therefore be made permanent. That it should be so difficult, so bureaucratic and so little practical is hard to understand. On the other hand, there is a significant red tape as it characterises the robbery management of this government. In Trøndelag, the bear attacks are this season among the worst in many years. Over 200 sheep have been documented killed by bears. It is a blight attack in pasture-priority areas that has significantly increased. What, then, was the answer from the environmental bureaucrat? It was expanding the management area of the bear. This is in direct contradiction with the 2011 predatory game agreement, where the stock target for breeding bears was mentioned. The centre party considers it very important that the breeding area of the bear is not extended. This summer I visited the municipality of Bardu after the farmers in the area were hit by a large attack by the bear. It makes the impression of meeting people who each day have to fight for their livelihood, and who have to find their animals badly injured and killed in such a way. In one day, in just a few hours, over 20 sheep were taken by the bear in Bardu. It's amazing to me that you don't intervene from a political point of view, but you let the department and the director train the case. It took five weeks for action to be taken, among other things. Dog. Then the bear had killed over 60 sheep. There had to be five more weeks, with enormous extra work for many when it came to supervision – in addition to the fact that this was in the middle of the harvest period. Once again, we are witnessing an extremely bureaucratic and heavy-rooted management of predators, where predators are constantly favored over domestic animals and Norwegian food production. We have also seen in recent years when it comes to the management of wolves in Norway, that today the population of wolves is far above what it should be – and the government makes the wolf zone almost a wolf reserve. The fact that the government does not follow the predatory settlement, does not follow the two-part objective, largely not follow up the decision of the Great Britain, is actually more than predators. It's basically about people's trust in the authorities. When the state changes the rules of the game along the way, when the state exercises power without democratically anchored reasons, the confidence of those who govern the country is weakened. That is also the basis for the Central Party to promote these proposals, because we see that it is absolutely necessary to instruct the government in their predatory policy. I'll bring it up to the Central Party's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e895	The representative Sandra Borch has drawn up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e900	To the predator management: it is not that easy for SV either. We're also agricultural friends, as the Center Party is, but we're on each edge, you might say, in predator management. We have more reasons to take, and we can't just be a business organisation either. I do not think that is a good idea for agriculture either. It might be to do a bear service – to use that expression – if we don't see a bigger picture. I see it almost like this that the Center Party does not fully take on what we can almost call tripartite cooperation in Norwegian predatory policy, that it must therefore be based on one arrow, which is predatory. Well, we weren't into it, but I see that the majority in the hall has been. Then the Nature Diversity Act is the second and Berne Convention, the international responsibility, the third. It's the three arrows on which we have to build this. That's what has made changing state councils, of course, take the position they've taken. This is quite undeniable, as I see it. With regard to the different issues here, I regret that I have a bit of a bolt for bolting production, because the server failed, the printer failed, etc., so we'll see what we get out of this. For this with compensation: We cannot buy out – in some way – and have an unlimited replacement afterwards either, when we have a loss of bump. We have to be in the forefront, we have to think about prevention, we have to think about area distribution. It is then quite essential to point out that the funds that are now largely used for substitution must be used in advance, for prevention. Not least, we want to point out these risk-based compensation schemes, this is that one gets paid for an insider, one gets paid for a jersey, etc., and then one can locally dispose of these funds. How this should be disposed of, how the distribution key should be, etc., in terms of measures, we may be involved in and discuss, but that principle is the only sensible thing that is preventative, that would give local maritime government to manage this, and that would give incentives to take care of the animals, both the domestic and the would. This is an important point, and I think we're going to get such a decision from the hall here. We'll see when it comes in a pure form, and as a proposition from the government sometime. In the case of bear management – there is a case no. 5 – we have a target of 13 young people in this country. I've been in many of these areas in my «old» life, I've seen several of the bears in these areas, and I have to say that we haven't achieved near 13 young people this year yet. That's the outline of this requirement. The interior requires quite large areas. They walk very little. The westernmost binna we have – HE80, as she is now called – is located in the Elverum districts. It probably now has both children and grandchildren, but it's the westernmost we have. So it's in the boundary area that they're in. That means that when they walk as little as they do, it is possible to manage the bear guts. The raspberries we take pretty much when they go west, anyway. So the decisions have been here in the hall, and that's what the deal has involved. We can take the male bears that go west. I can regret that sometimes, because I have a Koie in Vassfaret and never see a bear again – that's the way it is. In terms of the expression ‘using all available means’ to extract pests, it sounds terrible — and so does it. When a user uses these expressions, it makes us travel a little bit, because we think a little bit about animal welfare and the public relations out there, internationally, etc. It's not nice to write black on white on a paper. We've got to think about things like that. We're not strangers to using effective means to take you when it's over the stock, but there's something more to be determined, we need to know what this means. This means that the majority recommendation is, to a large extent, correct. It is also the case that the SNO can today use the instruments it has pointed to, for example. both helicopters and stray dogs. So the methods are there, but it's asking who's going to implement it. In terms of population registration, I know the research environment and the management environment very well both in Norway and in other countries. There have been so many doubts about – and there are proposals that cast doubt on – the Norwegian research environment and the Scandinavian research environment of predators. It's embarrassing. I'm talking to Americans, who are totally at the top of the world – they're bragging about Norwegian research in this area. I'll come back to some more points in the next article.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e922	The government is running a pillaging game administration in line with the Berne Convention, the Nature Diversity Act, the Robbery Agreement and the majority decision on wolves. For bear and gaupe we are below the targets, while for wolf and yer we are above. For the king's eagle, we're on target. Small populations are almost impossible to manage exactly on targets, and it is good that we are as close as we do. We also have a historically small loss of sheep to predatory game, with a halve since 2007. We have good financial arrangements in the game management. Owners of animals are entitled to full compensation for losses and accompanying costs when grazing animals are taken by predatory game. In addition, we have a grant scheme whereby grazing users are largely covered by the costs of prevention measures, and for 2019 the government has increased the appropriations by another 10 million. kr. It is underlined that the 2017 guidelines on the disbursement of funds for preventive and conflict mitigation measures were an exceptional case. The general rule shall be that measures must be clarified in advance with the State. The feedback from grazing users in the north-east valley to Fylkesmannen in 2018 is that they are largely satisfied with the follow-up. As I have stated on several occasions in the past, for the North-East we will follow the current system. I note that the Committee in the position asks the government to make an assessment of the compensation arrangements and the FKT regime, and I am in favour of that. We follow up Storting's policy also for bears, and it is important that the points in the predatory game comparisons are not interpreted in isolation. That's the whole thing we have to rule by. The bear population is currently well below the stock target, and construction requires particular protection of the interior. It is therefore an important issue whether areas prioritised for bears are large enough or suitable to achieve the stock target. I am therefore pleased that in region 6 there is now an agreement to acquire more knowledge of the bear's land use before any changes are made to the management plans. For the sake of bear populations, the ethics of different breeding methods and the credibility of populations, I am pleased that the Committee does not intend to adopt the proposal of the Centre Party on the basis of bears. The proposals on yerv have great similarities with the proposals of the Centre have promoted earlier and are down in the Stortinget. We are aware of the challenges of stock regulation of yours by licensing, and the government has launched attempts at new instruments. The aim is to streamline the licensing process while reducing the need for withdrawals. Before deciding on the use of new instruments, professional assessments are necessary. For the two measures we have tried over three years – the use of artificial light on ate and electronic monitoring of fishing booths – we received a technical recommendation from the Environment Directorate just before Christmas. Another point is the proposal for measures that we know have adverse effects. An example is the extension of the licensing period, which may result in your puppies that depend on your mother being left to themselves if the mother is shot. This is unethical and not a direction we want to go in. That we make decisions based on the best possible knowledge, I believe is absolutely crucial in the game management. I am therefore pleased that the Committee's position is limited to asking the government to send the proposals on the use of artificial light in the event of the attack and electronic surveillance of the fishing booth at the hearing. It is consistent with my own assessment, and the proposals will be sent to the hearing during the spring. So this I'll follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e939	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e944	I have a question about the follow-up of the robber agreement, and in particular what was about the wolf. On 17 September, the Labour Party and the Central Party sent to our parliamentary leaders Jonas Gahr Støre and Marit Arnstad a letter to the Prime Minister asking the Government to explain in the Stortningen why the decision of the robberiesman was set aside when the Stortinget has said that it should have the decisive word when it is above the target, and whether it was right that the government's representatives here on the Stortinget say that there is a need to make a legislative change in order to follow up the decision of the Stortinget. Now it's been over six weeks, and we still haven't even received a response from the Prime Minister or the government. What is the background for the government not responding to the two largest opposition parties of the Storting, and when will the government respond?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e951	The answer shall be sent today. Either it's come out, or it comes out at this moment, to say it like that. So that gets you, and that's an answer to the concrete questions asked by the two parties. My assessment is that the content of the questions has been explained several times to Stortingen in both questions, Document 8 proposals and other proposals, and I believe that a statement in itself will not add any further information to the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e956	It's good that the government has answered, so then we're going to read that answer and go into it properly. I want to say about a government that promised to cooperate more with the Stortinget, that if it goes over six weeks before you answer a letter, it's a terrible long time. But this goes into a series — where the government is getting more and more conflict around this area. As I said, I believe that all interests are served by keeping the level of conflict low. Under this government we see that the level of conflict has exploded. There have been great demonstrations. Even the prime minister has demonstrated against his own government. My question to Ola Elvestuen is how he actually assesses his own efforts to keep the level of conflict low in the issue of predators in Norwegian nature.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e963	My view of this is that we should run an administration that follows up the decisions that the Stortinget has made, and as I said: in some species we are below the stock target; in others we are above. It is important that we have good compensation arrangements, and it is important that we also have good arrangements for prevention measures. What we've done now is we've strengthened the FKT arrangements by 10 million. kr, and we are also strengthening the SNO budget by 5 million. kr, so that they may be present in several places where losses to predators occur. In particular, we will follow the situation in the north-east valley, where you can expect that it is likely that there will also be stepwolves later. I don't think there's any other way to do this than to follow the decisions that have been made, and follow up the administration as well as it can be done, with the two-part goal we have. The results are good; loss rates are falling significantly.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e972	It is impressive after almost seven weeks of deafening silence that the Progress Party and the Right will allow the Left to use the majority position not to inform the Storting about the further development of the wolf policy – well done. I'll talk a little bit about bears and mid-Norway. There are not so many representatives here from central Norway, very few from the Trondelag in the Right and the Advance Party and in return many from Oslo, Rogaland and other places. But if one expands the bear area in central Norway, it will intervene directly in some of the most active agricultural and grazing areas in the whole of central Norway, and one risks that everything east of E6 in Trondelag – if anyone here knows where it is – will become a bear area. This means that municipalities like Stjørdal, Meråker, Snåsa, Verdal and Levanger will become bear areas. What effect does the Council of State have on agriculture and grazing in central Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e979	First, I want to argue that there is some deafening silence. I think I was here before Christmas talking about predators and wolves. I think I'm answering questions from representatives of the Central Party every week about predators. We had two question-time questions about both Man and Hobøl in Stortinget, and I'm here today. I will come back with further matters when it shows up. As far as the situation in region 6 is concerned, I am pleased with what is now being done, namely that the Directorate-General for the Environment and the subject of wild game agree that more knowledge should be acquired. As was also mentioned earlier, we have a problem with being far below the size of the bear. Then we need to have an assessment of the areas as well, whether they are suitable enough. What has happened so far since the robberies agreement, is that this area became less recently subject to revision of the management plan. But I think it's right to have more knowledge to make the right decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e986	That answer doesn't make me much wiser. Like the rapporteur, I think it should be of interest to hear more closely what the department believes. The management plan in Middle Norway for bear has been implemented according to all the art rules. There has been a broad consultation process, there is no procedural error, and nevertheless the department said last summer that they could imagine forcing predatory wildlife subjects to think anything other than what they are doing, namely expanding the bear area. Now the Council of State shows that the directorate and the robbers agree. Yes, the Directorate and the Office agree that the area should not be extended and that the adopted management plan should apply for the next four-year period. If the Council of State now believes that the agreement between the directorate and the robberies subject is good, I would like the Council of State to confirm that it means that the current management plan will continue to apply in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e991	The management plan is valid, and no one has gone in and overheard. There is a dialogue between the Environment Directorate and Region 6. What they agree on is that you have to acquire more knowledge. I think it's right of me and also of others to await the knowledge acquisition and the results of it. However, there is no change in the management plan while it is in progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e996	That was an interesting information, because the directorate and surveyor agree, is that no changes are made to the management plan adopted by the surveyor. That is what they agree on. It contradicts the message that came from the department last summer, that a wish to review the Mid-Norway management plan in relation to the bear. It is good if the Council of State now believes that no changes should be made. It is a little strange that the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Workers' Party could not vote for a proposal that confirmed it in Stortinget. But it is excellent, and the Council of State can confirm not only one part of the decision between the directorate and the predatory game subject, but both parts — both in terms of knowledge, and that one does not make changes in the current bear population area.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e1002	It has never been the case that the Ministry has drawn up the management plan for region 6 to verify it. It's in region 6, and that's their responsibility, but we've asked you to have a contact, just to discuss the situation with the bear. The consensus is that you need to get more knowledge. While collecting that knowledge, there are no changes to the management plan. No changes are made to the management plan during this period and responsibility lies with region 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e1007	The size of the stock will today take a decision to ask the government to make an assessment of the compensation schemes for the loss of grazing animals to predatory game and an evaluation of the compensation scheme. What I would like to ask the Council of State of Elvesuen is whether, in that evaluation, he will also look at the proposal that, among other things. were discussed in the 2003 notification of predators, which formed the basis for the 2004 conciliation, including in particular: a prior payment to keep livestock alive rather than to pay afterwards for dead animals was discussed. Will the Council of State look at such a mechanism to prevent the conflicts around predators in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e1014	We're now asked to look at the replacement and grant schemes, look at how they work, and I think it's right to do it. So I can't pre-determine what the result of that is. But we have also had an expert committee from 2010 to 2011 that has looked at different alternative devices of the compensation scheme, including such a risk-based replacement. So it'll also be one of the assessments that we'll make.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e1019	Replicate cord shift complete. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e1026	I have been through some predatory debates over the last few years, and I am constantly as surprised by the unwillingness to go into the individual matters and also by the desire to add in particular the central party motives and wishes that we have never faced. I found out that the representative from the Workers' Party said in his post that there were people who were opposed to predators in Norwegian nature. No, I don't know anyone in this room who is opposed to predators in Norwegian nature. The centre party joined the robberies agreement in 2011. We are for the stock targets that are set for bear, yerv, gloupe – and now also for wolf. Let's take that as a starting point and don't attach motives to other people they don't have. The problem is that the stock targets are not met, it is the problem – that a majority of the Storting has set non-compliance targets. It is perhaps most visible to the wolf that you don't, because the wolf population is now so vastly above the stock target set by the Storting. Like some others here, after what they said, I'm very happy with the stock records we have. It's very good. Robbery data is very good. The wolf teller is also very good. It shows that already now, in winter, 73 wolves are registered, and yet there are two months left of the registrations, so it's likely to be even higher to summer than it did last summer. Some of us have also tried to point out that the herds are far above the stock. It shouldn't, so we have to discuss how to take you out more effectively. So the majority will not be in that discussion. It is not a matter of eradicating the yew from Norwegian nature; it is a matter of getting down to the goal set by Stortinget. But your actions have failed year after year. No one takes hold, and the Progress Party sits quietly and dares not say a break – except for TV 2, then, there they talk, but in the staging room – nothing. In the case of bears, it is stated in the robberies agreement that the majority assumes that the realization of the stock levels of bears shall not require land beyond today's breeding areas. Then is a timely problem to address why last summer the department threatened to expand the bear area in central Norway. They are not authorized to do so after the robberies agreement. This is a very real matter debate, which is well-thought out and firmly attached to the robberies agreement, and it's amazing that the committee almost seems to be afraid of taking the debate, trying to attribute people other than they have, and also that you're not willing to go into the individual complexes that are actually brought up by different parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e1039	As the representative Marit Arnstad said, it is always interesting to follow the predatory debate in Stortinget – although they are boringly predictable – even for those of us who are not personally affected, either in business or in any other way. In the past, the size has adopted a two-fold target for predatory policy. So we're going to have grazing animals through an active agriculture to exploit grazing resources in the countryside and have viable populations of the five major predatory species. It in itself suggests that there will be a conflict, because even though we divide the country into artificial zones where one should take precedence over another, the animals do not relate to that kind of theory game. It is only bureaucrats and politicians in this room who do – not the sheep, not the reindeer, not the predators. That is why Stortinget has recognised it and has, through broad agreements, to which it has been referred before today, and through the Nature Diversity Act, ensured compensation for those affected financially. Unfortunately, we see a tendency that this is not followed up. Compensation is curtailed despite loss of predatory animals and grazing users must indicate livestock or compensate for extensive preventive measures. That is the background to one of the proposals we are dealing with today. One might think that it was easy to get a majority for such a proposal, but no, just fixing the obvious and previously adopted seems to be difficult in this room today. Instead, there is an unfortunate alliance between the Green Party on the one hand and the Progress Party on the other, which rejects the proposals – proposals that would clarify and provide justice for those affected by Storting's policy. Instead, we get a decision asking the government to assess whether the compensation arrangements are good enough. It is not necessary to ask for any assessment in this case. This is politics. Politics is about wanting, and then it keeps asking for something as simple as that natural diversity law, as we have previously adopted, is being followed up, and that full compensation is to be provided. Unfortunately, this case ends up like most predatory things seem to be doing when they come to the Storting: The majority get involved in fog – despite previous settlements, previous decisions and the objectives the majority is really behind. This in itself contributes to the increasing level of conflict we see related to predators. It creates frustration, and it is disappointing and, not to say contempt for all those who believe in the political system, who are trying to obtain a nutritional basis from the resources we have said to be used.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e1050	I noticed that the Elvesu State Council pointed out the willingness to acquire more knowledge about bears in region 6. Then it's very strange to know the situation in Northern Ireland in region 7. More knowledge is to be acquired, he says, in region 6, but at the same time no more knowledge is to be acquired in region 7. There we have enough knowledge, it's said, to change the bear zone. That's not true. There is knowledge of purely predatory activities, it is true, but when a management plan for predatory game is put in place, it is also appropriate to acquire knowledge about grazing, the situation of losses, other industrial interests, about housing, about quality of life, about the relationship with the community and about the relationship with hunting interests. This is why it is provocative to hear a state council that stands here today and wants more knowledge about one region and refuses to acquire more knowledge, for example. impact assessment in Nordland. These core areas for bears that are not to be expanded: there is one thing that does not appear in this debate, and that is how far outside a core area the bear population is going to be. For example, one annual youth requires at least seven insiders, and then one should have male bears, which use a very large area. For one annual youth you will have a large area that can well have 20 bears. Although, in many cases, this core area is more than large enough when you think about grazing, there is nothing compared to the real area that such a population of bears will use. Both areas used by the administration to bear in the Nordic region will also affect 10,000 sheep outside the area.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e1057	Norway is a country with rich foreign resources that, in a global perspective, we need to exploit also for food production. Climate change that threatens will reap from nature and use grass-based resources for meat production be a sensible way of producing food, rather than becoming increasingly dependent on imports of soya and cereals from other countries. As an environmental activist, I have had to endure a good deal in the past to have such a vision, because it is right for Norway to maintain its production of both pure and sheep, based on an energy source that we humans cannot yet exploit: grass and low. At the same time, I want more predators in Norway. Of course, there will be conflicts, but conflicts we have to learn to live with in a better way than today. We must have good compensation arrangements for those who suffer losses of domestic animals for predators. That is why I am pleased that we are now going to look at the compensation schemes and get an evaluation of the compensation schemes we have. I am also pleased that the Minister for Climate and Environment, in an answer to me earlier in the debate, confirms that he will look at a risk-based payment. We believe that this can be a way of reducing loss rates, and that it is better to maintain both the target of predators in Norwegian nature – because they play an important role in our nature – and have a food production based on our rich foreign resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e1068	I'll talk about you guys – that's the thing I've been following. Jerven is one of our predators who have had their natural place in nature for a long time, but who in the first half of the 1900s were about to be exterminated because of extensive hunting, which later helped us to peace the yew here in Norway. In retrospect, we have decided how large the population in Norway should be and in which areas it should be able to move, and we have said that it is the predators in Norway who are going to manage this population, which is very much in agreement that we are going to have. Within their regions, pollinators are responsible for taking the annual quota hunting, licensing and indemnification decisions in order to achieve the national stock targets. This means that they have to deal with observed animals in the region and set figures to meet the targets. It is also the responsibility of individual denominators to allocate funds to mitigation measures where necessary. The Jerven isn't easy to take. It travels over very large areas, and some of the animals can travel over areas of several thousand square kilometers. So it's very demanding, and it's hard to go under license because it prefers to be on slopes and high to mountains where people don't travel. It's also cloud and very fast in motion. This was also referred to in the agreement and in the treatment in 2011–2012. Nevertheless, we agreed at the time that it was a licence hunt that would be the main instrument in the future. Then, in the years that followed, we have experienced an increase in the nitrogen population. We can't take out a high enough number of you to keep the population of 39 coal. Last year the number was 57, which is too much, which means that we get too much loss of sheep and other grazing animals. The centre batch has also previously been a driver to make the hunt more effective, and testing schemes and measures have been made in retrospect. It is important to make the license hunt more effective, not least in view of the fact that we are not going to make a hi-up in order to get down to the stock target. Six new proposals from the Centre Party have now been put forward, one of which, to allow artificial lighting and electronic monitoring as permanent tools for all attacks, are measures that have been carried out over a three-year trial period and are now recommended by the Environment Directorate. We therefore think it is a good follow-up to pass this on to the hearing before final decisions on the changes are taken. The other five proposals I would like to make no further comment, except to refer to the matter and the letter of reply from the Council of State, which shows that the proposals include: may be ethically questionable in terms of animal welfare, or may endanger human beings. It also refers to the fact that we have about the world's best surveillance programme, and that it is therefore unnecessary to extend the scheme. We have a good framework for the management of yorks in Norway [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e1083	Talida's out.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e1088	We can now only note that the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party have abdicated in predatory policy. The party of progress has been going hard in the media over the past few weeks. They would now force the Council of State to follow up the rapture settlement. Yesterday they voted against our proposal to take out the Mangen and Hobøl teams. Today, they are voting against our proposals on other follow-up to the rapprochement. With the exception of the Workers' Party, which fortunately supports the proposal to stop the expansion of the breeding area for bears, there is now a unanimous resistance – except at the Centre Party – to follow up the predatory game settlement. These three proposals are not about rematching; they are about following up the robberies settlement. For all the proposals, the Progress Party has joint comments with SV. So they have adopted SV's predatory policy. I didn't see that coming. In the wild game deal, it says: ‘It is assumed that the achievement of the stocking level of bear will not require land beyond the scope of today’s breeding areas.’ This follows the Council of State by sending a letter to the deer in region 6 that they need to look at the expansion of the breeding area. One of the options now being explored by environmental authorities is to consider whether the municipalities of Holtålen, Tidal and Røros will become a new management area for the bear. This area already has major predatory challenges. They have all the four large predators, they have great losses, there were many injuries this summer, and there was hunting wolf and bear at the same time for several periods. This is an area that is very heavily loaded already. And the answer to those who are plagued with this is that now it's also going to be considered breeding grounds for bears. What amazes me the most is that the Council of State is at all considering looking at these three municipalities, which are the only municipalities in the South-Trundelag that are grazing areas for Sami reindeer. Have the Governments assessed the ILO Convention against this? We know that we are internationally obliged to care for Sami culture, we are obliged to ensure the possibility of performing Sami reindeer. Then the Council of State will have determined whether the three only reindeer municipalities in the South-Trundelag will become breeding grounds for the bear. It's totally incomprehensible to me. We know that on the Swedish side of this area they have a clear policy that all bears in the calving area are taken out on spring snow.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e1109	I have to admit, it's a little embarrassing that the Council of State says straight out that the only reason we're getting information in the Stortningen on predatory game is precisely the initiative of the Center Party. - Good. The management of land and predators is demanding and expensive, but provides valuable nature and food. The importance of the use of grazing resources in the pasture is just the number of predators. The size has been agreed on stock targets, and it is unacceptable that today's government produces the number and withdrawal of predators at its own request. Jerv is an animal that does great damage in Uppland and Hedmark. The stock target is 39 Jervekohl, but the stock is much higher. In 2018 53 coal was registered. Only in Oppland have they found the need for licensing of eight animals in the jerve zone and in grazing priority areas this winter. For the municipalities affected by the Jervessonen – Vang, Øostre Slide, Lom, Vågå, Sel and Nord-Fron – this is of enormous importance for grazing. We must not go back any further than until 2017 when the last SNO had to operate with exceptional off-takes. Due to increased conflict between animal husbandry and management, rapporteurs have written up and people have gone on demonstration trains. On its own initiative, the Rovviltnemender in Oppland has had a review of the 2011 rapprochement. The Committee believes that in particular three areas could improve management. The license trap on you guys is not working well to regulate the population. The technical means of the pilot projects must be permanent in the light of the experience gained. The locals must be allowed to engage in damage detection during winter winter with the use of snowmobiles. It is necessary to establish more robust procedures to ensure that environmental management takes a greater part of the residual quotas on predatory game. In the case of grazing due to large wild game damage, the management must have all the means at its disposal to take out the pests that lead to grazing. Furthermore, the State of Oppland is clear in its feedback to the Ministry on the use of camera surveillance on fishing booths and lights on the ate. This is simply about how they can do this job, how they're going to spend their time, and how we think the animals that are to be taken out should be handled. Is it best for the booths to be controlled by foot supervision – there are large distances to look at the fishing booths – or can a camera provide updates so that any animals in the booth are quickly detected? Is it best that fishing grounds with ate are dark, and that hunters have to run for longer periods of time to follow up the ate, or that the ate has light, so that the activity can take place over a shorter period of time? Here we have to have effective extractions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e1124	There are differing views in predatory game policy, and the SV, the Green and Left Environmental Party, stands for a completely different view from that of the majority and the Stortinge. I respect that. They want a completely different type of administration, and they have not been behind the predatory comparisons that have been made. It's fair enough, they've wanted you to do it another way – yes, in 2012, the Left was also behind the predatory game deal, but they have some other proposals. I respect that, but I don't have much respect for the fact that the Labour Party, the Right Party and the Advance Party are not willing to enter into the discussion, are not willing to discuss these questions, when, after all, they say that they are on the Robbery Agreement that was concluded in 2012. Why don't they want to discuss a matter that takes so many – also by their own voters in the most affected states? Let me repeat: where are the representatives from the most affected states? Have they been hiding, avoiding the debate, should they wait until after the local elections, perhaps? Or are they going to focus on saying things on TV that they don't dare repeat in the main hall? This reluctance of the majority who participated in the conciliation, against taking the debate, and which in so far also attributes other parties to opinions they do not have, I have to say that I find sad for the whole matter – also that the committee responsible for the matter, which should be able to do so, and which should go into the facts of the matter, has not done more about it, but has largely had speakers talking around the crutch and not addressing the actual issues. For what are the facts about you? The Labour Party spokesman said that here were methods that were not in line with Norwegian hunting culture. What are these methods? There's one suggestion here that one might think of as that, and that's the extension of the licensing period. I understand you can discuss that. But when it comes to being able to use artificial lighting, tortoise, or with spore hunting or snowmobiles, that's how to do revectoring and elk hunting. What's the problem with doing this on your watch? With regard to the question of making some funds available, the southern samples may be allowed to look after the reincalves during the calving period: what is the problem with that? Why can't one go in and actually try to take a stand and debate the matter? Then the common oral shells come from the Council of State. One cannot take out one point in the predatory game agreement, one must control by the whole. Yes, that's what an environmental manager says when a person wants to use exactly what's right for you, and not what the parties in the predatory game agreement have actually written. When you want to pick out just what's best, but not what you don't like, those are the words you use. Likewise, we are now to have new professional assessments of you and bear. Yes, it has been said for four years, and it really means – translated: one has no intention of doing anything.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e1137	I kept my post as a case spokesman, but there are several things that are now being dealt with below one, so I think it's okay to say something about the other matters as well. It is an abominable principle for the Christian People's Party that we as a nation should take our share of the responsibility for having viable populations of the great predators, and the costs of it should be borne in mind by the community. Thus, it is a comprehensive compensation regime for the loss of predatory animals and the means to prevent loss-making measures against predatory and anti-conflict measures, known as FKT. The proposers who have put forward this proposal put their finger on the challenge by parts of it, but we still believe that it is not right to go into the decisions above the table in a Document 8 proposal. Therefore, I found it a good solution when the majority in the committee have gathered to ask the government to assess the compensation schemes for the loss of grazing animals to predators and the FKT system, and to report this to the Stortinge in its own way. These schemes – which together aim to ensure that the large community will cover the costs of having large predators in Norway – were in place at a time when we had a much smaller predator population than we have today. And with that, there are some practical experiences we have today that suggest that one should look at them and perhaps update them – and at least get a proper evaluation done. In the setting, we are also looking at the 2004 and 2011 breeding game and the 2016 wolf settlement, and we have argued that the government and the climate and environment minister follow up the agreed leadership from the majority of the population. A good and up-to-date compensation system is a means of a popular understanding of predatory policy – and even more: it is actually about justice and propriety. I think it's good that the committee has managed to gather around wide-ranging conciliation, because this shows that the majority in Stortinget wants to stand up for the two-part predatory policy in Norway, but we're going to do it that way that we both listen to trade and play along with the administration that we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e1152	First of all, I would like to thank the representative Arnstad for his rather pleasant words on the position of SV in this matter. Of course, in the case of the yew, SV opens up to assess new, effective methods of killing. We're open to that, but not without counter-conceptions and reservations. The centre party, after taking predators out, has disregarded some of the disadvantages and undesirable aspects of this proposal: the consideration of other game in wild dog hunting, for example, or the control of snowmobile traffic to and from ate-places. It's not a trifle thing, it's. Or, for example, to speed up the start of hunting even more – then we are approaching dangerous consideration for the satisfaction of our breeding season. And then some kind of heartache from me: here the Centre Party can stand with us in many things, shoulder to shoulder, as I have said – in district policy, in agricultural policy, in view of the EU and, in part, the WTO. And we were united in the fight against the reform of the local police and regional and local authorities, to mention something. I want to say to the Centre Party: we should have had with us all the environmental organisations as well, which will be much of the same as us in terms of sustainable agriculture, marine storage, short-range food, etc. Think only about the imports of feed for power. It is intended that these matters should split an important potential front around these questions. We really needed them to call about Norwegian agriculture and Norwegian districts. In the end: The representative Knutsdatter Strand referred to a number of yorks in Hedmark – or at least in the Inland – up to mountain slopes. I have a comment on that. I also have a standing question to the Council of State. I asked that question the last time we had a predatory debate here in the Chamber, but I don't think the Council of State gave Elvesu time to answer that. Our starting point is that we're going to take you out where there are grazing animals, where there are priority pastures. I think everyone agrees that it's the most important thing. And then we hunt you in the lowlands of Hedmark, where there are no sheep. I don't understand. This has to be explained to me – why it is. Why do not good forces go in so that at least we preserve the Yews who are in the lowlands of Hedmark? A good bike, one single individual, has now managed to hunt down three yurts in the lowlands of Hedmark. Do you see the point? There is an ecological interaction there, including: With the wolf, which is amazing, the yerve comes and takes the remains after the wolf's meal. But there's no sheep in the area, and the yerven does no harm. That question could have been very nice to get an answer to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e1169	Current predatory policy sets out a clear two-part objective: there shall be room for both predators and grazing animals. But the fact is that now is the basis for grazing animals in the process of falling away, even in pasture-priority areas. And then it's a goal that's not in the predatory game deal, but we have to follow, and it's that people have to be able to live with predatory policies, people have to be able to feel security in their everyday lives and get rid of insecurity and nearby animals and the consequences of a misguided policy. I am very pleased that the council said that he must go to Stortinget almost every week to discuss the wolf. Yes, he must – because it is important to people! Yeah, it's the Center Party that gets him here, so we can discuss this, but we're asking because people are wondering. We represent those who have to live with the government's totally misguided wolf policy, and who feel insecure in their everyday lives. We ask on behalf of all those who don't understand why not the Hobøl and Manganese reviruses could be extracted when the stock target of the wolf is far overfilled. We challenge the Minister on behalf of all those who see that it is deeply unfair not to get paid full compensation for the consequences of predatory attacks, even in exceptional situations. That is also why we are making proposals. We are elected to the Grand Council and have access to the Grand Council. And we have the right to make proposals in the Storting on behalf of people in the wolf zone, in the Yurvesson and in bear areas, because politics is the government's leader, is completely unfair. It totally ignores all the many signals given to the minister and government parties that enough is enough. Just three days ago, the Progress Party went out on TV2.no and said they would instruct their own government to shoot more wolves. In recent years there have also been more wolf uprisings in the Right, but the Right and Advance Party are completely failing when it comes to the end, in the Stortinget. It's an amazing shame that the government doesn't listen to people, and today they are voting against our proposals to improve the compensation arrangements, about effective licensing and about the management of bears, yews, wolves and rags that are in line with the robberies deal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e1180	Unfortunately, predatory game has been given a lot of attention lately. There shall be predatory game in Norway, but there shall also be grazing animals, and there shall be active use of the land resources. We have experienced that the level of conflict has been very high, although one of the main intentions of the settlement has been to mitigate the level of conflict. There is a broad and good settlement on the Stortinget. It is natural and particularly important for the Progress Party that these be implemented, and the Progress Party should be involved in following up, not because of the Centre Party, but because of the reconciliation and because of the industry. The centre party expresses its concern at the fact that the SV and the Progress Party are in a position to deal with this issue. That is probably all the reason – I get worried even when I see such votes – but I would have been even more worried if I had been the Center Party and seen that I was standing all alone. Sometimes we're going to think about politics and mark ourselves with what we mean, and with our special points. Second times, we need to find solutions, and finding solutions usually has to do with others to get a majority. Dealing, dear Center Party, is very rarely concluded when one is entirely alone. To find good solutions, the Progress Party has been involved, for the conciliation is not the primary policy of the Progress Party, it is a compromise. The goal that everyone, including the Center Party, is talking about from this pulpit today, is a goal that the Center Party has not supported. Now the Center Party shoots at the Advance Party, which is the party that stands at the Center Party and the Central Party's policy in this area closest. It's very difficult to get solutions if we're just going to draw the case to the limit and not be willing to look at compromises to get along.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e1191	In the Nordic region, there is a broad political consensus that predatory wildlife pressures on grazing are too severe and that it needs to be reduced. The only ones that might not be completely in line with the big, broad political majority there are SV and Left. But this consensus doesn't quite reach this hall. The previous speaker spoke of drawing this question to the limit. Then I have to say that it seems as if it is the Council of State and the government that draw this question to the limit. In Northern Ireland, the Council of State seems to think it is quite right to lay the breeding area for bears in the only calving area for reindeer — in Balvatn reindeer grazing district. Then there are only predatory arguments as the numerator. All other professional reasons and arguments and consideration for Sami reindeer are completely ignored. The Minister should remember that the reindeer in Northern Ireland have the lowest supply of calves after loss, although the pastures in Northern Ireland are very good. The impactors are excellent. Whether this option has the lowest access to calves after loss: The reindeer has a loss of calves of about 60 pst. This also applies in areas where there is no train running, where there is no railway. In Northern Ireland, we have huge areas without trains. And then I want to say a little bit about gauze. It was the representative Nävra who said that Norwegian researchers are good. Yes, in many areas they are, but when it comes to counting gaupe, the basis for setting stock targets is not at all present. It's counted as voluntary. Those who follow this, see that when people repeatedly are not believed when they register gaupe families, when the SNO does not come, and when criteria make the knowledge that is quite obvious locally not taken into account, it is difficult – it is not even right – to believe in population numbers for gaupe.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e1200	I know that I have to stay a little bit at reality, because it's argued as if the Center Party is alone. It is then so good to know that there are thousands of people around in the whole country who are with us in this – most recently in a torch earlier this month. We are definitely important to represent the parts of the people that are not being heard in the department and administration. We represent the inhabitants who are affected by this to daily, those who see and know what it is like to live in predatory game zones, and who burn for good food production and grazing. These people live on huge areas and are administrators of valuable resources in their daily lives. Here we are talking about areas that are popular for travel and that provide the basis for both power generation and not least the good food production that we are so proud of here in Norway. A little use of antibiotics and little use of extensive food production and animal husbandry is something we can be proud of, precisely because we can use our precious expanse. At the same time, it is in today's spirit to look at ways of improving efficiency, and it is precisely the proposals that have been made in the United Kingdom today that point to: effective use of public funds derived from value creation and taxation, and effective management that should not seize huge resources without land. For example, today in Uppland, we have a county, a county municipality, 26 municipalities and thousands of inhabitants who spend huge resources on irritation around predatory game conflicts. There is a daily frustration related to planning work, killing loops and, in particular, ex-post complaint procedures. This is not effective management. In addition, effective withdrawals are focused on animal welfare. Being able to allow the administration to use all available resources is not about being barbaric, but about being merciful to the animals involved, the hunters doing the job, and the management decisions, which are to be followed up. The management has no surplus and the resources available to them must be used with care. Basically, we shouldn't have to use this detailed instruction from Stortinget's side, but I see that's what we have to do when there's so much distance between those who are affected at the very bottom of the hill, in the individual municipality, and the department. There is a need to ask questions about how the dialogue between the ministry and, for example, The County of Oppland is when the reality of the feedback from the State is so far from what the Ministry proposes. We can be proud of the world's best food production. We have nutritious milk due to grazing on herbs that we would not otherwise have been able to exploit. I hope we can have that in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e1215	There were a few comments from representatives from the Central Party that made me take the floor. One was the comment that the Council of State only responds to the initiative of the Central Party. To be honest, I'm too much of a debate, but what you say should at least have a few points of contact with reality. To Mr Arnstad's remark that the Labour Party, the Right and the Progress Party are not taking part in the debate: what are we doing here all day? Is this an illusion? We are taking part in the debate, both in the media, in the storeroom and at various conferences on this topic. We disagree with some of the conclusions of the Center Party, but Arnstad argues that she respects the fact that you can disagree with the Center Party. She was standing on the platform right now and claimed that it could be respected – but obviously not. Maybe it's just respect when it's right for the Center Party. At the request of the representative that the Committee has not intervened in the matter. Well, that's a completely different sense of reality than the broad majority of the Storting has in dealing with these three issues. Everyone has been up and talking about the good cooperation that has been in the Energy and Environment Committee. These matters have been worked well in the Committee – just as these matters were worked well in the Committee when Marit Arnstad himself was part of it in the previous period, when the Centre Party had almost identical proposals. So let's think about the reality. In the case of bears, most of the hunting methods proposed are already permitted – in cooperation with the SNO. As far as you are concerned, the majority proposes to send to the hearing a proposal for permanent testing schemes with fixed artificial light for the attack and electronic surveillance of fishing booths. I can't see that the Center Party is part of that proposal. And when it comes to compensation, precisely because we see that this is a demanding situation, precisely because we understand that it has been a long time since an evaluation of how the schemes are going on, the majority of the government is asking to assess the compensation schemes for the loss of grazing animals to the game of prey and the compensation scheme and to return to the Stortinge in an appropriate way. I can't see that the Center Party is part of that proposal. This is an important debate, and here you need to understand everything that's happening out there. But the posts we hold in the debate should at least have some points of contact with reality when describing the positions and engagement of other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e1230	I choose to start with the representative Arnstad, who mentioned which lots were part of the predatory comparisons. The left has been part of the big predatory comparisons. So it was the last part, which was the number of wolves in 2014, where we wanted a few more. We're in charge of predatory transactions, and that's also what we're managing on the government platform today. It's active management. Here, there's more money, there's more knowledge of management, and there's no alternative to collecting stock targets than what we have today. If we start over, it'll be another 10 to 15 years before we have a timeline that allows us to manage on a different basis. Yes, it is that the Center Party asks a few questions and engages in predatory policy. For all things – they have to do that. And that these are asking on behalf of a few thousand -- yeah, there's someone going on a demonstration train and demonstrating outside the Storting. But it is also the case that the left and the other parties – today there are actually all the other parties – respond on behalf of the approx. 80 pst. of the population who want predators in Norway. That's what robberies are all about. So it's finding the administration, and we're developing it over time. I live in the Inland. I have a cabin in Hedmark and live in Oppland. We live closely on this, but it does not concern everyone in everyday life, and the people I meet are concerned that we should have sound management, that we should have knowledge of the management, and it is not only on behalf of those who have domestic animals, but also on behalf of the predators we want. We have confidence in the administration we have today. That one manages to trap predators today – last year there were record wolves, for example. – the technical aids are not so much due to the fact that we have become better at hunting large predators in Norway in recent years, we must train them. And it's not ElB's bureaucrats in Oslo who do that administration, it's employees in the State's nature agency and others who have a lot of knowledge and are in the field, which is too much of the good administration. Then there are some challenges related to zones. They are not artificial, but it is a government that we have politically said that we need to have just to manage... [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e1242	I'm going to try to answer some questions, but first I'm going to stress that it's important to bring with it the results of the robberies and the two-part goal that the Storting has adopted. The losses of predatory game in the last five years have been reduced by 46 pst. From 2007 they have been reduced by 58 pst. Looking at losses isolated for you, we replaced over 16 000 grazing animals in 2006. Last year we replaced 5,600 animals. So the development is positive, and this happens at the same time that from 2017 to 2018 the sheep population in Norway increased by over 2 pst. Of course, there are challenges where you have great losses. Last year they had it in the north-east valley, Fosen, Meråker and Bardu. It'll happen later. There may be different places, but we need to have a management where we're trying to reach and stay on the stock targets while the positive development with losses to predators continues. As I said in my post, we are now above the target of yours and wolves, but we are under on the bear and gaupe. Then it's about having a government that balances this. The representative Arnstad reopened that we are not following the robberies agreement, that we are just pointing out that we have to take the whole robberies deal. With regard to the management plan and areas of bear in predatory game region 6, the only change there from 2011 has been a reduction. It's clear that we have to try to run a management, and that's part of the predatory game agreement as well that we're going to have 13 juveniles of bear. As has been pointed out earlier, the inside is moving little. I am pleased that we now have an agreement between the Environment Directorate and the forest game topic in region 6 that we are going to gather more knowledge. But the management plan is firm. Also for the predatory game region 7, which Siv Mossleth also mentioned, the plan is taken after it has been pointed out that the targets have not been achieved over several years in the region. Here we have a good process of predatory wildlife. A new meeting shall take place on 20 February. And finally... that's not what I'm going to say. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e1255	We have a speaking time, and we have to try to keep it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e1260	I want to encourage the Council of State to draw up a new post, because he was not at all on my question, which concerned the evaluation of the ministry when they have picked out the three municipalities in the South-Trundellag, which are grazing area for tamrein and calving land for tamrein, as current candidates for a new breeding area for bear. In ‘Samian Numbers Teller’, predatory game was reported as the only intervention 100 pst. by the reindeer in the area were affected, and it was also cited as the main cause of mental challenges in the Sami population. I have been on the Municipal and Administrative Committee for many periods. Previously, the Left has been engaged in following up ILO Convention No. 169, where we undertake to observe the Southern Sami traditions. Of course, it must be assumed that it is still possible to operate Sami reindeer. If this becomes the breeding area of the bear, it will be completely impossible, and it will then die out. They point out that this is a much bigger threat and was ranked much higher than wind power, cabin expansion, mineral industry, etc. The representative Heggelund claimed that the Central Party does not respect different opinions. Well, we have absolute respect for different opinions, but parties who say one thing outside this hall and something completely different when they come into the hall, who say one thing in the media and vote against when they sit in the hall, I just have to admit that I have zero respect for it. The center party is not on its own. There were 10,000 in the lawn here and demonstrated earlier this month. It was a historic event, because they did not demonstrate that the Storting should take new decisions. They demonstrated that the Storting should ensure that the decisions taken were implemented. I think it's never happened in Norway's history before. Heggelund also talked about the point of contact with reality. Then I think maybe he should put himself a little better into the matter. He said that today it is allowed to use these instruments in cooperation with the SNO. I wonder whether the representative simply does not understand the difference between withdrawals after a claim permit and a licence search. The SNO has nothing to do with the license hunt.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e1271	I have to say that when I heard Mr. Heggelund's posts, what I got with me was three words – clearly the government's three favourite words – namely: evaluate, evaluate and investigate. What the right here is saying is that they're not going to do anything about today's predatory policy, a predatory policy that's out of control. I have to ask the Government Party for something. A few days ago, we were able to see representatives from the Progress Party use big words on the TV 2 news. Here the Progress Party said that they should make proposals. Yes, they would instruct the government to take out more wolf. Today it's quite quiet. Yesterday, during the debate on the Declaration of Governments, it was also quite silent. The Progress Party voted against the proposal of the Centre Party to withdraw the Hobøl and Manganese teams. I notice that it is easier to stand on the TV 2 news and write on Facebook and talk with big words, but my question to the Progress Party is: When will the proposal to instruct the government? I think there are a lot of people who want an answer to that. The reality is you can't do anything about this. It seems that the Progress Party hopes that this will only pass, but I can promise it will not pass. To the government council Elvesuen, who is almost complaining that the centre party is asking so many questions about predators: I can say that the centre party is going to ask even more questions about predators, because this is a matter that is important to people. The representative, Mr Kjeseth, is about a debate on whether you are in favour of or against predators in Norwegian nature: it is not a topic. We're going to have predators in Norwegian nature. But here it's about following the decision of the Storting and the stock targets that the Storting has adopted. Then to the representative Halleland. The Progress Party says that the Center Party is alone in this matter: No, we are not alone at all. We stand up to thousands of people who live with predators close to themselves. We stand up for people who get their nutritional basis threatened and destroyed by predators. We can see that, among other things. on the demonstration which was outside this hall only a few weeks ago. We are in the hands of more than 200 rapporteurs who have signed a coup d'état against the government's predatory policy. The centre party is not alone in this matter at all, and it is time for this government to move in. The center party is going to continue this fight. The problems don't just go away.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e1284	A few comments: The Labour Party was accused of not participating in the debate on these issues. I think that was a somewhat strange claim, because the Workers' Party has accepted a number of these proposals. We are voting in favour of the proposal to have more attempts on you. In the case of bears, we say – together with the Centre Party – that we should not increase the area in region 6, and in the case of the compensation scheme, we clearly say what kind of compensation scheme we want, and we are also there with the Centre Party. What's true is that we don't agree with the Center Party on all questions concerning predators. The working party went, among others. into an agreement with the government and the Christian People's Party on the stock of wolves, which the Center Party did not. Now we're recording that most people support the deal, and I think that's very good, because it gives predictability of what is going to be Norwegian policy in this area. I really want to give credit to the Center Party for our very good cooperation on these questions both here in the Stortinget and also locally. The core of the problem is that the government is not following up. There has been zero contact between the government, the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party, who were their conciliators in this matter. Both the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party say that the government does not follow the consensus we have. That means that there is not really a majority of the wolf policy that the government is pursuing. One thing is that the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party say it, but also many of the government's representatives say it. Terje Halleland said you choose to ignore the wolf settlement. Terje Halleland said that after Bård Hoksrud had presented it just before Christmas. Morten Ørsal Johansen said that the government is bluffing in what the Storting says. Olemic Thommessen stood in the lawn and demonstrated against the government when he himself was the staging president. There are examples that this government has been totally unsuccessful in creating peace and anchoring for the policies they run. With Ola Elvesuen and Vidar Helgesen, the level of conflict has exploded. Then it is permissible to think that not everyone else is wrong, but that you may have done something that has contributed to the situation you are in. So when the Workers' Party and the Centre ask to explain this in Stortinget – come to Stortinget and discuss it – it takes more than seven weeks before we get a response, and then the answer is that they see no purpose in doing so. I think it's a very arrogant behaviour by the government under Erna Solberg's leadership. It shows that this government is not interested in listening or cooperating with the other parties – nor the parties with which they have concluded agreements. That was the reason why the Workers' Party did it quite unusual last night to vote in favour of a proposal – as a result of which we no longer have any cooperation with the government on this issue – which instructs the government to follow up what the Stortinget has previously decided.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e1301	The representative Siv Mossleth has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e1306	Governments must be misinformed about the situation in Northern Ireland. North Norway and Nordland have the highest proportion of royal eagles. The stock targets for you have been achieved and have been achieved for a long time. For gloat, the count is too bad – we have repeatedly asked that we get better populations of gloat. And actually, we don't have room for 14-20 bears in a state where the access to the reindeer calf after loss is just 40 pst. I should have said a lot about compensation today too, but it seems that I am not getting time for it. But it's a little annoying that the real loss that was before the predatory population became too large is not taken into account when normal loss is calculated.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e1313	Because of the hearing in the committee, I have not received the whole debate, but I cannot help but tell you a little about the experience we have in Sogn and Fjordane and the West. Last summer there are wolves in four municipalities, in both Fjaler, Høyanger, Naustdal and Hyllestad. Apart from a few hundred lambs and 20-30 lamsaus were taken by days, in part in a quite bestial way. Injury was also decided upon, but no wolf was killed. Just before Christmas, NINA found out that the wolf, which is still going to the West, comes from Sweden – northwest of Stockholm, he comes from. So he's not Norwegian, he's an immigrant to the country. Now, of course, license hunting is allowed – on 29 January the County came with it. The problem is, who should do it? These municipalities have no hunting laws. It's a fjord, a mountain and a long way to hunt a Swedish wolf that's still on the move between the different locations. I could think of righting what the minister would contribute so that one could actually extract this wolf. This is a grazing area, the wolf has nothing to do there, and he has to go. There have been two harmful traps. No wolf is field. Now it's a license hunt. Of course, it's to see what it's going to look like. But the experience of the test project that one has had in Sogn and Fjordane with you, starting from Årdal, has shown that using artificial light, electronic surveillance and snowmobiles, it is also possible to extract pests from otherwise quite inaccessible areas in the high mountain. My question to the Council of State is, what will he do to actually make sure that this wolf is drawn out, and that even more of you are taken out? Then I have to say that it is quite provocative to the right that SV wants more predators further west – thank us for having them far east, and preferably east of the Swedish border.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e1324	I was going to say something about the killing of predators and measures around it until I heard the statements of the Council of State. He said something about the result of the comparisons we've made, and how it would've hurt. Among other things, he said: loss of grazing animals, including: sheep, is reduced. Yeah, that's right. Then it's okay to ask yourself the question, why? Yes, because there are no grazing animals left to eat; there are no more grazing animals left to kill. As a result, losses are reduced. Then he said that the total sheep population in Norway has increased. Yeah, that's right, but where? Not in the areas within the wolf zone and in the areas around, but elsewhere in the country. And what did that result in? Well, that the basis of life for a good number of farmers has been lost, what they have put forward in the future. And these are farmers who, a few years ago, had to let go of dairy farming because the conditions in these areas were not conducive to it, and they were encouraged to start with sheep. Now this base is gone. My question is, what are these farmers going to do now? Bananas may be an opportunity. Then I'll say a little bit about the Center Party and their short-term memory. I remember that the Center Party sat in government and said one thing and did something completely different. There's a difference between sitting in government and sitting in opposition, and I'm happy to admit that in opposition we did the exact same thing as the Center Party, and it worked. Finally, we have not made any suggestions in this matter with regard to the wolf, because this debate, I understand, is not about the wolf at all, it is about everything but the wolf. But you can take it easy, the Progress Party will enough to deliver its proposals. And I think we're actually going to be able to agree with the parties that have entered into a predatory deal, about how we're going to do it in the future. Finally, let me just say something about this with compensation schemes: Heggelund was into it, so I'm just going to mention it just like that in the end. The arrangements we have now may not have expired – they have expired. Here, something has to be done, and the government has said, and the proposal lies here, that changes should be made and that changes have to be considered. Then we have to figure out what the biggest problem is, figure out what kind of changes we're going to make, and then we're going to do it. But that something has to be done, there is no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e1335	The representative Marit Knutsdatter Strand has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e1340	Now I was very pleased with Mr. Örsal Johansen's contributions, because he took up many of the same points that I noticed. And to the representative Halleland: then we know that we are not alone, we have Ørsal Johansen and his view of the team. One of the points is exactly what Elvesuen picks up, with record withdrawals, which can be related to record populations. He goes on to record low losses despite more sheep, but then the very question is, Where is the sheep? Are there grazing animals left in the field, or are they kept in the field, where there is greater infection pressure and often more need for additional feeding and irrigation? The Council of State says we have to balance the management until we are above the stock target for you and wolves, but below for other species. What's this balancing going on? Is there any new means to extract from you? Will the test systems we have today be permanent, at least until the stock target is reached?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e1350	These wolf debates in Stortinget are quite predictable for most of us. Actually, we can sum up the Central Party posts in the following way: Wolf, wolf! And that often happens when we discuss other things than wolf, which we should have actually done today, that happens when we discuss climate. The theme is wolf. No matter what all the other parties say in this room, there's an impression that everything is completely hopeless, it's completely dark, unless all the wolves disappear. For those of us who are concerned about dealing with the wolf settlement and keeping the wolf population in check, it seems quite counterproductive when absolutely everything related to the wolf is blown up as if it were to be doomsday tomorrow. We need respect for those who live in the wolf zone. We who do not live there should not minimize the challenges of living and living there, and even worse: getting rid of the foundation of life. We're going to be very careful about that. But sometimes I get the impression that this is about everything other than wolf. I get the impression that it's about politics, it's about strategy, it's about communication, and it's about creating a conflict line between city and country that will serve some parties. Yes, the government has to follow up the wolf settlement, it should just be missing, but I think we in the wolf debate make quite a lot of money doing it in a slightly different way than using the caller every single time we talk about the wolf.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e1361	The representative, Marit Arnstad, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e1366	The representative Westgaard-Halle obviously thought that I've been talking about wolves, but I haven't talked about wolves, I've been talking about what we're dealing with today, namely bears, yerv and substitutes, and it almost hasn't talked about. It is possible Westgaard-Halle believes that this is strategic. I can explain the point. And when her co-representatives don't come from Westfold, but come from Trondelag, or Nordland or Hedmark, there are many of them who also agree with us. To the representative Halleland: we are going to conduct this debate and the fight alone if we have to. We know that many people agree with us. We know that these debates are going to force themselves. Nor can the FrPs hide in the skirts of the Left for ever; this debate forces itself. Let me use the last fifteen seconds to give you an explanation of vote. When it comes to expanding the bear area, we know that a majority in this room would have agreed with us if they had been given the opportunity to vote freely. They don't get that today. That is why we are also choosing to convert this proposal, i.e. proposal No. 1 to a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e1375	That is proposal No. 1 converted into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e1380	Let me first say that I believe in the honesty of the Center Party in their commitment to the predatory debate, there should be no doubt about it. I'd like to say a little about what I was going to say first, and it's about killing and measures for killing. In the case of, inter alia: You know, there are now extended experimental systems using artificial light and camera. The pursuit is a little special and is used in some hunting forms today, but there are strict restrictions just on the lookout. It also has to do with animal welfare. As far as you're concerned, it's incredibly difficult. It's actually one of the most difficult forms of hunting there is, because the yerven is a small and quick trick, but it's going relatively well when one first has the jack code for how to hunt it. What's the problem and one of the big challenges is that there are very few people who have seen this game. It is a management hunt that is going on – like both deer hunting, reindeer hunting, elgacating and ‘you name it’. So it's hunting. The more hunters you get to understand this hunting form and to be in it, the bigger the killing percentage will be, and the easier it will be with withdrawals. Experience in hunting suggests that you become a better hunter, and no kind of hunting is equal. I think that making the game popular and getting more hunters will contribute a lot, as well as that one can use hunting forms such as, among other things. booth and supervision of the booths. That's the bear. There we really have a good management, we have a lot of good hunters with a long experience that can trap bears, and that do it in an incredibly good way. To be completely honest, I think the biggest challenge with bears doesn't apply to the population we now have, because it's about half of the population we're going to have, and it basically says everything. I think the stock target will be a challenge in the future, because if we're almost going to double the bear population, I think we're going to have big challenges in those areas that -- no, I said bear? Yes, I said bear, I'm a little busy with the wolf too. So, I think the biggest challenge with bears is if we're going to have a population that's coming up against the population goal. Then I think the challenges are going to be big. It may be that we should take an evaluation of the predatory game agreement and see if the stock targets are in line with what we saw when we adopted it, or whether the stock target of some species might need to change something.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e1395	It is quickly done to sour with bears and wolves – «same same but different».
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e1400	A few more answers were requested. First, to the representative Navarsete, who brought this up with the killings also in areas where there are little predators. I have no other answer than that of course there are predators and the FKT funds, i.e. in collaboration and contact with the SNO and the Environment Directorate, who are looking at how we can get that preparedness. So to the representative, Mr. Greni, who said I didn't answer the question about the possible expansion of the bear zone in Trøndelag. I do not know that the department has been involved in looking at those municipalities. What has been our approach is that we need to have an assessment of the area, whether it has a scale and a location that is suitable enough to achieve the population target of the bear. A knowledge acquisition shall be carried out. The management plan is valid and no change is made to it as it is now. Knowledge acquisition must be carried out here, and assessments must be made on the basis of this. There was also some mention of censuses and quality of monitoring, among others. by globular globular globular globular globular globular globular globular globular globular globular globular globular globular globular globular I think the administration should always look at how to get as good stock assessments as possible, but I think we have the world's best monitoring system in Norway, and no one else has the knowledge we have. And Rovdata does an independent job, as they do to have that knowledge. The representative Borch suggested that I was dissatisfied with getting questions. I'm not at all, it's good to get questions, and I'm happy to answer all the questions from the Storting, including all those about predators. That's no problem. That's good. So to Ørsal Johansen and the grazing priority and predatory priority the goal. It's true that I'm saying that one achieves results, that reduces losses, but it's clear that it still has consequences, and that it has consequences in the grazing priority areas. It's absolutely right that sheep on the field are now few or none of them within the wolf zone. Now, the number of uses has fallen both outside and within the grazing priority areas, but within the wolf zones, the latest NIBIO figures show a small increase in the number of uses, and also a small increase in the number of sheep.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e1417	The representative Arne Nävra has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e1422	No matter what signs you have on these predators, you get a population that is quite small, it's actually at a low level in Norway compared to many countries in Europe. But we have predators in Norway, and according to the bulk of the population, we have to have them. Then the question is, is there any way to exploit it commercially? Is it possible to make money on the animals that go there, which nevertheless are there, and that not only do harm? Maybe we can make something out of them. I just want to remind the representatives that we have a mini-seminar on February 19th on this particular topic. These include: the chairperson of the committee, together with the undersigned who invites. There's a lot of talks, and they're making recordings around making money on predators. It may not be so stupid – nor from the basic owner. I hope the greatest possible representatives get there.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e1429	That was today's commercial.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e1434	I'll start with Westgaard Halle's posts. As the representative Arnstad said, we have talked about much more than just wolf in this debate, but if Westgaard-Halle thinks it is predictable when the centre party talks about wolf, I agree with that. It becomes predictable because nothing happens from the government. We are talking about the need to follow the rapprochement, that there must be justice in wolf policy and in predatory policy in general. As long as the government keeps the status quo and doesn't do anything, it's clear that we continue to press for those issues. Westgaard-Halle said she gets the impression that the debate is about everything but wolf. I really think that was a good point. I can partly agree with the Westgaard-Halle representative in it, for the wolf case is extremely important in itself, but it is also a symbol of much more than the value it has as an independent debate. It is a symbol that the government is overrun by people and is overrun by District Norway on a case-by-case basis. It is a symbol that it is very far from the decisions taken in the departments of Oslo, to the everyday life of people who have to live with the consequences of government policy. It's a symbol of the amputation that people feel when even the government does not choose to follow Storting's policy, as the robber's agreement. How then should the common man in the street feel that he can have an impact on what is happening in Norwegian politics? That way, the wolf debate and predator debate are about much more than just predators. I would like to say to the representative Halleland that I do not fully understand whether he believes that we agree or disagree. I cannot quite understand whether he believes that the government is following the robberies agreement or not. I perceive that we agree that the predatory game deal must be followed, but does the representative believe that the predatory game deal is being followed as it is today? That question can also be addressed to the Right. Recently, we had a huge demonstration outside of Stortinget. 10 000 people had come in from all over Norway to say that enough is enough, the robberies agreement must be followed. Do the representatives here today, from the Right, the Progress Party and, to the left, think that the 10,000 people travelled here are in vain because the robberies deal is already being followed? There are questions I would like an answer to. You have to listen to people. You have to take over what people are asking for, and start following the robberies settlement. If you don't have to be honest that you're not going to do anything.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e1448	The representative Sandra Borch has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e1453	I do not know where the representative Westgaard-Halle has been in this debate, or whether she has been in the debate all along, because the representative Myhrvold has been talking about compensation, the representative Mossleth has been talking about yerv, the representative Greni has been talking about bear, the representative Arnstad has also been talking about bear, the representative Knutsdatter Strand has been talking about yerv, the representative Navarsete has also been talking about yerv, and I used my main post to talk about the challenges that have been around bear in my home country, Troms. So a majority of the Central Party posts are actually about the issues we are dealing with today. But it's possible Right thinks that all predators are wolves. So it's not. So for a little explanation of vote. With regard to the proposal for a representative on yerv, the Central Party will substantially support the proposal of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e1460	The representative Heidi Greni has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e1465	The representative of Ørsal Johansen called for an evaluation of whether the stock target of the bear should be evaluated. I fully agree with that. When we see the major challenges of today's bear population giving to the grazing industries, I think it would be impossible to maintain the grazing industries at today's level if the population were to double. It will also be completely impossible to fulfil our obligations to the indigenous population, complying with ILO Convention No. 169, if we're going to have twice as much bear in Norway as what we have today. The centre party is absolutely interested in assessing a reduced stocking target for bears, because we see that the level of conflict that exists today is increasing and there are major challenges with all four predators. In addition, if we have a double population of bears, grazing will be harmful.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e1470	The post to the representative, Enger Mehl, actually confirmed exactly what I said. Everything gets so violent, it's black or white, everything or nothing. The government does nothing, she said. I don't think SV, the Green Party, or most environmental organizations that care about predators, particularly agree that the government doesn't do anything about wolves. I'm a farmer, I'm a member of the Bond Team, and I really agree with the Center Party in a lot. But in this case, they push away people like me. In this case, the Centre Party creates conflict and not solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e1477	It is very pointed out that one does not discuss the wolf here today, but now I was really challenged directly if the Progress Party did not want to shoot more wolf and follow the agreement. Yes, the Progress Party will shoot more wolves. We want the agreement to be followed, and we also want to grab hold of it so that we can achieve the agreement. It has nothing to do with the comparison of how many wolves are shot, the comparison only depends on how many are to survive. I think most people have come to realize that the Progress Party is not satisfied with the administration that has been done now. But when we are discussing compensation schemes, when we are discussing fishing methods for you and bear management, it is not natural for the Progress Party to make proposals on other matters affecting wolves.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e1490	The representative Emilie Enger Mehl has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e1495	I am pleased that we have been told by the Progress Party that they disagree with their own government in the policy being pursued. I understand that they will not make proposals today, but they had the opportunity to vote in favour of the proposal of the Central Party yesterday – proposals that they themselves have gone out into the media and said they should promote. When we chose to promote it in the absence of the Progress Party, they chose to vote against it. To the representative of Westgaard-Halle: I understand that it can be very powerful for a vegetable farmer from Westfold. But I'm from a farm in the middle of the wolf zone between three wolfevir, and I understand as well the 10,000 people who came in here to demonstrate that the predatory game policy that the Storting has agreed to is to be followed. The frustration is enormous, and I do not think there is any reason to hide it – nor in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e1502	It's almost unlikely to hear the arrogance that some people in this room show towards ordinary people trying to create an industry, trying to create an income, trying to create a life around Building Norway. It's quite incomprehensible when you've found your own lambs walking in a ring with yervebitt over your neck and lir. Fortunately, my husband had at that point guns, we were going to hunt, so we could kill the lamb. I could not have done that if I had gone there without a gun. Is it not all one of the predators who cares about the sufferings that are being inflicted on domestic animals? It has amazed me for years, and it would be interesting to get an answer to why it is so unlikely to be important to protect those predators who create so many pests for domestic animals, so much suffering and so much misery for people trying to create a livelihood. It is incredible that someone can stand on this pulpit and say that we want more predators to the west, when we see what the decision to move the borders of Yervesona, which was made in the Valdres-Gudbrandsdals region, has led to. They've had the invasion of yours after that, in areas that should be priority for grazing, and it takes the livelihood out of the hands of people. Now, with respect, I have not been told the whole debate, but I would like to get an answer to the question I asked: Will the Council of State sympathize that the tests that have been made with artificial light, using snowmobiles and other tools such as cameras, are more used than today, so that one can take out the predators that one has decided to take out? There are too few, ok – but at least make sure they are taken out. They're going to be far too little today, because it's hard to get it right in a country like Norway with our topography and geography. But back to the beginning: the arrogance that some in this room have toward the everyday life of ordinary people who through generations have bided out in our districts -- it's almost unbearable to right.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e1511	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e1527	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, the possibility be given of changing the sequence of six lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e1536	First, I must thank the Committee for its good cooperation in the matter. There is an overall committee which points to Norway’s national contribution under the Paris Agreement as a notified target to reduce emissions by at least 40 pst. by 2030, which we will implement together with the EU. At the same time, Norway has legislated by the Climate Act to be a low-carbon society by 2050. It is important for Norway to work both nationally and internationally to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement. I believe that the other parties will explain their views on this matter, but at the same time, on behalf of a majority of the Committee, I have to refer to the climate strategy adopted by the Stortinget in April. It contains a number of measures and instruments to help Norway reach adopted emission targets by 2030, in line with European and international commitments. I must also stress, on the part of the majority, that a comprehensive policy for reducing emissions embraces many different sectors, and that this means that measures and instruments must be incorporated and put into a system in a number of areas. It requires, in the view of the majority, that there be sound, thorough and predictable political decisions on the ground. I would also like to point out that a number of the measures proposed in this proposal for a representative have already been either adopted, implemented or under investigation. This is also the basis for not supporting all the proposals that are being promoted here. I would also like to point out from the Centre Party that, in cooperation with the EU, the 2030 target for non-quota emissions can be achieved mainly through domestic emission reductions, but it comes in addition to the use of the EU regulatory flexibility mechanisms, a negotiating space the Centre Party believes Norway needs to use. There are significant opportunities for domestic emission reductions, and this is an important priority which will ensure the necessary conversion in Norway towards the low-carbon society. At the same time, it is important that emission cuts are implemented in the most cost-effective way possible in order to maximise emissions for the money. This has been and is an important principle of Norwegian climate policy. It is a fundamental principle of climate policy that emissions reduction takes place in all sectors and that climate policy design in society in general and in any sector in particular is based on the climate impact desired. However, emissions related to food production and biological processes cannot be directly compared to emissions related to other sectors, because the target of emissions cut in this sector can never be zero. It was also established by a Joint Nutrition Committee in the context of the 2017 Agriculture Communication. The assessment of the most appropriate instruments for triggering actions in the various fields cannot, in the view of the Centre Party, be unaffected by other policy objectives and societal considerations. It is important to stress the importance of the design of climate policy in a way that ensures continued national food production and does not further impair the ability of agriculture to produce food for its own population. This is precisely what should be in a special position for Norway as regards the vulnerability of Norwegian food production and the national responsibility we have for self-sufficiency. Measures to reduce cross-border meat production, which has been addressed by this government but which are likely to lead to increased cross-border meat imports, are an example of measures that the centre lot cannot stand behind. The centre party is impatient to bet on the major climate measures that can actually significantly reduce emissions both globally and internationally. In particular, there are progress and investment decisions for the projects started around carbon capture and storage, and also the launching of a CO2 business transport fund. I was worried when I heard at the Political Quarter one morning that the government has not started negotiations with the NHO to get a CO2 fund in place. That is why the Central Party supports these proposals that have been put forward today. So I'd like to address the proposals no. 17-19.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e1555	The representative Sandra Borch has drawn up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e1560	What disappointed me most about the new government statement was climate policy. It did not take the necessary climate promises to achieve. The world has only a few years to go, if we don't want to increase the degrees by half. We're not acting like we're supposed to. This government has a policy to break the climate targets for 2020. By 2030 we have not set our own national target. The Labour Party thought that we should have our own national target, that we should cut Norway and invest domestically. We did not want to buy ourselves free – and received support from an overall environmental movement. It meant Højres Stefan Heggelund for six months ago was Trump's policy. Now Trine Skei Grande boasts that the government believes the same thing. The problem is that that's not true. The problem is that they have tightened up the rhetoric, but in small print in the statement, it says the same thing. They open up for a still large-scale purchase of allowances. It's up to Siv Jensen to decide if it's necessary. When the government doesn't deliver in climate policy, we do it in Stortinget. The Workers' Party and SV have made 37 proposals on how we can get a more offensive environmental policy, on how we can get to the big emissions cuts here at home, in Norway. The Green Party supports almost all the proposals, and the majority is also supported by the Centre Party. It clearly shows where the most ambitious side of the policy lies. But the new government is therefore voting against every proposal – not one of these proposals does the government think it is worth looking at. Yesterday the government promised to listen to the Storting. I think we can safely say that they cancel on the first day. And if criticism from the Workers' Party doesn't go hard on them, you'd think they'd listened to their friends in the NHO. The new NHO manager believes that it is so serious that the proposal for a CO 2 fund for business is being rejected today, that it is equally likely that all cooperation can be broken – an initiative LO, NHO, ZERO and 22 other organisations are behind it. Now the whole cooperation is at stake because the government says no. You'd think you'd listen, but no. Right Stefan Heggelund answers by figuring them out, and they say they haven't understood anything at all. We see it over and over again – a government that neither listens nor cooperates, and that about the matter that needs it most, the climate issue. Yesterday the government also refused to start a work with a new climate settlement. The climate issue is really facing tough conditions with the new majority government. But we're ready to do the job in opposition. We have the options that are needed. We want to make the construction sites more environmentally friendly. We want a big effort on environmentally friendly transport, on buses, cars, trucks and ships. We want to transform our agriculture climate so that we can produce the world's most climate-friendly food. We want to bet on technology that captures CO2. Developing new technology is good for Norwegian climate policy, and it is crucial for the world. Here the government has been a sink. This should be a major effort for Norway. It needs political leadership, but we see the opposite: cuts and postponements. This is bad climate policy, and it is bad business policy. The workers' party's climate policy is good for the world because it gets emissions down. It is good for Norway because we convert Norway by creating new jobs. And it's good for people because we have a climate policy that's fair, that includes everyone, that's adapted to both those who live in town, and those who live in the district, those who have a lot of money, and those who have little. The shift to climate-friendly society must lead to a reduction of differences, not an increase. I do not doubt that Ola Elvestuen has a great commitment to combating climate change. I am quite sure that there are many of the proposals that are being put forward today, which he would like to see the Left vote in favour. The problem is that he has made himself the junior partner of the Right Party and the Advance Party. And then this is the result. The Labour Party is ready to take the lead with the rest of the opposition, with good forces around Norway, in municipalities and cities, with business, with trade union movement and with the environment movement. We do that through the proposals we are making today, and we will continue to do that. I address our suggestions in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e1589	The representative of Åsmund Aukrust then put forward the proposals which the Labour Party shares with other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e1594	First, I would like to thank the Committee for a good cooperation and the rapporteur for a good work on this proposal. The fact that we have good cooperation in the committee also makes me a little surprised that I am constantly being misquoted by the representative Åsmund Aukrust. I have not said that they are conducting a Trump policy – I said in the context of the Acer debate and the debate on the EU climate strategy that we were talking about international cooperation in the Norwegian word change a little in the same way that we do not like to hear from over the pond. I believe that is a completely legitimate criticism of some of the arguments that we received in the context of the two debates. But let me thank you for the debate we had yesterday. Because regardless of what you think about the government statement – which I don't think is very surprising – it was a debate in which the Committee on Energy and the Environment really got a foothold by talking about the most important issue of our time, namely man-made climate change. It's important precisely because there's so many other things that rest on us being able to solve it. For example, the difference is 1.5 degrees and 2 degrees. how many hundreds of millions must live a life of poverty. It can affect refugee flows, food production and where we can live. Therefore, and for many other reasons in addition — e.g. that combating climate change will be directly economically irresponsible – this is our generation’s major challenge. Then it is also good when it comes to proposals, regardless of the party from which the proposal comes. In this proposal for a representative, there were originally 37 proposals, and I think that it might be a little interesting to discuss how climate policy should be managed, because there are actually real people in real jobs who are going to change and reach deadlines set by the authorities. All sectors shall be cut. This is government policy: we are going through all sectors with concrete measures for cutbacks, and all sectors need to be converted in order to reduce emissions. But it's going to happen in cooperation with the community. We're both going to make it more expensive to pollute and contribute to climate technology. I have no objection to temptations. In some contexts it is absolutely necessary to have time-limits, e.g.: how we did it with the world heritage fjords. But those deadlines must be both sustainable in climate terms and sustainable in such a way that people can still be allowed to have a job to do. That is how we operate in climate policy. I agree with the rapporteur, Sandra Borch, from the Central Party, that there is little new in these proposals we have on the table today. The representative proposal is about new mitigation measures and instruments in Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions by 2020, but none of them contribute to cutting greenhouse gas emissions by 2020 – none of them. And a number of these proposals are already taken care of by the government's policy. So the climate policy of the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party has obviously just been going through documents about what the government is already doing, and then typing them into this Document 8 system that we have on the Lion Gate, and promoting them as if it were their own proposal. Is that how we are going to conduct climate policy? Is that how we're going to do it? I agree that we should think more together about what proposals and actions to come, and when we are going to go through all sectors to achieve the ambitious goals set by the government – reach 45 pst. in the non-quota sector until 2030 – we all need good forces. But is it then an unnecessary polarization of the debate we need? Is that how we should go forward? Should we not also view this as a common task, where we are trying to put party politics aside? So to the concrete proposal on which there has been some debate, and where I was also misquoted by the Aukrus representative. This relates to the CO 2 fund for industrial transport. There are two problems with the proposal. One is that it describes something that is already happening – it is being negotiated about CO 2 funds for industrial transport. But then there is the second problem: that the Workers' Party and SV want one specific model to be locked up. But what is the point of the negotiations? That is what I was wondering at Political Quarters this day, because when the NHO claimed that they would break the cooperation if we did not vote in favour of this document 8 proposal from the Workers' Party and SV, I almost had to answer: does it vote? Are they leaving the negotiating table? Fortunately, during that debate, it was cancelled, and I think it is good that we should continue the important negotiations in order to get as good a policy as possible in order to achieve the ambitious objectives we have set for the transport sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e1621	Now we are dealing with a representative proposal on a point list to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. A point list is considered to be reliable and looks offensive to the out-of-earning eye, but it is not when many of the proposals are recycled, proposals that the government is already working on. The Committee that has examined the proposal is familiar with circular economy, but circular policy is not as good. The rapporteur himself said that this is not much new. It was one thing that was written like I was stunned over, which I liked. It was from the Environment Party of the Greens: ‘However, this member notes that the proposal concerns only Norwegian emissions and does not address Norway’s largest contribution to global greenhouse gas emissions, namely emissions abroad caused by Norwegian petroleum production.’ In a way, I agree very much, because it is absolutely true that Norway's main contribution to climate is petroleum production, but not in the way that the Green Party or other environmental parties think. Whether environmental parties like it or not, each single cubic metre of gas sucked up from the seabed causes greenhouse gas emissions to decline. We are thus replacing the dirty European coal, which we all want to replace, with pure Norwegian gas. Unfortunately, this proposal does not mention that much. Then we even have a party that says that everyone is going along, but that no longer applies to the oil industry, which is not going along, and Norway's main industry is getting fewer and fewer friends. Amazingly, though, Norway’s most important industry makes more friends abroad. I would quote the Chancellor of Germany, Angela Merkel, who said the following to the German television station ARD a few days ago – I have translated it into Norwegian for the sake of ease, so that it should be clear: In view of the planned low-carbon development, natural gas will play a greater role in the coming decades in Germany. It must be delivered from Russia, but also from the United States and other states. The infrastructure will be expanded in all directions. Yes, that's absolutely true, because Germany is phased out of its coal, and when they phase out their coal, they have to replace it with Norwegian gas, which means that global greenhouse gas emissions are falling. No matter how you turn it around, the climate challenges are a global problem, and then we have to find the best global solutions. Finally, I would also like to point out that probably the person who is going to shut down the European gas power plants is not yet born, but I see that the debate on Norwegian gas production is at its peak. I hope that part of the representatives will come into their posts here, so that we not only discuss the expensive domestic measures, but also the elephant in space, which is coal-fired power stations in Europe and how to phase it out.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e1641	In a year’s time, Norway would have seen a sharp reduction in its greenhouse gas emissions. Unfortunately, over the last few years, this government has been aiming at breaking the climate agreement, which was widely agreed in this room in 2012. Instead, we are promised new climate action and increased ambitions from the government parties. Now emissions are to be cut by 2030. Well, we're going to do this, it doesn't keep waiting for the next accumulation period or the one after that to start the emission cuts. We have to start here and now because investment we're making today, determines how society works for a long time in the future. A new building may have a lifetime of 100 years or more, a new factory may have means of production with a lifetime of several decades, and an average new car will remain on the roads for 18 years. That is why the investments we are making and the decisions we are making today must not only be defended against the people of today, they must also be defended against those who are not yet here. They must be defended in the light of the world’s need to halve greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 and eliminate them completely by the middle of this century. Norway has a very good starting point to be among the countries ahead and shows that it is possible to combine lower greenhouse gas emissions with good societal development. Norway may make a difference internationally. We have shown this both through electric car policy, on which there is broad agreement, and through the effort to conserve rainforests. In my hometown on Monday a new battery factory was opened at Siemens. One of the most important things that politicians can do is to create a market for climate solutions, make it profitable to produce and deploy zero-emission solutions, make sure that the order books of Siemens’ new battery factory in Trondheim are filled. This is at the heart of many of the proposals that SV has made, including: together with the Workers' Party, in this matter. Last year the Stortinget decided to impose zero emission requirements on cruise ships and other tourist boats to enter Norwegian World Heritage fjords and tourist fjords. The requirement shall enter into force in 2026. This requirement has attracted considerable attention and is welcomed by the sectors of industry producing zero-emission technologies for shipping, but it was not lacking in those who said that the deadlines were too tight and that this was impossible. Today we could have taken some further steps. Today, as I said, we could contribute to the fulfillment of the order books at Siemens, Trondheim. We could agree to make demands on, among other things. the breeding industry on zero greenhouse gas emissions in new farming concessions. This would have speeded up the demand for wellboats and operating boats for the farming industry running on clean electricity or other non-emission energy sources. But this market will not be part of either the Right or the Advance Party or the two environmental parties Left and Christian People's Party. Global greenhouse gas emissions are now higher than ever. The devastating climate change is under way. We cannot continue to investigate the climate problem, as the government puts forward in its response to our proposals or in the new government platform. It is not only a pity that the government parties – with the Left and Christian People's Party, who have been important allies in the climate issue in the past – are voting against absolutely all our proposals today, because not only does the government break the 2012 climate agreement, but the government parties are today also laying the foundation for new climate promises to be broken in the future, when they vote against all of our proposals to get the emission cuts started here and now. I bring up the remaining suggestions that SV is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e1662	The representative Lars Haltbrecken has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e1667	I think it's okay, for those who listen to this debate, to take up the background on this matter and the moment it was promoted. The Labour Party and SV promoted this well as the debate went to its highest in the Christian People's Party on page selection, when a certain hope was that one would change the government in Norway. It's interesting to follow that thought a little bit further. What climate ambitions should we get out of these 37 proposals that are different from what the new government platform says? On 17 January is now a few days ago. It also says that it was not so easy for the position in Stortinget to sit and negotiate with the opposition about this while negotiating a new government statement. For the Left, it was at least much more important to participate in the negotiations at Granavolden and make sure that we have now raised the obligation to cut 45 pst. by 2030 in Norway. That's a cool ambition. But we also review the studies that have been done, and published in the Evening Post today, that people's willingness to contribute is great. We have people on the team, they're willing to change. That's some of what's happening right now. Last year, for the first time, an electric car was the most sold car in Norway. We're going to go on to the commercial transport and heavy transport, but we're also going to expand the charging stations that come with it, at the same rate as people and businesses change and buy new technology. In this way, the instruments are important. We have raised Enova with a lot of money and have a lot of tools. We have committed ourselves in the government platform to growth in the CO 2 tax, and the blending of biofuels and electric car policy continues. So the pace of conversion is great. In addition, we will now start on the construction sector. By 2025 it shall become fossil-free. One of the great promises and the great opportunity we have to cut inland emissions in the next few years is to ensure that the major construction projects, usually ordered by the public sector, actually cut emissions during the construction process, but also to ensure that the next 30, 40, 50 years of construction will be minimised. Part of the government platform is a global effort. We are increasing efforts in the climate fund, and we are going to invest more in renewable energy and contribute to it in other parts of the world. It is also important in terms of climate adaptation – where we are a major player, both by developing technology in Norway, and also by contributing out there – where, in particular, sea level rise is a major challenge for those living on island groups, and where we see hurricanes and other natural phenomena respond and provide major challenges for populations with low protection. The representative Lars Haltbrecken mentioned his own hometown, Trondheim, which last week opened a battery plant, and much of the technology inside the factory was supplied by my neighbor town, Raufoss. So here too there is a robotization, a digitization and a large-scale Norwegian development of technology that can just help build such factories. The next step is to build a car factory in the Inland to build batteries for cars, while in Trondheim it is very focused on the maritime sector. Speaking of the Inland: A new isolation plant is built based on wood fibre on Gjøvik, where Hunton is a builder. Now, Woodrock comes in and probably wants to settle in the neighborhood. They shall combine tiles and other composites into new products. It is becoming one of the first sustainable circular industrial areas in Norway, and during this year we are also going to develop a circular strategy. Much of what has been put on the table here, which we are going to do by 2020 – so we have a few months to implement it – we need to have a few more years on, but most of this is, as the representative Sandra Borch said, already in order and under development.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e1688	Norwegian climate policy is full of hairy goals and broken promises. It's been a long time, and it's still a long time. It may not be so strange — as a survey recently showed — that three out of four Nordics say they have no faith that Norway is going to achieve its 80pst target. Cut by 2050. Then it's our job to disprove it. In 1989, Gro Harlem Brundtland presented Norway's first climate impact report. The government went in to reduce the growth of CO 2 emissions in order to stabilise them during the 1990s, and then to reduce them. That's what Stortinget thought was too passive. Several batches went in to tighten up the targets, and the Centre Party went the farthest and wanted to halve Norway’s greenhouse gas emissions by 2000. It went, as we all know, not very well. Emissions grew throughout the 1990s. Ambitious climate targets are very good, but that's not enough. At times, Norwegian climate policy has been exposed to measures and instruments such as monks. But something is about to happen. It might seem that we are about to have a new climate opposition in Stortinget. The representative, Barth Eide, recently said we can't make peace with the search for fusion. It shows that the Workers' Party is moving. But then party leader Jonas Gahr sprang out to avert the debate a few hours later, and it shows that the party has a long way to go before they can call themselves a green party. However, these 37 proposals we are discussing today will undoubtedly help cut greenhouse gas emissions in Norway, and the Greens will vote in favour of them all. We are pleased that the government is already taking several of the measures, and we think that we hope that the government parties will look at today's debate and the decisions we may get, as an opportunity to speed up. In particular, I would like to draw up the proposal to introduce sectoral obligatory action plans on how to reduce emissions by 2030. That proposal is about getting more control of climate policy, and it will be a clarification of the climate law as it is today. We have such sectorial obligating action plans in the Oslo City Council, where the Green Party, the Workers' Party and SV govern together. We have done so with great success, and it has received international recognition. But if we're going to halve the emissions by 2030, which we need to limit the heating to 1.5 degrees, we have to go further. The largest hole in the Workers' Party and the SV's original proposal is that none of them affect the speed of oil extraction. Emissions from Norwegian oil and gas extraction have increased by 78 pst. since 1990. The oil sector is the emissions industry in Norway. The Climate Risk Committee report states that the more ambitious global climate policy is, the less Norwegian oil will be worth. The EU shall become climate neutral and add up to 70 pst. the decline in energy imports into the EU in the years to come. It will hit Norwegian oil and gas exports hard. Nevertheless, the government subsidizes oil companies by billions when they want to look for more, and, unfortunately, the Workers' Party is also helping to bless it. Agriculture is another sector to which these 37 proposals only concern a hare lab. Making Norwegian food production sustainable requires quite major changes in Norwegian agricultural policy, but the climate problem of agriculture is simply. It's a little bit about the fossil energy that agriculture depends on, but it's also about -- and that's the core -- that the Nordics eat twice as much meat as we did in 1960, and 50 pst. More meat than we did in 1990. Either the Nordic Council of Ministers, the EAT, the CICERO or the NIBIO will receive the same answer: the most effective climate action in Norwegian agriculture is to produce less meat, combined with measures to make the North eat more plant-based. This applies even though the Green Party agrees that in a non-profit world – and this goes especially to the Centre Party – there is a difference between biological carbon and fossil carbon. It's just that we already have a climate problem, and even the emissions from agriculture, from natural gas and methane, are extra-heavy and dangerous in the short term. Less meat eating in rich countries will also save Norwegian society billions in health expenditure each year. It will also radically strengthen Norwegian self-sufficiency. So we are pleased with this opportunity to discuss climate action, and we hope the Stortinget will join us in the Greens in an even more radical climate policy for the future – including in oil and agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e1710	Norway needs a fair environmental policy. We don't have that today. That means that as a community we have to make some structural choices to ensure that we reach the 1.5 degree goal, and not that we leave it up to the wallet of most people whether they want to make environmentally friendly choices or not. But that's what we get with the government's policy. Those who can afford to buy electric cars and thus save money in the bombardment. Those who cannot afford to replace their car have to pay even more in environmental taxes for the use they do not get everyday to go up without. We have little time to stop climate change, about minus 20 years. What we can do now is limit climate change and limit it to 1.5 degrees. Getting there requires a lot of action. We need to set goals to cut emissions in Norway, not just through the purchase of cuts out. We need to transform the oil industry, use the expertise of those who work in the oil industry, in new renewable industries, and that will require us, among other things. ceases to subsidise oil exploration. Then we can get 12 billion. kr to build new and environmentally friendly industries with many jobs along our entire coast. There's no lack of knowledge about what to do, not technology. There's also the will out there among people to do something for climate. What is missing is political action on the major issues that we cannot solve separately, but that must be decided jointly. We can't build more railroads just on hard work or let the NRK arrange the big land-flow day. We cannot convert the Norwegian industry into hard work or wait for the oil companies themselves to choose to leave the oil. We cannot leave to sports teams and associations to do the overall upgrading of Norwegian hydroelectric power plants, which would be the country’s biggest ever action. It is these social projects that must be adopted and jointly implemented that are prioritised here at the Storting with money and resources, not just with goals and ambitions. Then the government has a almost inconvenient belief that new technology and so-called green capitalism will be able to save us, even though we know that eternal growth on a planet with limited resources is completely impossible in the long run. What we need is an environmental policy that ensures fair migration, and that means taking political responsibility, which the government does not. They suggest that all competing companies in the country will grow, but how will the NSB be able to deliver both better and cheaper train offers when the airline tickets are becoming cheaper and there is no focus on building fast and or more double tracks? The government will also build a new runway on the Gardermoen. It will increase the capacity at the aerodrome and place a lot of arable land under asphalt. Today they have a goal that Avinor will provide 4 pst. annual increase in air traffic. At the same time, most people have to limit the flight. It should be up to each and every one of its wallets. Increased growth at the same time as environmental taxes is an unsocial and poor environmental policy. Instead, Red suggests that the government change Avinor's goal of 4 pst. annual traffic increase to 4 pst. annual traffic decline. These are real environmental policies that ensure the changes needed to achieve the 1.5 degree target, which are not symbolic policies that provide tax relief to the richest with one hand and that distribute environmental taxes with the other hand. With that, I take up Red's proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e1727	The representative Bears Moxnes has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e1732	The latest report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change shows how dramatic the consequences of climate change can be. It shows the difference between 1.5 and 2 degree heating. The world must therefore have a much larger and faster conversion than what we have previously planned. This problem can only be solved through global cooperation, and Norway needs to cut its own emissions significantly, rapidly and adequately. Through the Granavolden platform, we strengthen climate policy. The Government wants Norway to report an enhanced climate target to the UN in 2020, and further that Norway’s non-quota emissions by 2030 will be reduced by at least 45 pst. compared with 2005. This is a significant strengthening of policy. The government believes that the reduction will take place domestically, and plans to do so. By 2050 Norway shall be a low-emission society. In the Granavolden platform, the government says that we want to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 90-95 pst. by 2050. This is a strengthening of the legal objective of the Climate Act. We are now working on a low-carbon strategy and will present it to the Stortinget during the autumn of 2019. To achieve the climate targets, we need to do more of everything. Since 2013, the majority of citizens have raised the overall level of greenhouse gas emissions, which this year amounts to DKK 508 per tonne of CO2. In addition, we have lifted a number of reduced rates and exemptions. In the Granavolden platform we warn that we want to escalate the flat CO2 charge by 5 pst. annual for all sectors up to 2025. Norway is and will continue to be a leading country in zero-emission solutions in the transport sector. 31 pst. of new passenger cars in 2018 were zero-emission cars. And we have to continue this electric car revolution. In the Granavolden platform, the government has said that a continuation of the exemption from the one-off and value added tax will continue this large-scale period. The goal is that we only sell electric cars or zero-emission vehicles in 2025. The government is working on an action plan for fossil-free public transport by 2025. Urban buses shall be emission-free in 2025. The Government will also provide an action plan for alternative fuel infrastructure. We will continue to invest in rail and in public transport, bicycles and corridors, in cooperation with the major cities. The government is also working on a green shipping action plan. The goal has been raised to reduce emissions by 50 pst. by 2030, and an action plan for the use of hydrogen is also being implemented. Together with increased research resources, the Eco-Technology Scheme, and now also the establishment of Nysnø, Enova is a key instrument in promoting innovation and the development of new energy and climate solutions. For example, in 2017, Enova allocated over 1 billion. kr to projects in the transport sector. Landing installations for the charging of full and partial electric ferries, all-electric autonomous container ships and the testing of hydrogen buses are only some of the examples. We've also increased the transfer to Enova by 444 million. kr in 2019. The Government has introduced a ban on the use of mineral oil for the heating of buildings from 2020. We will include the use of mineral oil for construction drying and building heating and the ban on fossil oil for heating. This will be introduced from 2022. This is an important step towards the objective of fossil-free construction sites in 2025. The use of mineral oil for heating agricultural buildings is prohibited from 2025. We're also working on a strategy for a circular economy. Better provision of resources throughout the whole value chain is an important measure for the future. We also need to develop technologies for the capture, transport and storage of CO2. Norcem and Fortum Oslo Heat have received grants for the pre-projection of CO2 capture at their plants. The budget for 2019 is 163 million. kr for further work on a full scale project. We will further strengthen climate policy in the coming years and work systematically on this. We will carry out an investigation with comprehensive proposals for actions and instruments to achieve new climate targets by 2030 and 2050 on the basis of the Climate Action Model – this as a work also to present a plan with the sectoral objectives needed and with concrete actions to achieve the 2030 targets. I note that the Committee is promoting a number of proposals for climate action which have already been widely implemented through the policies of the four government parties. We need to make a quick transition. Good climate policy is created through concrete actions and concrete instruments.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e1764	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e1769	It is in itself refreshing with full war between the NHO and the government. I just wish, when the Right first used the big league against the NHO, that it wasn't about them having one too ambitious climate policy. Last night, the head of the NRC said of today’s vote: ‘This is going to be a serious disappointment for business and a lost opportunity to achieve emission reductions.’ They say that they believe that further processes need to be withdrawn if the government does not ‘rapidly give strong signals’ that a solution will be put in place. My question to the Minister for Climate and Environment is whether he can now unequivocally meet the expectations of the NHO, industry and other organisations and say that there will be a CO 2 fund for business transport in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e1781	Firstly, it is important to say that we should reduce the emissions from the transport sector by 50 pst. towards 2030. It also implies that the transport of nutrients and heavy goods vehicles must reduce their emissions. The government in the budget has set at 444 million. kr to Enova for measures in the field of heavy transport. So here it's a significant effort. We have conversations about how the device of this cooperation should be. The NHO wants a CO 2 fund and has been clear on how they want the device on it. We've made a model where this goes through Enova. But now we're in conversations, and we're going to have a meeting next week to see if we can move on, and see how we're going to agree. That there will be an effort to reduce emissions from heavy transport, there is no doubt about it, and the government places considerable weight behind it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e1791	I don't think this answer was very reassuring. They say it's just a copy of the government statement. There's no way. The Declaration of Government is quite unambiguous in this area. It is said that there are negotiations and talks. Well, the NHO says that there are no negotiations, and they say they've been going six months in meetings with the ministry to get negotiations going, and they don't get it done. My question is: when you cannot give such a guarantee that this is what you are for – you say it in the pulpit, but practice shows something else – what is the government’s argument against doing this big measure, which would lead to large emission reductions in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e1798	I fully agree that we should have strong measures to reduce emissions in heavy transport and elsewhere in the transport sector. There have been conversations during the autumn. In fact, it has been to clarify the different positions, both from the NHO and from the ministry and the government. And then we have to see in the meetings and negotiations we're going to have, if we agree on a model. But it's not like there's only one way to do this, and it means a lower CO 2 tax that will then be transferred to a separate fund. We've spent money on the state budget – 444 million. NOK – and then we'll see if we can agree on a common model. But in any case, there is no doubt that we are going to have emissions down, even within heavy transport. And both we and NHO have a common interest in finding an agreement on how to implement it, in cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e1806	We can't stop right there. The Council of State spoke about ambitious objectives in the Granavolden Declaration, and that is a good thing, but there is therefore a proposal for measures that the Stortinget has asked for since 2016 and, as we know, will provide a quick, big cut. The size has previously been reassured that yes, there are conversations – or ‘negotiations’, it is said, now it is ‘conversations’. If there are negotiations, the positions cannot be locked, and then the question is: Is the government's position locked, so there's nothing to negotiate about? As the NHO sees it, there doesn't seem to be any movement from the government at all. Have you locked yourself into one model, or is there room for real negotiations to find a solution that both parties can live with?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e1811	When we're going to meet with the NHO next week, and I'm going to participate in it, it's to have negotiations, and then it's to see if we can reach an agreement – and then with the normal movement that's possible within a negotiation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e1817	But I want to ask you one more time: is it such that the government's position is locked to the so-called Enova model, or is it also opening up to a variant of the NO x fund model, i.e. an independent fund that business itself can manage and manage?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e1825	Then I have to repeat the same thing: when we are going to meet with the NHO and have negotiations, it is based on the fact that this is a debate, and we are going to see if it is possible to reach an agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e1830	The Government Platform states that Norway should cut its emissions by 45 pst. by 2030. When the platform was presented, we could hear the leader of the Left saying that this would be done in Norway. When we read the platform, we heard the shout from the Progress Party and party leader Siv Jensen that it will open up so that this can also be done through quota purchases in Europe. In 2012, with the support of the Left and several other parties, Stortinget set a target that Norwegian emissions by 2020 should not exceed 48,6 million tonnes. How high will Norwegian emissions be in 2030 according to the Granavolden platform?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e1837	Then it has to be 45 pst. reduction – from 2005. It is, in order to follow the consensus in the EU, in the non-quota sector, and then it is the 43 pst. the reduction that is currently in the ETS sector. It is important to take with us what we also say on the Granavolden platform, that we want a higher level of ambition, which we will report to the UN in 2020. We also believe that the EU, where we now want to be part of the system, should go to 55 pst. reduction. It will have implications for the targets and expectations in the quota sector and may have an impact on the non-quota sector in Norway. In terms of flexibility and the possibility of holding allowances in other countries — and non-quotas — it is part of the obligation. The whole point of agreeing within the EU is that one should set goals. We will plan to implement them in Norway. If one is not able to do so, it must ensure that those emissions come somewhere else in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e1844	This debate is really about the 37 original proposals from the SV and the Workers' Party, but this is also the first meeting of the Chamber with the Council of State after the government statement was presented. We had a pretty good debate yesterday, on which the Elvesu State Council was not allowed to attend. There I tried to clarify what it actually means when the platform has exempted the transport for this CO 2 tax – i.e.. the transport will be subject to the CO 2 tax, but there is a compensation there, which is probably a victory for the Progress Party, so that neither in the transport of goods, i.e. the commercial transport, nor in the passenger car transport, is the CO 2 tax to be noted. It effectively cancels the climate action it should have been, especially for passenger car traffic. Here are the questions: How will it affect the ability of the government – with its instrument package – to achieve the objective of halving emissions in the transport sector by 2030? That's the one. The second is: how will it affect CO 2 funds and the debate now on emissions reductions in industrial transport?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e1863	The most important thing is that we have to continue the transition we have in the transport sector to a zero-emission technology. There is the one-off fee that is the most important instrument we have. It is at the moment of purchase that a change is made. For electric cars, we're now up to 31 pst. sales. It has to be reinforced, and the goal is that it has to be 100 pst. zero emissions in 2025, and we also have the other objectives in the transport sector. In addition, to reduce emissions rapidly, one has to use biofuels, but with the dilemmas it brings. Then it's true that the CO 2 tax is an instrument. Just in front of most people, the level of charges will be somewhat the same as today, but we have to use all the other instruments we also have at our disposal – such as public acquisitions, laws, regulations and injunctions, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e1875	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e1880	I'm very, very pleased with the great commitment we see to the climate of everyone – not absolutely everyone, but almost all – parties in the Stortinget. This document, the 8th, underlines that. Here, a lot of good suggestions have been put forward that most people agree on. That is also why almost all the good proposals that have been put forward are already under way. But there's still a couple of points that I disagree with. In particular, it concerns the proposal that will make the rental market a little tight and expensive, and points that alone cost 10 billion. kr without cutting any emissions. But the proposal to extend urban growth agreements seems to me to be a really good proposal. The current restrictions in NTP on what they call the nine largest urban areas are challenging. The problem is that it is not the nine largest urban areas. The city of Westfold, for example, is number seven, but it's not on the list. Transport is one of the areas in which we have the greatest emission challenges. This is exactly why the government implements a lot in that field. We have a lot of time on the railways, the intercity development with a new tunnel in Oslo, so the trains go faster to us who live a little further away from the city. We have green car charges, which now means that every other car sold is a low or zero-emission car. The list is very long. Initially, I was actually going to use this post to praise the opposition, but then I heard the post of Åsmund Aukrust. The representative rammed up a long list of matters he was concerned about, and which he for some reason thinks he is alone about. I think he needs two things. First of all, he needs a reality orientation, and then he needs to re-read the government platform. As a bit of a nice exercise, he could have compared this Granavolden platform to, for example. The Soria Moria Declaration. To refresh my memory myself, I read through it. There are basically three things about climate – three things: we have to cut emissions – fine, it means so far everyone. We need action plans – that's fine. We need to prepare for climate change – and that was it. We are honoured here by a little French visit by Red. That's what Red often does -- they come in and out, and then they disappear. Red is really a very fascinating party. For some reason Red relates to a completely different world than the rest of us in the hall – a world where Europe is bad and Vladimir Putin is very kind and a hero. The representative of Moxnes is talking about investing in technology, but business is going to stay away. We're going to bet on renewable energy, he says, but we're not going to have cables. Then I wonder where the representative Moxnes is going to send the power surplus, because we have a part of it already. Red actually underlined a feeling I often have at the meetings of the Energy and Environment Committee. We have a committee of parties that agree on very much in climate policy. It also shows the motion for a resolution No 8. Finally, I would like to say that I am very pleased that the representative Haltbrecken from the Socialist Left takes the words «creating a market» in his mouth. Then there's hope, I think. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e1897	In my post yesterday, I was critical of the doomsday prophecies that the opposition easily rained over this hall. Like Lene Westgaard-Halle, I wanted to have a slightly different introduction here today – an introduction that gave honor and praise to an opposition who wants to contribute to the climate debate with more than just telling how miserable everything is going to be, without providing suggestions on how we should align the policy. We have listened to the Council of State doing well because there is a process on most of the proposed proposals. Furthermore, it is important that we have processes that create legitimacy in business and in the population, and follow the lines drawn, for example, by the distribution instructions. Uncertainty and decisions that are not discussed with the parties will result in implementation and operationalisation not being done in a trusting and good way. In climate and environmental work, it is important that we also have opinion with us, otherwise the ground will be unnecessarily steep. We also have rules when it comes to referring to the discovery of proposals as a promoter, for example, for point 9, about the urban growth agreements, which in itself will amount to about 10 billion. kr. I like an opposition that is constructive and actively involved in achieving the climate targets we've seen. Even if they did not hit the plan this time, it is good that we can go out together and face the ambitious sectoral government action plans when they are ahead – that we can jointly advocate a strategy for the circular economy, a green shipping action plan, a hydrogen strategy and fossil infrastructure plans. Between the submission of the draft document 8 and the debate in this Chamber now there has been a major political event that we were delighted to discuss yesterday. The Granavolden platform and the new government have seen today's lights, with further enhanced targets for a more resilient Norway and a more resilient value. This helps to reverse the expectations of the current work in the Ministry from the orders made in previous decisions, to which the Ministry's response to Document 8 is shown. I look forward to bringing together good climate and environmental measures that will be tough enough when that time comes. But then we are at least certain that previous processes, which have given legitimacy to the implementation of the measures, will lead us against the ambitious emission targets that we have seen.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e1912	The government has presented a government statement that is very ambitious in the field of climate. Among other things, we need to: have a gradual escalation of the CO 2 tax, a charging policy that rewards green choice, and an aid policy that builds renewable energy in poor countries. An offensive climate policy is absolutely necessary if we are to achieve the emissions targets and become a low-carbon society by the mid-century. Today, we are debating a number of climate proposals from the opposition. Good suggestions are always welcome, but as we could read from the letter of reply from the Council of State, several of the proposals have already been adopted or under work. Unfortunately, the opposition seems to be more concerned about the issue of climate policy than about being a constructive player in the debate on emissions. It might be like that, when we have such an ambitious platform in this area. So there's a lot of talk about the transport sector. There is no doubt that emissions in that sector will have to decrease. The CO 2 fund has been discussed here. As the Council of State says, this has not yet been concluded, and there are still negotiations with the business community. It would be very unwise to adopt something in the hall today and lock us into one model. Let's see what comes out of the negotiations. We are all supporters of good measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, but rather let us spend time on a constructive approach to this rather than on what appears to be symbolic policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e1929	Half of the North's climate footprint from travel is due to aircraft. Long trips contribute to many kilometers, of course. Despite significantly more residents in Sweden, there are more passengers from Norwegian than from Swedish airports. It's an important fact to take with you. Two of the ten most fledgling flights across Europe were domestic routes in Norway. Emissions from international voyages are not included in Norwegian emissions and the emissions from intercontinental journeys are not really taken into account. We simply have to use new instruments to limit air traffic. But instead of looking critically at the enormous growth in air traffic, especially abroad, the government and the bulk of the population are putting themselves on the ground for what we can call the forecasting, and responding by telling us about the need for airport expansions – to meet the growth, as it is called. It's a completely passive attitude. A simple grip is at least to stop the planning of the third runway on the Gardermo, which we propose today, together with the Central Party and the Green Party. We therefore also support the Red's proposal to change Avinor's objective of increasing air traffic to an objective of limiting it. Then we can read page up and down with magnificent ads in the newspapers about exotic travel destinations – we all have. It's the travel industry in its full right to do, of course, but it's becoming quite a lot of climate-conscious travelers now, who want to know something about what kind of travel this is, and what it leads to from greenhouse gas emissions. That is why we are promoting a proposal to ‘investigate an introduction of a climate declaration that tells about the greenhouse gas footprint of the flight in the purchase of air tickets and come back to the Stortinget by 2020 at the latest’. This is an excellent proposal, which we have received from Grandparents' climate action. They've been involved in this. We can also refer to the recently established platform in Sweden, where there is a somewhat similar wording. We have to arrange for people to be able to drive smarter, and they have to be informed about it. This would also be an incentive for airlines to increase their share of biofuels and to operate more energy efficient aeroplanes to reduce emissions. I should almost like the Minister for Transport to be here in such debates. And I wish that the members of the transport committee were here during such debates, because it's actually that in the transport committee – where I am sitting – they give gas, they give a lot of gas, and the committee that sits in this room, basically, is trying to slow down. So you should probably talk about one of the most important fields to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e1945	It's very interesting to hear this discussion, because there's a lot of commitment in this committee to address the climate challenges – and it's about all the parties. But we are also impatient about what is the real political power of the government. Erna Solberg came to power in 2013 and began talking about green conversion. The business community wondered what it really was she was driving and talking about – this was nothing new to them. The conversion was at least nothing new. But green conversion is becoming more and more relevant given the situation we are in. We get a report after a report that shows that climate change is both coming faster and hitting harder. Then we have to grab hold, and we have to do it faster. I'm starting to get tired of sitting and waiting for the government to do what it should do with the big, important issues that this committee is dealing with. We have carbon capture and storage, which is an important matter, and which is the single measure that may help the most, and which costs the most. As long as it costs, the government gets very scared and thinks: No, we can't be involved in this, or we have to find others to take the costs, etc. Not even the funding models we need to put in place for carbon capture and storage, Stortinget has got, so we don't know what's going on. Entrepreneurs say that by 2020 the investment decision has to be made, and if you don't have a plan now and can't get speed on that job, it's not going to be clear from government teams in 2020, with a green light for investment. I don't think so, so here's the hurry. We're impatient. As far as the circular economy is concerned, the government came up with its policy in the big news last year. But we sent it back, because it wasn't content, it was a description, it wasn't action. Now they have to get up speed, the dear government, when it comes to taking concrete action. If there is a strategy without new policies now, we will be so much in deficit that the EU will be far ahead, and we will sit at the back of the platform waiting for a train that has gone. Norway cannot operate climate policies in this way. In the case of CO2 funds, it is a matter of reducing emissions in the transport sector, which is incredibly important. There's the government against everyone, really, because the government comes up with an answer that business hasn't asked for. The answer is that Enova is going to take care of it, but there's almost no one else who has that answer. The representative Stefan Heggelund said that you are sitting and negotiating. No, the negotiations have not begun, so Ole Erik Almlid in the NHO has no table to go from. He has to try to get to that table, and he's screaming for space there, so that you can actually try to find solutions and get started rigging a CO2 fund that can give business commitments, that they want to take, and that's a sensible solution to the challenges we're facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e1956	Climate debates are important, but at the same time I would like to say that I think that the proposal we are now considering is somewhat demanding, with a wide range of measures across sectors and sectors, which deal with both policies already adopted and new policies. It is – with all due respect – difficult to deal with. It is a little unwieldy and, in our opinion, a somewhat poor form of work for Stortinget. That being said, the Centre Party has nevertheless considered each proposal seriously and thoroughly, because we are committed to putting action in place that is effective, measures that effectively contribute to the achievement of the objectives set. For us, it is more important to win that form of competition, namely ‘action that works’, than to win the competition for the most ambitious climate objectives. The centre party is taking climate change seriously. Everyone has to put up with the transition, and that is why we need an effective climate policy. Today’s proposal takes on a large and very small scale. I wish we could put together even more force behind the big measures. One of the measures that the Central Party wholeheartedly supports, we have been to this day, a CO2 fund for industrial transport. Here we are, as I have expressed on several occasions, very impatient, simply because it's urgent to get it in place, and because it's a very low-hanging fruit. It's not just low-hanging, it's over-ripe for harvesting, and it'll give big emission cuts almost immediately. It has been said that it can help cut greenhouse gas emissions by an estimated 25-30 pst. by 2030 in the sector. Every time we've asked the government about this, the answer has been the same: you're in negotiations or conversations. I guess we didn't get any more answers today about starting conversations, but the patience of business with a government that doesn't want real negotiations seems to be over. Negotiations are about not being stuck in positions, but about being able to move. We are concerned that we are now about to throw away a momentum and play the chance to get into port in collaboration with a highly motivated business. We also support the clear requirement for a binding progress plan for CO2 capture and storage. If we're going to achieve the climate targets, we're not going to get out of it. This must be done by stimulating natural processes that provide carbon capture, but also industrially, and Norway is in a unique position. It is disappointing that government parties are not involved in a commitment at that point. The centre party is also responsible for climate change change in agriculture. That debate is – sadly – mostly about what people have on the dinner table. Agriculture is well under way, and therefore the Climate Change Company of Agriculture should also be strengthened.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e1973	We're in a hurry. That is why we are making very concrete proposals. I've been on this many times. I've seen a lot of nice plans, I've seen a lot of nice platforms, but most of it's talk. Action is now needed. If someone thinks that this is complicated and difficult and expensive and bad, they can just wait and look at what's coming if we don't do the right things. Are we really going to send over to our grandchildren and grandchildren to handle it? Norway also has incredible opportunities with the economy we have to do much more. I hear several representatives from the Right are up and talking about the market. Yeah, let's use the market more. It has been proposed many times, both when we are going to act in the public sector, for example, and when we are going to build houses, which we are dealing with in my committee. But what does the Right and Advance Party say? No, it's too expensive. It's much more important to build cheaply. It'll be too expensive. Short-term interests are ahead of the long-term and also mean that Norwegian construction industries are not in the forefront in these areas. I have worked on forestry and forestry and goods we can produce from it. We have to give it advantages and opportunities for development. This development is now taking place in other countries, so that the green jobs come there. I live in Hedmark. We have a lot of long roads there, and we have a lot of railways. On the road now it is soon not possible to move, because there are so many trailers, and there will be more. If we are to get goods on the road and a way to move that does not have such emissions and contribute to such a danger, we need to create a strategy – a national strategy – for goods on the road, and not just a little spot here and a little spot there. It's hard volumes, it's going to take time, but we have to do it, and we have to start with those investments now, because that's what can mean something. But we see that the government platform says on the one hand and on the other, especially in the transport sector, where increased CO 2 tax is to be compensated. Yeah, it's almost like you have to ask if the government has really thought that it's the agriculture that's going to take all these necessary cuts that you've committed to. I really miss the fact that several of these specific proposals could be taken into consideration. There are several government parties who go up and say they agree, but they cannot vote in favour. Is it because it becomes too obligating, or what's the problem? Now, I suppose, soon, those politicians, at least those who have been elected here, who have said that we have committed ourselves to bringing down these emissions, must stand first and foremost in charge of both those who have elected us and those who come after us.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e1989	First to the representative Else-May Botten: Green shift was the new word of the year in Norway in 2015. These included: after Left had a national meeting with it as a theme in Tromsø in April 2015. There has been a lot of political debate in Norway since then. We're going in the breeze. Then, one day I'm going to rewind – or just a few hours, for the debate on the government statement last night took quite a while. At that time, Swedish states were the big ghost in the welfare debate – that now it is going to go wrong because we are going to use the market a little bit more in the welfare sector to give more people a good service. On the other hand, the opposition is not talking about Swedish states today, because that would be an optimistic example. Sweden is a little ahead of us in the conversion. Because they haven't been so dependent on oil and gas, they're even better than us to use, among other things. bioenergy. Norway, Sweden and the other Nordic countries have cooperated on energy issues for 25 years, and we will do so for a further 25 years. The Nordic Council has been an important player, and we will continue to use it. Among other things, carbon capture and storage are important, for there is now a significant interest in Sweden and Finland, but also in Denmark, to work together in the Nordic region to get carbon capture and storage in a large industrial leap. It is also because one sees that the EU is now moving and wants to be part of the split layer, and that the Nordics actually have the overall competence to succeed, and that Norway is in the driving seat with the North Sea basin as the great opportunity to store. Therefore, the Nordic Council is now an important player in order to establish committed cooperation between the Nordic countries in order to release EU funds. Then it says about an innovation in the Granavolden Declaration that the opposition has so far overlooked. It's about microcarbon capture, about biocarbon. There is also a great industrial opportunity over the next ten years. It can make biogas more efficient. The forest industry is getting more of its work done. However, biocarbons can also contribute to climate adaptation by delaying a lot of water that is being diverted. So there's a lot of fun in front of us in the green shift and in the green shift, and there's a lot of industrial change we're in now. It is almost that Norway does not have the labour force to do all the change that is now taking place. All of the digitization we're doing is absolutely necessary to keep track of the green transition and the green growth that is actually happening. And if we add the hydrogen potential that we're sitting on in the North, we're facing an amazing green industrial adventure.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e2002	We who are in this room have agreed in this debate that we need to cut more, but the fact is that right now in the Great Britain, the Green Party is the only party that has the measures that can cut what the United Nations says we need: halving emissions by 2030. We can even cut 60 pst., and we show it with a carbon and climate budget. Only we and the Workers Party have been able to deliver this together with our alternative state budget. I say this because climate policy does not compromise the policies of the individual parties in the Stortinget. Where climate policy is losing out again and again is in the priorities. That's because climate policy is zeroed out of other measures that the same parties also want. The same has happened in the government statement. That's what's so sad. I am sure that there have been at least two parties in those negotiations and have been very concerned about bringing in climate policy, but then there are other measures that are nullifying the impact of those measures. It's because there's been other big parties in those negotiations and wanted other victories. One of the examples is the CO 2 tax to be exempted from transport. The question that I still want to answer is how it will affect the ability of the government to achieve its own objective of halving emissions in transport, and how it will affect the impact of a CO 2 fund, no matter how it is managed, if you can't notice that impact. There may well be something there that I have not understood, and then I would like to have it clarified. How will a CO 2 tax to be zeroed into the pump price affect the muscles of that CO 2 fund? I also have the opportunity to give an explanation of vote. Unfortunately, I agree with the proposal for Decision X, which is about the CO 2 fund. I'm going to vote against that in the hall. For the Green Party, I would like to make it clear that it is very important that the Storting does not oblige the government to the model until you know what kind of agreement you get. I mean that because we can't risk the government giving it the power of business itself, which is going to roll this out in, for example. also impose the level of ambition for a charge. We need to be sure that the agreement we have with business, regardless of whether it is those who are going to manage that fund or not, must be an agreement that gets to the emissions cuts that actually match the ambitions of this room. It has also ‘flyed in’ two loose proposals, literally ‘flyed in’, they are about air transport. One is from Red to reduce the number of flights instead of Avinor to have the ambition to increase them. The Greens, of course, vote in favour of this. We are also voting in favour of the SV's proposal. Then I would encourage the government – all the time the increase in the CO 2 tax is a victory for the government parties – to be so honest and say that it will not apply in the transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e2041	The cities of Norway go ahead. Now the government must come and not remain a retard in environmental policy. We need courageous politicians who dare to challenge us and who create policies for the future – courageous politicians who choose smart solutions, build environmentally friendly, pollute less locally and contribute to less global emissions. Politicians in our cities are showing action and have put in place measures to improve the environment with public transport and local car-free areas. In today's Evening Post we can read that the air quality in Oslo has become much better in recent years. In 2015, 200,000 inhabitants in our capital were affected by dangerous air pollution. Now only 10,000 people are affected. It means something to people's quality of life. It's time for the right-wing government to get on the road. The fact that the government is so in the back and said no to prepare the climate budget for 2019 shows that the government's attempts to appear as drivers in the climate issue are only embarrassing – yes, some people might have just called the government the sideline. And the suspense that the government parties think we give a wrong impression of the climate situation is just going to feel bad. Right in the capital and government offices are following and not following in the time we live in. There is a big difference between the climate policy we conduct in the cities we run, and the climate policy Right led in Oslo for 18 years – even though the Right now from the pulpit today is trying to make it sound like something else. Until now, too few politicians have dared to go ahead and make brave choices for the future. The politicians who have taken bold steps have in common that they represent the big cities. Good examples are the rapporteurs in London and Paris, and not least the mayor of Oslo, Raymond Johansen. The big cities now look at Oslo and come here to learn. Barcelona has visited Oslo and is now going to copy the Oslo climate budget. The climate manager in New York was here just and wanted to learn how Oslo is setting climate requirements for both Oslo pension funds and emission-free construction sites. Is there any country coming to Norway to learn from the right-wing government? To move the flock, someone has to go ahead and show way. In our time, cities and, in fact, Oslo in particular are such guides.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e2054	I want to follow up several of the posts from the position, i.e. the government parties, which have pointed out that there is a lot we agree on. That's really nice to say, because that's right. Fortunately, there are some overall, long-term ambitions that we share. We're going to be happy about that, and we're also going to recognise the good work that's been done to get more of it into the Granavolden platform. I would like to say that what we are talking about today is a set of very specific proposals. I think we very much agree that to succeed in the long run we need to work globally, systematically, long-term, structured and inclusive. But then there are also some things that we know we can do now, because we also know that despite the gradual increase in climate ambitions in many countries and in international negotiations it goes too late, and we are far behind. We know that in terms of the most concrete objectives we have ever set, that is, the 2020 targets, we are already lagging behind, and it is almost unimaginable that we are able to achieve them. It is then important to set even more ambitious targets, but it is also necessary to ensure that these targets are achieved with entirely concrete measures. And where you know the answer, you can simply start – or as it says in the ad: ‘Just do it’. That's the point of these proposals. It's good and right that some of these things are working on in the long term, and you can recognize it more elsewhere. But we suggest adopting things that do not require more investigation, but where to start about that. About now, and that's why we're proposing it. Then I would like to add a comment to the discussion about the CO 2 fund, i.e. proposal No. 15 in the draft representative. It is in no way that we believe that it should not be negotiated, and it is of course that the government should negotiate with the NHO, with the actors in the business community, on the exact design. But there's a choice between two models, and what we're taking initiative in doing, is choosing one of the two. One model is that everything should be put through Enova, where action can be applied for. The second is the creation of a partnership with business actors, involving enthusiasm, commitment and ideas in this, and having a joint ownership of the management of it. It surprises me a little bit that not least a party like the Right has so little faith in the business's own ability to solve these challenges and believes that everything has to be governed by state grants. I must say I've been surprised at that. Finally, I have a challenge for the Minister for Climate and Environment. We agreed in 2008 that Norway would become climate-neutral by 2050, but that it would be reduced to 2030 if an international agreement was reached. It did so in Paris, and then it became a majority decision in Stortinget that Norway should be climate-neutral as early as 2030 – not as a closed system, but through the sum of measures in Norway and quota purchases. Is this still true?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e2070	The debate went somewhat as expected, without having received very many good answers to my invitation, so I thought I would continue where I left off, namely where someone thought that petroleum production in Norway is a climate change, while in fact it is in Europe and in the world a climate change condition. I said I was happy that every cubic centimeter of gas flowing from the future CO2 storage sites leads to lower CO2 emissions in the world. Is it really true that it is all the others who have misunderstood when the Green Party Party in Germany Bärbel Höhn, who until then probably had cult status at the Environmental Party of the Green Party, said that Germany wanted to buy Norwegian gas to meet its climate obligations, or when Europe's most politically correct head of state, Angela Merkel, says directly that they want to import gas for decades to replace something that has twice as much emissions, namely coal? Or is it that it hurts because they say at the same time that they want to expand their gas infrastructure? They're now in their gas start-up phase, while we're discussing shutting down industries like they were equal to the tobacco industry or the weapons industry. What happens if we shut down gas production again and end Norway's main industry? First, more than 200,000 people need to find something else to do. The second is that we miss billions of income, money that we spend both for school, for hospitals, and also, ironically enough, for climate action that is incredibly financed by what you yourself want to liquidate. Talk about giving rice to its own behind a completely new meaning. But that's not the worst, because it's not like the Germans are letting their newly built gas pipes go empty if we stop producing gas. They probably buy it just somewhere else, namely from Russia, and thus feed the Putin regime instead. I had hoped that the Greens would have taken a slightly more pragmatic stance on gas, as their brothers and sisters in Europe have taken, rather than an activistic policy that will cost billions and lead to greater global greenhouse gas emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e2085	There is something about the self-image of government representatives in this debate. It seems that these proposals have been promoted because we think the government statement is so ambitious – that that is why we have promoted them. It was said in the previous debate that you felt there were people living in your own world. If that's what self-image is, it really has to be what you do. I have hardly met anyone who believes that this government is too ambitious in climate policy. On the contrary, many people are screaming for more action. The environmental movement is not satisfied. Business is not satisfied. The social partners are not satisfied. At all, there are few who have praised the climate profile of this programme – apart from the government’s own representatives. Keep me safe well – it's very good. There is a lot that we all agree on, and then you have to get some investigations and assessments – and it's great to get it. And it says about some things that the Storting has already adopted. Espen Barth Eide took up climate neutrality. It says so in the government statement, but the Right and the Advance Party voted against it in the Stortinget. Then you can come here and say it's a victory. Well, it's adopted in the Storting versus the Right and the vote of the Advance Party. There's something about the arrogance of power when you think that everyone who doesn't agree with yourself has not understood anything, or that those who make suggestions, just do it because they're concerned with symbols. Let's be honest. We are not satisfied with the government's climate policy. The policy is not going well enough. We are not in the process of achieving our 2020 targets. On the contrary, we know that we are not going to reach them. The government has had to tail and go for years to get palm oil out of biofuels. We are not satisfied when two thirds of renewable energy is cut in developing countries. It's good they say they're going to fix it now, but there's no cheering mood when you're just going to fix the previous cut. Moreover, when cut into CO 2 capture and storage measures, there is no cry from the opposition. And as I said, the 2020 targets we're not close to reaching. They were adopted in 2012. It was an instruction to Erna Solberg, who has been Prime Minister since 2013. It is her and the government's sole responsibility that we do not reach them. By 2030, the government has made it easy for itself not to have national targets. I think it is significant that when Lars Haltbrecken asks a very specific question, the Council of State is unable to answer within one minute because there are so many reservations about what is Norway's climate goal for 2030. I hear some of the government's representatives say that they were actually going to pay tribute to the proposals, and that they think it's nice that there's a debate. Well, we're not looking to get honey. We're looking for actual action. That is why we are promoting them. That's why we're elected. And it is the representatives of the Right, the representatives of the Progressive Party and the representatives of the Left who have to explain why they vote against them and why they are politicians when they vote against every single proposal, including those for which they say they are in favour. More say, couldn't everyone just agree? Well, it would have been great if we all agreed. We have initiated a climate settlement. Last night, the majority rejected it. You didn't even want to talk to the opposition. The red-green government had climate policy in both periods. This government has so far taken no initiative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e2105	I have to say that I sometimes feel a little sorry for what might be found by environmental forces in this government when we hear the representative Gisle Meininger Saudland from the Progress Party highlight more use of fossil energy in response to the climate crisis. According to the Progress Party, the best climate action from Norway is the export of gas. Well, then probably the second best export of oil. And it was awfully stupid that we decided to put down our third best climate action – export of coal from Svalbard. But if we look at the statistics from the United Kingdom, which is used as an example of Norwegian gas exports being so good for the climate: what has happened in the United Kingdom in recent years? They've lost almost all of their coal power in the last two to three years. What happened to the gas consumption? Has it increased? No, the gas power has also been reduced by 25 pst, while the coal power consumption has decreased by 80 pst. What is the UK's explanation for the decline in coal power? Yes, there is an increase in the production of clean, renewable energy and energy efficiency. This is what has helped cut emissions and phase out coal power in the United Kingdom. We hear the government parties say that they are, or are going to implement, several of the proposals we have made – yes, many of the proposals we have made. But what are we reading in the letter from the Minister for Climate and Environment to the Committee? It says: explore the possibility, launch investigations, assess actions, and there is some clear rejection of our proposals. One proposal has actually entered the Granavolden platform, and at that point I will give the government credit for getting inspiration from our and the Workers' Party's proposals. It refers to the proposal to include mineral oil for construction drying in the ban on the use of mineral oil. We proposed that this should happen by 2020, from which the oil ban will otherwise apply. The Granavolden platform has 2022. Two years late – at least better than nothing.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e2115	I want to continue a bit where I left off in my previous post and also pick up the glove after the representative Une Bastholm. Well, once again, there's a lot of work being done here in the hall, which is kind of being compensated for by other things that are adopted here. I mentioned the Committee on Transport in relation to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection – it is ideal for the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and for all those who supply gas and build up on the Committee on Transport. I see this very closely in my committee, the Transport Committee. I have to mention a few examples. Railways and quadruple motorways compete very often on parallel routes. I've said this a hundred times, I think. We see that there are many people here who should have had a bad conscience – about all the big parties, unfortunately. We see that very often the motorway comes before the railway. The representatives of this committee, as I see above, will then have to thank their colleagues on the Transport Committee. We see that the basis for the railway is destroyed by a four-field motorway – the entire traffic base is often destroyed. We now see it with the Ringerix track – at best it comes at the same time. In the case of Trøndelag, they wish locally both in the county municipality and in Trondheim that the railway to Steinkjer should come before the E6. I don't see any sign of it from the government. It's incredibly important to see this in context. Transport accounts for about one third of all greenhouse gas emissions – we know this, it is becoming child learning. We have to take some grips, so we see this in context. That's why I think it's sad that we don't see anyone from the transport committee here, and that's why I'm here and have posts with Lars Haltbrecken and his committee. I want to demand this, and I see it in so many areas. I think I've counted it 107 times: ferry-free E39 in the West. It has to be seen as an climate project, one has to think through it in the context of climate change. Don't you? We're talking about 190 billion. kr to some incredible fjord crossings. Environmentally, I don't think it's a disaster, I don't want to mention the use of money. This has to be seen in context. One third of our greenhouse gas emissions come from transport. We have to talk better – I have to say – the different committees here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e2126	Finally, yes, good planning is required, but I do not agree that Norway is far behind in the transport sector. If it is in one area where Norway is far ahead, it is the transport sector. There we do things that no one else is close to, in order to get a big technology shift both in passenger transport, heavy transport and in shipping. That's where the biggest emission cut comes from. Then you have to have climate-friendly cities. It was also up here earlier, and that's something I've been working with locally in Oslo for 15 years, with public transport and the measures that are there, and still do. The fact that we have emissions in cities is because we have a unique cooperation in Norway between the state and the big cities of public transport, about the investment we have in electric cars, which also blows up emissions and better air in cities, and because we have a ban on oil fires. There are many things that draw in the same direction. So I'll answer some questions. One is from the representative, Barth Eide, on proposals for climate neutrality. Yeah, that's right, it's on the platform. But we have our own definition of climate neutrality on the part of Stortinget. And considering Katowice – when you didn't put in place mechanisms like market mechanisms in the agreement, this is something we have to work on in the future, how we're going to implement that decision. But it has to be realized, and that's what we're working for. The representative Bastholm also picked up and problemated it with the CO 2 fund and the CO 2 tax. Yes, this is one of the things that makes us think that it should also be above the state budget, the effort we are going to have towards heavy transport, or for business. There's no doubt that here business is going to come out as winners. We've already spent 444 million. kr for this work. That's it. What it's about is how we're going to organise it, and whether we come to an agreement on it. But the effort is there, and the results must be there. We're going to achieve the 50 pst reduction goal. in the years ahead. Then there was also a question about the circular economy and the plan that was dealt with in Stortinget in ours. We're going to present a new one in 2020. The reason why I do that is, of course, that the previous one that the Stortinget was treated was presented before I became the Council of State. And then we have to think about it again. Finally, I think it has been a good debate. It's a strong will, there's no doubt about it, but it requires systematics and planning, because there's no proposal that in itself is big enough. That's the sum of the proposals that bring down the emissions. I think we're going to have a good cooperation on that in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e2147	The representative of Une Bastholm has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e2152	I see that the government parties use the same argument as the oil lobby. That's why it's so nice to clarify that the only good thing about it is that when you've started talking about gas and stopped talking about oil, at least you don't hear that Norwegian oil and gas are going to save poor children in Africa because we're going to give them energy. That's the only positive. We have to start being honest. It is no longer 200,000 who work in the oil industry, as the representative Meininger Saudland said. That was before we had the oil price drop in 2014 and 2015. So far back we have to because it was over 200,000 who worked in the sector. In 2015, there were 195 000, in 2017 170 200, and it includes those who work in the supplier and subcontracting industry. So there's not 200,000 working in the oil industry. We have to stop saying that in this room, because these are real people who are going to have a real job to do, and if we're going to have a realistic policy for that employment to work forward, if we're going to have an industrial policy that actually turns Norway in the green direction, we need realistic expectations of what that work entails.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e2157	I will first be allowed to stress the importance of what the representative of Bastholm just said. The worst thing to do is to create a notion that this challenge is not there, because at least you'll wake up with the beard in the mailbox. That's why it's good to think creatively, systematically and focused on how not at least the many very skilled people who work in the oil and gas sector should be with us further, both within the part of the sector that will adapt to the green shift, and what they're going to do. I wanted to follow up on Elvesuen and thank you for confirming that what we are reading on the Granavolden platform is the same as the decision the Stortinget made against the Right and the Advance Party votes in 2016. It's important, and then I want to reflect on it. The non-quota sector is approx. Half of the economy, and then we're going to cut 45 pst. Of the half of the economy, which after free billing is 22 and some percent of the entire economy -- I'm painting with a little bit of a broad brush here. When we have a goal of going down to zero, that means we're going all the way down to zero in the whole economy through the sum of measures in Norway and quota purchases. There'll be a lot of quota purchases. It is important that we take on board that it is an important and proper ambition, but there is no reasonable ambition, and we must not forget – and ignore – when we focus on whether to have 40 pst. or 45 pst., and whether everything is to be taken home or mostly at home, that it is an even greater challenge to get the whole economy to go to zero already in 2030, which is a very radical ambition that was adopted a long time ago, against the voices of those who sit in the front seat here in the middle of the hall, when they are present. I think it is important that the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment confirmed, and then we have to count on measures there. It, in my view, underlines the importance of having both very clear and clear strategies that are global, inclusive and systematic, and also that we start where we can. The most important thing we say with our proposals is that where we already know the answer, there's nothing to wait for. The investigation's over, let's go! And then you can figure out where it should still be investigated. I would also like to thank you for a good debate and stress that I would rather live in a country where you compete for the most climate friendly than in a country where you compete for the least climate friendly, because we have some of them in the world as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e2168	It is a subtle debate when we can stand here and discuss whether the government has an ambitious climate policy or not. We are also fighting to be the best at action. We have an ambitious climate policy. I think that's what people see and mark. We have a Paris agreement that has set major targets for both the quota and non-quota sectors. It can always be a debate and play with numbers about whether to cut 40 pst. or 45 pst. We need to balance the whole of what's about cutting and shifting, what's about the impact on business and jobs. There are a lot of suggestions that have been submitted. What has been said from this pulpit is that most have either been adopted, implemented or under investigation. That is the way that many have also called for, that those affected by the decisions taken in this Chamber should know in advance about them – that we are discussing them, have them consulted, so that they have confidence in the decisions taken here. Then I'm a little fascinated by what's being said about the importance of international agreements. Everyone talks about international agreements and says that they are of crucial importance, and then in the next sentence, it is very important to ensure that all cuts are taken in Norway – all cuts are to be taken domestically. My question to the Committee may quickly be: why should we have an international agreement on the non-quota sector if we do not want to cooperate with others on the cuts? Then we can put the cuts to 45 pst, 55 pst, 65 pst and take them. But that's exactly what is happening with international agreements, that we can take the most cost-effective cuts and get the most back. I thought climate was a global problem. The Greens are talking about honesty. I have called for honesty from the Green Party in many discussions, especially as regards the consequences of their policies for the society we have today. This is about the number of workers in this sector being doubted. When Aibel sent out permit alerts at Karmøy last, the first man who closed the chopper was the pizza baker on the other side of the street. I do not know if the Greens consider it to be one of the subcontractors of the oil industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e2181	It's approaching the end of an important and interesting discussion. There are many measures contained in this proposal for a representative – 37 measures – and if the government is doing everything, it is very good to deliver. When you read the text in the document, it is not exactly that you are convinced that it will be delivered in a short time, and that the Council of State will be happy to come here and tell you about everything he has delivered on the 37 measures. It's absolutely vital that the opposition stay on and push it on. It's interesting to note the discussion about CO2 funds. The government is quite clear that it is not interested in listening to business and 24 other organisations. The council was just up in the pulpit and said it was for a CO 2 fund, but it goes right back to the fact that it is Enova who is going to deliver it. It's not a CO2 fund you get in Enova. It is an instrument for setting out annual budgets so that actors can apply for money to make different reductions. It won't commit anything, it will only be an opportunity. But here the business community is saying that we want to commit, we want an environmental agreement that commits us, and that is so concrete that we know what to do with, and we have to be able to take responsibility for it ourselves. Emissions in the transport sector shall be halved within 10 years. How can this be done when no offensive measures are put in place? We need to deliver the measures, and when we know that the NOx fund that was established in the past has been a success – the evaluation shows that it has given the right results that it would give in advance – it is difficult to understand. So it's fine if the Council of State has the opportunity to come up again in this debate just to clarify: when he talked about CO 2 funds, did he talk about a private rigged CO 2 fund for which business itself is responsible, or is it equal to Enova? This is an important clarification, because it is no good going to negotiations if you negotiate CO 2 funds and already know that Enova will be responsible for this. Then there is no negotiating situation, because then you talk about two different things.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e2208	It was the representative Nävra who was up here and caused me to take the floor. He clearly has a real Agg to the Free E39 and a desire to stop development. That's exactly what SV did when they were opposed to the Triangle Connection in its time. Now it is such that no one, even SV, will have to go back in that connection. If we are to have a competitive business, we must provide a good infrastructure. I would like to encourage the representative to work for electrification of the transport sector rather than piercing chains in the wheels of the business community.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e2213	To the representative Karin Andersen of SV: We fully agree that action is needed and that it is urgent. That's why we're working on a number of these proposals that the Workers' Party and SV have now promoted, after the government started working with them. We need common solutions, so let's not have unnecessary polarization, but let's apply all the good forces. So to the Aukrust representative, I can promise the Aukrust representative and others in the Workers' Party and other opposition parties that I will never misjudge them because I think it helps me in a political debate. I know that the Aukrust representative and all the other representatives in the Workers' Party have a genuine climate exposure and that they are highly competent in the climate. It's a very good fraction. I really think there are good fractions from all the parties in this committee. So Aukrust doesn't believe, Haltbreken etc. that we have a climate exposure, and we just have to find some way to live with it. It's gonna be okay. But the representatives of the Workers' Party know what it's like, because there are quite a few who doubt their climate exposure. There are two parties called grey in Norway, and it's the Workers' Party and the Right. I disagree with that, but that's what life is -- we just have to find a way to live with it. Then we're going to show that we have that climate exposure, and that we have the competence, by implementing good climate action. As I said, we are already in the process of doing that. Then I think it's also wiser to make suggestions for new things instead of, to put it correctly, sort out many suggestions that we're already making. The representative Arne Nävra expresses a frustration that I think very many have, and that concerns the cooperation between the committees. If there is one area where it is important, it is in the climate field. Here I think we have a lot to pick up. I also believe that, when we are going to go through the sector sector with the sectoral ambitions and find measures, it may make sense to work widely across the committees as well. So Barth Eide says that his intention is not to lock the government into one model of CO2 funds. That's good. It is a pity that his proposal does, but if he does not believe it, he can vote with the government parties and the Greens for his own proposal. We will have a broad debate on climate in the future, and we will have many issues in this area in the future too – and many proposals in the future. That's good, and then I hope that there are really new proposals that we can debate, and where we can actually try to work together instead of creating unnecessary polarization.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e2226	The representative Lars Haltbrecken has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e2231	Once again, we hear that the proposals we have made are a copy that things are already going on. Well, if it had been, we would have asked the government to investigate these proposals, because that's what the government is going to do, and that's what they're saying in their answer: you're going to figure out. We have six, seven, eight kilos of public investigations into possible climate action in Norway since 1990. What is needed now is we are launching these measures. I just want to give a little visit to the climate and environment minister, because he's very much in order to get climate-friendly cities. We have put forward a proposal that several of the smaller cities should be included in the urban growth agreements, but that is both the Left and the other government parties against today. What makes the Left vote against it? Is it a Christian People's Party? Nope. Is that right? No, they've fixed this. Is that the Progress Party? Yes, perhaps it is the Progress Party that governs climate policy, just as they govern oil policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e2239	The representative Ketil Kjeseth has spoken the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e2244	For the debate on CO 2 funds: there are two good models. Business is used to competing, so you have a model with a CO 2 fund, as NHO and ZERO suggest, and an Enova model, is a very good starting point. There must be negotiations now, in the final phase, on which model is best. And it's absolutely right, as Une Bastholm from MDG says, it has to work. We're going to cut 50 pst. in the transport sector by 2030. We are absolutely sure that the model we are going to introduce must work. I am very pleased that the representatives Espen Barth Eide from the Workers' Party and Stefan Heggelund from the Right are two colorful people in the two grey parties. They really represent the progress made in this, sit in the committee and contribute to the debate. It is also colorful that the Progress Party is offensive in this debate. We don't want to use the gas for as long as they want, but taking it up as fast as possible can be pretty smart, when Germany is about to wind up its coal plants. There has to be something else in there. Poland and Denmark shall build gas pipelines. It shall enter Norwegian gas there. We can take advantage of it in the transition right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e2257	I'm actually taking the word because I got a direct question about CO2 funds. Now the representative, Mr. Kjeseth, answered that question. The NHO has set up its model, we have ours. Now we have to have negotiations and see if we can agree. But in any case, there will be efforts against heavy transport and commercial transport in the years ahead because we're going down by 50 pst, and we need to have a common interest in achieving that. Otherwise, I believe that what is most important from the 1.5 degree report, which we also have to take on board, is two messages: one is the seriousness of the situation and the speed with which the changes must come. The second is that to achieve the goal of keeping the world warmed up below 1.5 degrees it has to move forward. It requires innovation, it requires innovation, it requires business development, it requires a lot of work to have the opportunity to achieve its objectives. This isn't about standing still, but about going forward at a pace the world hasn't seen before. Then it is to replace coal as quickly as possible, remove fossil fuels at all stages as quickly as possible, conversion of the industry. We have a large instrument in Norway, with the Environmental Technology Scheme, research, Enova. We must build under and support under climate-friendly cities and communities. While we do that, we need to develop a circular economy too much better to conserve the resources we have. We need to develop carbon capture and storage. And then we must not forget the last, which is also an important climate action: taking care of nature. This applies internationally through rainforest management and other, but also in Norway. That's 30 pst. from the solution to 2030.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e2267	Representative Åsmund Aukrust has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e2272	Stefan Heggelund started his post by saying that he would never misjudge me, and then he did it in the next sentence. He said that I have said that the Right does not have a climate exposure, or that I think the representative does not have it. I didn't say that. On the contrary, I said in my post that I think they have a very large climate exposure. I think Ola Elvestuen wakes up every morning and thinks, What am I going to do about the climate today? The problem is that it doesn't last, it's not good enough. That is why we have this debate. So it's said that really you all agree with these questions. Well, then you could have voted in favour. It is not true that the government is doing all that is in these proposals, and that is also why we are voting against them. Finally, I also hope that there will be many things. I hope there are many things coming from the government, because there I have to admit that it has been a little daunted in the last period. So I'd say that if there's an area I really hope with all my heart that the government will succeed, it's in climate policy, because the future of the planet is, after all, more important than party politics. So I really hope it succeeds, and the Workers' Party is ready to discuss new climate settlements in Stortinget, but... [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e2281	Talida's out. The representative Espen Barth Eide has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e2288	I want to start by saying that I believe that all the members of this committee are colorful, and well, because we need ideas and creativity from all sides. But the Halleland representative asked a question that deserves an answer, because there's no bad question why we don't have a kind of quota system in the non-quota sector. The whole logic of ours is that we've been very happy – and happy – with the quota system, which has a lot to do, especially when it works. Then we agreed on what kind of sectors are suitable for going into what we called the quota sector: international air transport, oil and gas, heavy industry, etc. And then there were other things, like local garbage incineration, agriculture, local transport and other types of industry, that fit to do at home. What we've been worried about is that we've been hoping so easily for a system where we're going to trade allowances even in the non-quota sector, because it really doesn't have any clear and clear national targets anywhere. Everything can be traded, and it's not always so clever, I mean. That's why I think there's a lot of good arguments for cooperating on solutions, technology and experience, but... [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e2297	Talida's out. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e2318	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will suggest that there are no replications and that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e2327	I want to join what was said about it being a colorful committee. It was in the previous debate, and I could imagine continuing the discussion with Espen, but we can do that in the chamber. I would like to thank the Committee for the work it has done on this matter. It should be noted that the proposal affects far beyond the remit of the Committee on Energy and the Environment. The case has therefore also been transferred to both the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Climate and Environment. The proposers ask the government to take the initiative of a separate CO2 fund for an oil-free production. The majority of the Committee supports the intention of the proposal, which is to contribute to the reduction of emissions from Norwegian cap, but the establishment of a CO2 fund for the petroleum industry involves circumvention of the fiscal framework and will thus require a legislative change. The country's net cash flow from the petroleum activity shall be unabated to the State pension fund abroad. It is worth noting that the petroleum sector is subject to the quota sector. More than 90 pst. thus, the greenhouse gas emissions from the extraction on the cap face a price of emissions through the allowance price. In addition, there is a separate CO2 charge for the emissions resulting from the combustion of natural gas. The petroleum sector is one of the few sectors which, in addition to the quota obligation, have a CO2 tax – a significantly higher burden than other activities in Norway have, and significantly greater than for petroleum activities in all other countries. A wide range of activities are being undertaken to contribute to energy efficiency improvement and to reduce greenhouse gas emissions also on Norwegian soil. The proposal violates the State Pension Fund Act and, in view of this, the majority of the Committee recommends that the proposal not be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e2340	Proposals dealing with measures to reduce CO2 emissions are always interesting, because it is one of our biggest problems in reducing emissions and achieving the climate targets we have set ourselves. Measures that can contribute to a zero-emission oil production are, of course, something that we all welcome. This proposal, to establish a CO2 non-emission oil production fund, has been mainly promoted in order to find a solution to Equinor’s plans to investigate the use of liquid sea wind to reduce emissions from production on Snorre and Gullfaks. As has been pointed out in the case, it will be the first time an oil field is supplied with power from liquid sea wind. As seen, Equinor’s inexorably exciting plans also demonstrate its commitment to renewable energy and environmentally friendly solutions. Most of us are probably, more or less, mutually agreed on the importance of such a project, and that there is something we have to see coming. We believe that it is precisely these types of solutions that will contribute to lower emissions and a better climate. The proposers point out that Enova is barely able to support this measure without being at the expense of other continental climate action. It is also said that this fund should take over as support for oil industry emission reductions and that Enova should separate itself from that objective. We don't think that's a good idea, because the whole idea of adding everything to Enova is that they should take full-scale assessments and select projects that are deemed to have the potential for emission reductions that benefit the entire globe. If you split the responsibilities here, it is not certain that overall you get the most effective measures with the money that is available. These are measures that Enova can promise if they realise that this contributes to emission reductions and that they can continue globally. The economic muscles are there, and in addition, this government has provided solid increases to Enova over the last few years. I just remember that promised it was when Hydro on Karmøy got 1.55 billion. kr to his pilot in 2015. Enova is an important tool for us to achieve the climate goals, and we must continue to develop this company further. What of course also makes us unable to support the proposal is that it violates the State pension fund law and will require a change in it, which in turn means that we will reduce the revenue of the fund, which is intended for future budgets and future generations. We're pushing the bill over to our children and our descendants. That is why we cannot support this proposal for a representative either.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e2353	The centre party often pulls out the NOx fund as very successful. We also do that when we argue about a CO2 fund for business transport, as we did earlier today. On the other hand, an oil sector CO2 fund will differ significantly from both of these and is not directly comparable, either as an industry or as a model. One of the obstacles to such a fund, as previously stated, is that it will require changes to the State pension fund law, require a conversion of the system for the payment of CO2 tax and thus have a direct impact on the transfer to and return of the State pension fund abroad. Given these issues, we believe that the proposal we are dealing with today is too specifically designed. The proposal does not provide for the possibility to explore other and different models and measures for emissions reductions on the base. This, along with a closer assessment of the consequences of these, might provide a better starting point. There are doubts from the proposers as to whether Enova can bear the economic need for support triggered by Equinor's marine wind project on Snorre and Gullfaks. For us, it is not known that Equinor or Enova have a desire to lift the project out of Enova on the basis of the economy. The centre party can see nothing but that the project will fit well into the purpose of the energy fund, and will therefore point out that we actually have a system that is already in place for this type of project. In comparison, both the NOx fund and the CO2 fund are models closely linked to the industries themselves, and the industries themselves see the importance of the solutions. No equivalent request has been raised from the petroleum industry. On the other hand, we see that Equinor, among other things, points to sea wind as a very timely solution. Finally, let me say that it is important that the petroleum industry should also take part in its Norwegian climate commitments. It has to be very clear. But we do that through the quota system and the CO2 tax. In our view, a proposal such as this, where an unspecified increase in the CO2 tax is adopted in isolation, is not in line with the political point of view, where the quota price and CO2 tax have been seen in the context.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e2366	Norway has enormous opportunities to invest in offshore wind power. Therefore, it was very gratifying when Equinor announced last year that they would bet on sea wind to reduce the emissions from oil production on Snorre and Gullfaks. Cut in Norwegian cap emissions is crucial if Norway is to achieve its climate targets. In addition, this contributes to the technological and commercial development of liquid sea winds. Equinor has estimated that the project will cost 5 billion. kr, and that they need State aid of SEK 2,5 billion. kr. It's this money that they're asking Enova to set up. But Enova is an important tool in the climate struggle, and we're afraid that spending 2.5 billion dollars. kr from Enova for this project will go beyond Enova’s ability to support industry and people most in cutting their energy consumption and their emissions of greenhouse gases. In 2017, Enova granted a total of 2.3 billion. kr to more than 900 energy and climate projects in Norwegian business and public sector and to more than 8 000 energy measures in Norwegian homes. What if this money disappeared because you used it for Equinor's project instead? That is why we have proposed a different model, according to the model of the NOx fund. The NOx Fund has, as several speakers have pointed out, been a major success and has helped Norway to cut its emissions of acidifying gases. We are proposing an increase in the CO2 tax for the oil industry. It's this increase that's going to go into the new fund. Therefore, this will not impair the future return of the petroleum fund. The companies involved shall be able to apply for funding from the Fund in order to implement measures such as cutting their greenhouse gas emissions. The requirements of the Fund must be based on annual reductions in tonnes of CO2 from the companies involved. If Norway is to achieve climate targets, emissions from today’s oil production must also be cut. Through this proposal, we have shown how this can be done. It's just so bad it doesn't get a majority here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e2377	Will the representative Haltbrecken address the proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e2382	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e2387	The representative Lars Haltbrecken has then taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e2392	If not, I could take up the proposal, because the Greens are also behind it. We do that because there's a lot of talk about the green shift, but if we're going to succeed, we're going to have to convert our mainland economy so that in the next few years it'll be zero-emission or almost zero-emission. That's why Enova has now become our most important tool to achieve this. Today approximately 2.3 billion are transferred. kr annually to Enova to support more than 900 energy and climate projects in Norway. This corresponds to Equinor’s financing needs for their planned liquid sea wind farm. Let it be clear: the Greens are very positive in Equinor’s efforts to develop liquid sea winds and that the state must contribute to the promise to make sea winds competitive. Although liquid sea wind can draw on experience in Europe with bottom-water wind, state development support for the successful phase-in of a new technology such as floating sea wind farms is still necessary. What the Greens are sceptical about is that Equinor is going to seize so much resources at Enova that it's going to hamper the mainland's transition. Oil industry projects are often large. They therefore contribute to large emissions reductions, while being costly. They will therefore easily be able to compete for a large proportion of Enova’s available resources. The Government and the majority of that Committee shall reject the proposal. It is argued that such a fund will not contribute to a cost-effective reduction of emissions, that it will require a legislative change, for the CO 2 tax from the base to go directly to the oil fund and not to a separate fund. It is claimed that Enova has so much resources that it is going to convert both the oil industry and the mainland industry. To that I can only point out that if we were to base the cost-effectiveness of Norway's climate policy, we would not have had today's electric revolution in Norway, we would not have put the first river ferries on the water, and we would probably not have Enova either. The need for legislative changes has never previously stopped a good proposal, if the Storting has wanted it. The government itself has said that they want to consider using the oil fund to finance the replacement of the frigate that sank, and for example. new government quarter – a way that today would be completely contrary to the framework for the use of the oil fund. So I still take note that the government is open to be flexible in understanding how we are going to use the oil fund for the purchase of frigates, but it is totally unthinkable to make changes in the interpretation of proposals related to climate action. And I doubt that large offshore projects in the many billions class will not affect Enova's ability to bet on climate action on the mainland. But if the government can confirm that in the future they will make sure that it doesn't happen, nothing will make me happier.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e2408	There is an important debate on the part of the proposers. Climate challenges are global and need to be addressed globally. This means that each country is obliged to contribute. We're going to do that, and we're going to cut emissions at home. The proposal involves an unspecified increase in the CO 2 tax. This is broken by the policy approach, where, for the petroleum sector, quota prices and charges have been seen in the context both in order to ensure a cost-effective climate policy and to provide a predictable framework for industry. Cost-effectiveness is important. Climate challenges are so great that we need to use resources properly, so that we get as much emission savings as possible per capita we spend on action. An increased charge will not contribute to a more effective fulfilment of Norwegian climate obligations. Representatives propose that the increase in the levy be earmarked for a CO 2 fund, unlike the current scheme, where all the country’s revenues from the petroleum activity, including the levy, are transferred to the pension fund in its entirety. This would be contrary to the State pension fund law. Furthermore, as a result of the tax system, the State will finance an estimated 84 pst. of the income of the fund by means of a reduction in the transfer to the State pension fund abroad. The return on the pension fund will then be reduced in the future. As a result, most of this bill is transferred to future budgets and generations. Finally, I would like to point out that we have established good public instruments that support all phases of the innovation chain for marine wind and other new technologies. The creation of a petroleum sector fund, as proposed here, would involve the withdrawal of Enova from this sector. The government will continue Enova’s ability to support low-emission technology conversion in all sectors.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e2426	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e2438	Then we're ready to go to voting. Case No. 1 was completed before today, and Case No. 2 was interpellation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e2449	During the debate, Mr Nordlund presented a proposal on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to carry out a survey of old waste landfills in Norway, with an updated assessment of health risks, and to assess the need for new national recommendations and measures.’ Alternatively, this proposal and the recommendation of the Committee shall be rejected. The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal. The Committee had recommended that the Storting should do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e2479	A total of three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Åsmund Aukrust on behalf of the Labour Party and the Centre Party proposed no. 2 and 3, from Sandra Borch on behalf of the Centre Party Proposal No. 2 and 3 from the Center Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: «The government is asked to submit proposals for a change in the compensation provision in Section 19 of the Nature Diversity Act, which guarantees owners of breeding areas for predators full compensation for grazing and loss of feeding grounds if livestock husbandry has to be reported, or by imposing comprehensive preventive measures. The proposal must ensure the right of the trader to choose between full compensation for economic losses in the event of the cessation of animal husbandry or of additional economic burdens in the case of continued animal husbandry.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for a regulation on compensation when domestic animals are killed or injured by predatory game to be amended in accordance with the guidelines provided for the settlement of claims in 2017 for Oslo, Akershus and Oppland.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e2510	Proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government asks the Government to ensure that Section 19 of the Nature Diversity Act, which states that the State is to provide full compensation for losses and consequential costs when domestic animals and domestic animals are damaged or killed by wild game. It is necessary to ensure that practices relating to the shortening of compensation cease when predatory game appears to be the sole real cause of injury.» Red is in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e2534	The centre party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e2550	A total of three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Åsmund Aukrust on behalf of the Labour Party and the Centre Party proposed no. 2 and 3, from Sandra Borch on behalf of the Centre Party In the course of the debate, proposal No. 1 converted into a transmission proposal. The suggestion sounds in changed form: ‘The Government is advised not to adopt the current breeding area for bear [[cf. Roof-wild agreement pt. 2.2.14]] The President proposes that this proposal be sent to the Government without any justification of the facts. - It's a note. The Committee had recommended that the Storting should do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e2578	Alternatively, between the recommendation of the Committee and the proposal No. 2 and 3 from the Center Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘In grazing priority areas, all available pesticides must be used: [[(see section 4.4). The Parties agree to cooperate in the implementation of this Agreement, in ……]] Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘A new bear stocking system is established that is more comprehensive and effective than the current system.’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e2604	In the course of the debate, Sandra Borch has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘1. Artificial lighting and electronic monitoring are made permanent tools by any attack on you. 2nd@item: inlistbox Snowmobiles are permitted to be used for the inspection of bows and for the transport of baits and bows and for the transport of personnel and hunters by attack. 3rd@item: inlistbox The use of the torch/headlamp is permitted in the case of track hunting on the torsch. 4th@item: inlistbox Funding is made available for an extended monitoring of areas during the calving period for tamrein. 5th@item: inlistbox The licensing period for yews is extended to start on August 20th. 6th@item: inlistbox It is permitted to loose, on a driven neck dog by the licensing of yours.’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e2636	The centre party has notified subsidized advice.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e2650	A total of 28 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Åsmund Aukrust on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposed no. 2–16, by Åsmund Aukrust on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Environment Party Dei Green proposed no. 17-19, by Sandra Borch on behalf of the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment proposed no. 20–26, by Lars Haltbrecken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment proposal No 27, from the Bears of the Moxnes on behalf of the Red proposal No 28, from Lars Haltbrecken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 27, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: «The government asks the Government to change Avinor's target of 4 pst. annual traffic increase to 4 pst. Annual traffic decline.» Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e2686	Proposal No. 28, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the introduction of an air-conditioning declaration that tells of the flight’s greenhouse gas footprint in the purchase of air tickets and returns to the Stortinget by 2020 at the latest.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e2703	Proposal No. 20 and 23, from the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment. Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Directorate-General for the Environment to modify the emission permit to Hammerfest LNG, replacing the gas power plant with power from the network, and to entrust Statnet with the task of strengthening the power infrastructure to Melkoya’. Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that all fuel cell cars are exempted from payment for bombs, ferries and parking until 2025.’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e2725	Proposal No. 21, 22 and 24–26, from the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment. Proposal No. 21 sounds: «The Government requests the use of at least 50 pst. hydrogen in the oil industry's supply tray. A stepping-up plan shall be established to achieve the target and the first hydrogen-powered ship in the supply tray shall be required to be put into service by 2022 at the latest.» Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that electric goods vehicles are exempted from payment for bombs, ferries and parking until 2025.’ Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The Government requests the safe use of hydrogen on holiday offers on national road ferries operating in Bodø-Værøy-Røst-Moskenes’. Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The Government is requesting a curtailment fee for air traffic at the four largest airports in Norway.’ Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to return to Stortinget with a bill prohibiting the destruction of ants.’ Red has already given its support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e2765	Proposal No. 17-19, from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment. Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to stop the planning of a third runway on the Gardermoen’.» Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a levy on fossil plastic packaging, but with the possibility of negotiating a binding industry agreement for emission reduction with the authorities.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government is asked to propose requirements or environmental weights for recycled and fossil-free material use for all public acquisitions where possible.’ [[plastics and]] Red has already given its support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e2795	Proposal No. 2–16, from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Environment Party of the Green Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to draw up sectoral action plans with the emission budget to reduce emissions by 2030.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the ban on fossil gas for the heating of buildings will apply from 2020.’;» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government requests the inclusion of indoor building heat during the construction phase, including concrete and façade drying, as part of the ban on fossil heating from 2020.’;» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘During 2019, the Government requests a ban on both fossil oil and gas in district heating plants from no later than 1 January 2020.’; Proposal No. 6 sounds: «The government is asked to amend the public procurement legislation in order to require zero-emission vehicles and machinery, where technically possible, in all construction projects which are published in public tenders. Where this is not possible, sustainable renewable energy shall be required.’;» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Directorate-General for the Environment to assess changes in the emissions permit to the Kårstø terminal – with a view to electrifying the terminal with power from the network – and to present a separate case to the Stortinget in this respect.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: «The Government is asked to draw up a regulation warning of a ban on the use of fossil oil for heating purposes in industry from 2023 at the latest. The regulation must be submitted by the government during the ageing period 2017-2021.» Proposal No. 9 sounds: «The Government requests the introduction of CO 2 free cement and concrete requirements in public tenders from 2025.» Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking for permits for new farms to require zero greenhouse gas emissions or the use of renewable sustainable fuels for the installation and operating vessel of those plants by 2020.’;» Proposal No. 11 sounds: «The government is asked to ensure that the State contributes up to 70 pst. the financing of large collective investment against the commitment of cities to measures to limit car traffic through urban growth agreements.’;» Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asking for speeding up efforts to extend the offer of urban growth agreements to several cities, in line with the recommendations of the trade unions.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asking that the work on urban growth agreements should also support the objectives of fossil-free public transport and zero-emission targets from the buses.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: «The government is asked to follow the decision of the Storting to draw up requirements under the Public Acquisitions Act that all new ferries and scheduled vessels use low or zero-emission technologies when the situation indicates that this is possible.» Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asked to consider joining France’s ‘4 per 1000 initiative’ and to return to the matter in the proposal for a revised national budget for 2019 as part of the process of increasing carbon bonds in soil.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to conclude negotiations on an agreement on climate change as proposed by the agricultural organisations and, in particular, to consider the expeditious extension of the oil firing ban to agricultural buildings.’ Red has already given its support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e2889	Proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a review of the port and maritime transport charging regime, in order to stimulate the transfer of goods from road to sea.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e3024	It's going to be over X first. Right, the Progress Party, the Left, the Christian People's Party and the Green Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e3038	The recommendation from the Committee was therefore adopted. The president's recording that more people are wrong. We vote over the X again. Right, the Progress Party, the Left, the Christian People's Party and the Green Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e3054	There is a vote over I to IX and XI to XX. Right, the Progress Party, the Left, the Christian People's Party and the Green Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e3072	During the debate, Lars Haltbrecken has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to take the initiative to establish a CO 2 fund for oil and gas-free production using the NO x fund model. The CO 2 fund is financed by an increase in the CO 2 charge for the offshore industry.» Alternatively, this proposal and the recommendation of the Committee shall be rejected. Red is in favour of the proposal. The Committee had recommended that the Storting should do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-31.ana.ud181e3141	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
