ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e44	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the Storting should depart from the provision of the first paragraph of Section 59 of the Rules of Procedure and vote after that date. 1-3 and Case No. 5 has been completed. No objection has been raised against the President's proposal. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e64	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, three rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e73	I want to start by thanking the Committee for good cooperation. Full-time and part-time life is a recurring theme in the societal debate, and that is important. In parts of the world of work, part-time jobs are more common than full-time jobs, and in some industries, part-time workers are particularly high. This applies in particular to the trade in goods, hotels and restaurants, education and health and care sectors. Fixed, entire jobs give the employee a living and security in everyday life. In 2012, the Equality Committee showed that there is a clear link between part-time work and length of education, and that this relationship is much stronger for women than for men. One sees in practice that small jobs can have a negative impact on quality of service when they are large. The Committee supports the employee and employer associations working for a better full-time culture, for example: through the new framework agreement of the Spekter and Nursing Association and the agreement between the KS, the Trade Union, Delta and the Nursing Association on the major full-time elections 2018. We in the Committee therefore agree that we want a high proportion of full time, but we do not agree on reality description and instruments. A majority is in favour of the non-adoption of the proposal, and I would like to make a further presentation to this majority. It's already working well for a full-time culture. Rules on the right of part-time employees to increase their position rather than new employment were introduced into the Working Environment Act in 2005. Several measures were taken in 2014 to reduce involuntary part-time work. One measure involves an annual discussion by the employer of the need for part-time jobs with the trustees and monitoring compliance by the Labour Inspectorate. The second measure is the right of part-time employees to work corresponding to the actual working hours. A simpler dispute resolution has also been introduced. Overall, this means that the legal status of part-time employees is both clarified and strengthened. It is gratifying that the proportion of part-time employees has fallen in almost all age groups in the last 15 years. The exemption is part-time among the youngest employees. It is also gratifying that the decline and shift towards more full-time work is particularly high among women aged 25–54 years. In the healthcare sector, in particular, part-time use has been reduced. Strengthening a full-time culture is a prerequisite for improving the quality of healthcare, increasing patient safety and improving patient follow-up both in hospitals and in municipal health and care services. The use of part-time for permanent hospital staff was reduced in all health regions between 2013 and 2018. The majority of employees work full-time, and most people who work part-time do so because they want to. But the full-time/part-time problem is complex. Many part-time jobs arise from the rights of employees. Right to a reduced position for a defined period of time, right to exemption from e.g. night work, and collective agreements with greater limitations in weekend work are some examples of this. The provision of the Labour Environment Act to ensure that part-time employees have a greater position in the situations in which the employer has a labour force need was evaluated in a Fafo report in 2011. The report shows that the provision appropriately balances the consideration of the employer and employee. The same report also shows that most people who want a higher position achieve this within 12 months. We have legislation that facilitates a full-time culture, but we still have to be drivers to stimulate businesses to make the most of their full-time jobs. Furthermore, we need to discuss other elements that affect full-time and part-time. The working time rules form a central part of this debate, as does the voluntary part-time. Both are a challenge for the welfare society that we need to discuss in greater depth. I tend to say that I expect my fellow sisters to choose to work full time when they have the opportunity. If not, my daughter of three years will grow up in the same world that I grew up in, where anyone would notice that I was at home watching the kids instead of being in 100 pst. activity. It's important that we get as much work as possible. The value of work far exceeds the value of petroleum wealth, and we need more productive hours – from old to young and also from mid-centre – to compensate for this. That women work more could affect this. We're going to work on a full-time culture. I look forward to a debate on this issue and wish you every success.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e101	This issue is about strengthening the right to full-time work in the Working Environment Act. For ten years, the number of those working part-time has been at risk. If you do a quick search on find.no, you can see that there is a set of fixed part-time settings below 50 pst. published in the municipalities. Some of the positions are down to 13 pst. If we go more research-based, it turns out that Norway is the country in the Nordic region that spends most of its time among the elderly. The investigation is called Nord Care, led in the pen by a researcher named Mia Vabø at NOVA and OsloMet, and in other words demonstrates that there is something structurally different about how we organize the work and use of part-time in Norway, compared to countries that we use to compare us with. Finland, p. e. g., has no part time. Those working part-time in Sweden and Denmark usually work more than 80 p.m., while only in Norway we have settings of less than 20 hours a week. In other words, this is a structural question, but not least it is also a question of equality – it turns out when we go into numbers and look at how they divide between women and men. Because even though the number of women working part-time has fallen slightly in the last ten years, they are still far behind men in the pursuit of full-time jobs. In 2017, almost one out of three female workers was in a part-time job, while for men there was less than one out of ten. That doesn't help with normative statements to ladies, it doesn't help with moral index fingers or a call for full-time jobs. This is a structural problem, and it requires political answers. Full-time culture is an important part of it; it is what will be able to build quality in health and care. When one has safe added and less permeability, it also enhances the quality of supply and service, and the most important tool in the fight against the part-time crisis and widespread temporary use is more full-time use. Then we have good examples from municipalities that get good results by working targeted to increase job rates. An example is Arbeidarpart-steerte Malvik, who has had close and good cooperation between the tops of the route, the trusted and the added to the service and received results in the direction of more full-time. This is something that can be strengthened, for example: if one supports proposal No. 3 in the case, from the Workers' Party and SV, if, among others. to create a state-wide economic back-up scheme for projects where one works for more full-time and less part-time. The Labour Party, SV and the Centre Party agree to demand that employers prove that they need to use part-time settings. The goal of setting that requirement is to get more people to do it all the time. During the Stoltenberg II administration, we made it so that one should be entitled to the job fraction as an actual job. It is also the case that, from 1 January of this year, a part of a position has been strengthened. We thought it was good, but it's in no way enough to deal with the problem. Now we also have to turn the evidence around. Today, the part-time employees have to document the additional work they have done and require additional job breaks or full-time addition. I think that there should be demands that the employer document and predict the need to assign people part-time instead of using full-time settings. In other words, the will of all time is positive, for which I will also praise the other party. But one will be identified by which means one is willing to use to achieve the goal, and here we feel that the right-wing government is restrained, while we see the force behind this will and action behind these desires.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e118	Will the representative address the proposals behind the Labour Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e123	That's what the representative wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e128	Then the representative Hadia Tajik has taken up the proposals where the Workers' Party is co-sponsored.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e133	Work, having a job to go to, is important. In the future we also have to work more, we have to work smarter, and more people have to work. Work is what keeps the welfare community going, and well-being is the value of work. All the time for anyone who wants it, no one is against it. I'm sure there's something that we all agree on in the hall. The proportion of involuntary part-time has fallen, but it is clear that we could have been better. The intention behind the proposal that we are now discussing is good, but I cannot agree further, especially with those who work in the health and care sector. Permanent posts are the general rule of the Working Environment Act. It is stated in § 14-9: «Worker must be hired firmly.» I do not think that the requirement to reach all positions is to be whole will be the solution to the problems we have. Some still want to work part-time, and in some places there are simply too few people to fill all the jobs. Let me use an example. I'm from the Mosjön, Wefsn municipality in Northernland. This summer, there were over 20 vacancies throughout the municipality. The municipality was lured with the entire position, i.e. 100 pst., and in addition, a recruitment grant of 60 000 kroner for each of the people who wanted to work full time. At the same time, they were looking for night shifts, which are part-time jobs. They filled out all the posts without any problem or any recruitment allowance. So there were more people who wanted to work part-time than wanted to work full-time. All the nurses in my municipality get all the jobs if they want to, but many say no. One of our neighbouring municipalities, Hattfjelldal, tried the exact same thing. They increased the recruitment grant to NOK 100000, but there they had to reduce the posts afterwards as it was what the applicants wanted. In Nordland we need approx. 600 nurses. If it is now necessary to demand that these posts be whole, I think we are just making even more problems. The municipalities are going to wear more, you're going to get even fewer applicants, and it's going to be even harder to fill up the tours. We must not create a regulatory framework in which the mind behind is good, but which does not work in practice and can be difficult to implement. Part-time use has decreased, and in hospitals, unwanted part-time time has been reduced to a very low level. The Ministry has required regional health establishments and hospitals to have full-time coverage. In health regions, the average employment rate is now about the same. Ninety-nine. Also increasing the proportion of full-time employees in municipalities is clearly something the government wants to work with. Part of the legislation has been amended to increase the opportunities for people to take full time. At least once a year, the employer shall discuss the use of part-time with the trustees. Then they also become engaged, and it is certainly those who know best how the employees will work. If you work part-time, take extra shifts and work for others, you can also increase your own position accordingly. You also have the right to increase your position rather than hire new ones. This right also applies to parts of a post. I think we can say that we have a good law and a good framework. The challenges we face, especially in the area of health and care, cannot be solved with any skill or by further tightening the legislation. Recruitment, continuing training, increased recruitment and, not least, making this profession attractive are some of the measures currently being taken by the government. I think it'll be a better solution in the long term. Often the problem is not how large or how small the position is, but who should fill it. This is a job that needs to be done in cooperation with the employees, with the municipalities and with the organisations. The desire for a full-time culture of health and care is the cross-political agreement, and the framework we have today does not place any restrictions on this. However, the legislation also provides the opportunity to work part-time for those who want to do so. The municipalities want more flexibility. We're going to give them that. They need to have room to solve their own challenges for the best of their own employees and of their users.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e163	A well-organised work life is a prerequisite for a safe family life. Security of income is provided by permanent employment. The centre party has been very strongly involved in all discussions on the work environment law since 1977. Temporary employment shall relate only to Vicariats and seasonal work. The centre party is therefore in order to strengthen the right to full-time employment in the environmental protection law, and we are also in favour of the proposal that the employer should expect his/her part-time work. I would like to stress here that strengthening the right to full time in the work environment law is not such as to understand that it should be a duty to full time, but a right to full time. The Workers' Party and the Centre's party agree on a comment saying that we want to find balanced solutions that protect the interests of both the employee and the employer in this matter. We have the largest part-time share in professions with a high proportion of women, among other things. in the health and care sectors and in a number of practical professions in the fields of trade in goods, hotels and restaurants. There is a great deal of political consensus in this Chamber that it is too small for you to have a full-time culture, but when we come to the positions and instruments, it is different. What is at the heart of the practical professions, in the areas of trade in goods, hotels and restaurants, are among others: the trade organisation. It is too small a percentage of trade unions, and therefore there are also pay and working conditions there that are less competitive than in other professions. As a result, these professions become too much a stepping stone into the labour market and then try to work in other professions later. As a result, the overall pay and working conditions are not so favourable that there are enough people who are willing to have it as a future full-time job. So better pay and working conditions, better pay for work related to goods, hotels and restaurants, must be essential in this context. Then we have the health and care sector, where there is a need for both instruments and a different culture. As the representative from Nordland said before me, there are many job vacancies in the districts. There are many reasons for this, including: the education system, where we have too little decentralised training of health professionals. This means that too few people are connected to the place and thus choose to bet on a full-time job where there is a great need for it. Furthermore, it is important that the State and the Council of State of the Ministry of Health have clearer wording and requirements in their mission documents to health businesses for a full-time approach and a full-time culture. It is also important that a higher rate of temporary work pooling, both within health companies and in the municipal sector, in order to have full-time employees in permanent jobs in municipalities and health enterprises, which can then be used in the various places to avoid part-time work on such a scale as we have today. There is also reason to point out that there is a high workload in a number of health and care situations that are such that many choose to decrease from 100 pst. to maybe an 80 pst. position. It is something that employers should go in and change, so that it is possible for ordinary adults to have a 100 pst. health and care jobs in the most heavily burdened parts of the sector. Then we have the health professionals in the municipalities. The health professionals in the municipalities have a far too low status – the status that needs to be increased. Health professionals do a vital job. It's scary when a traveler travels around, discovers that those taking health education ask if there's a future education, if there's anything you can bet on. It is again linked to its status and to its terms and conditions of employment and pay. Finally, on the distribution of the weekend load: several have to work weekends to reduce the number of weekends per individual worker. So there's a whole that needs to be changed in order to get to the culture and attitudes that the Workers' Party and the Center Party stand for in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e184	In practice, the right to a full-time job is a matter of choice – for those who have permanent jobs as plumbers, carpenters, electricians, automation technicians, lawyers, mechanics or process operators. If one of these jobs comes to his boss and says that one will work less than a hundred percent, one gets the answer: where is the doctor's statement for that? However, if a worker such as a shop worker, a child and youth worker, a nurse or a carer, is almost guaranteed a long fight to get a full job. I mean, society is losing out on the fact that so much of the population can't exploit its potential in the world of work. First of all, in some of these jobs, everyday life is so hard that people get worn out and unemployed long before they have reached retirement age. If there was a right way to get this statistics out, I think this would have surprised most people. There is some reason why many are part-time workers on a voluntary basis. Secondly, services in hospitals, in nursing homes and in kindergartens are directly affected when continuity is then strained and divided. The fact that the welfare state can look at being able to unload people into part-time work, with extremely demanding and hectic days, to make sure that the same everyday heroes are dissatisfaction when they are 51 years old, is a mystery to me. I suspect that such a system looks reasonable right away, but I strongly doubt that in the longer term it is the best way to run the welfare state, either economically or qualitatively. With a strengthened right to the full-time, continuity would increase considerably in these jobs, and I think people would stand longer in the long term in work. We can't afford to stop thinking about how many more hands we'll need in the welfare sector in the future. This has been going on for many years now, and I believe that a statutory right to a full-time job must be in place to get more involved in the work on a full-time culture. Of course, it should be allowed to work part-time, but then the real and most common reason cannot be that the job is too hard to stand up to. With the sex-shared working life we have in this country, the right to full employment is a sun-ready equality fight. SV suggests because we think it's time to introduce this court, which is in practice real in man jobs, but not in women's jobs. We cannot leave the gender separation as the only reason for this wrong behaviour, either because of subroutine arguments such as dollar savings or more daily continuous spins. It is now time for the Storting to take this bias into account in the labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e197	The labour force in Norway is the main resource of society. The government wants to include more people in the labour market, both in the interests of individuals and in order to strengthen the basis of good welfare arrangements and high living standards in the future. What we're going to do after the oil is our joint effort. It is therefore important for the government to work for a full-time culture in working life. There's also a separate point on the Jeløya platform. In recent years, more projects have been launched to increase the number of full-time jobs, and the figures show that we are on the right track. Although we are not on target, the proportion of part-time employees has fallen in almost all age groups in the last 15 years. Part-time decline and shift towards full-time work are particularly high among women aged 25 to 54. At the same time, we must not forget that not everyone can or wants to work full time. For young people in education, full-time work is rarely relevant. For many who would otherwise have fallen out of work, part-time may be the option that allows them to remain in work. In some cases, it is also true that the enterprise does not have enough work to employ people in the full-time position. We also have rules that give workers who need it the right to a reduced position. In order to strengthen the rights of those who work involuntary part-time and who actually want and can work more, changes have been made to the Working Environment Act in recent years. Rules on the right of part-time employees to increase their position rather than new employment in the enterprise were introduced into the Working Environment Act in 2005, on a proposal from the Bondevik II Government, and a total increase was added. A change in law from June last year, which came into force from the turn of the year, specifies that part-time employees may also have the right to take advantage of only part of a post. Further action was taken in 2014 to reduce involuntary part-time. One measure means that the employer will discuss the use of part-time jobs with the trustees at least once a year. This obligation is particularly important in those parts of the world of work which have not been subject to a tariff obligation to discuss. This applies, for example: the hotel and restaurant industries and the retail sector, where the level of organisation is low and the extent of part-time is large. Part-time employees also have a statutory right to a scope of employment corresponding to the actual working time. The background to the provision is that many part-time employees regularly and over time work more than agreed upon by, for example: take additional guards, temporary workers in the event of another person’s illness or carry out additional work, without being reflected in the contract of employment. There is also a simpler dispute settlement procedure for these cases by allowing disagreement between the employer and the employee to be brought before the dispute resolution panel. Overall, this means that the legal status of part-time employees is both clarified and strengthened, while a simpler process is in place for those who wish to promote demands for an enlarged position. Instead of new rules, I think it is important to continue working on the many good processes that have been put in place to strengthen a full-time culture in working life. The framework we have in the Environmental Protection Act today is good, but it is important that the parties in the different industries also consider taking the measures they think work best in their industry – because it is an objective that more people work more, and as much as they can and want to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e221	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e226	Governments referred to many good proposals relating to all time. A row of them is driven by the Working Party and the Left. I refer you to proposal No. 2 on the subject of today's debate, where we ask the government to strengthen the right to a full-time job in the environmental work law by making demands that the employer should be able to predict his/her need for a part-time job. My question is really simple: why does the Council of State not – in the light of all that it says about the importance of full-time – want employers to demonstrate to a greater extent the need to assign people part-time?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e231	I believe that this is in many ways well taken care of in the Working Environment Act today through the rights already introduced there. I mentioned several of them in my post – both the employee’s right to a better position when it comes to hiring new ones, and the general obligation to discuss between the employee and the employer’s side today. But there is no doubt that there are challenges with part-time jobs today. There are too many people who light up for small job fractions. Then I believe that the two measures I mentioned are important, and they are already included in the law today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e238	I want to follow up on the topic raised by Hadia Tajik, i.e. our proposal that the employer should be able to assume his/her need for a part-time job. We are then dealing with the health and care sector, which is under public control either by its own activity or by the launching of tenders. What's the big challenge there are the weekend tours and to make them go up. My question is: What measures will the government take to solve weekend breaks by a significantly higher proportion of full-time jobs, and what level of ambition does the government have for full-time jobs in the health and care sectors? This should be possible if you have good organisation and good pay and working conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e245	There is no doubt that the shift and turn problem is a complex area that has been investigated and discussed over many years – including with the parties. We had our own working time committee that looked at the shift and turn challenges. As a consequence of the job placement of the Job Time Committee, we set up a one-year sample that worked together to see if it was possible to meet each other when the shift and rotation problems themselves were addressed in the job setting of the Working Time Committee. The parties did not reach an agreement in that sample, but they subsequently reached other types of agreement. Specter and Nurses' Association in the State sector and also in the KS have joined forces and discussed other ways of solving such challenges. What has been done by the government, as I also mentioned in my main post, is to strengthen the right to the entire position and the obligation to discuss between the parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e252	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e259	What I think is hot in this debate is that there is a mix of volunteering and involuntaryness in these part-time positions. This is made unconscious or conscious. When it's conscious, of course, it's to conceal the problems. We have seen this in the public debate, and we have seen it in part today. We have, as mentioned, problems in the service industry, e.g.: shops. Our daughter lasted for two years, I think, with a part-time position in a store. She was not offered a full position seam if she wanted it – for two years. We also see it in other parts of the service industry. But we also have this in HPO – health, care and care – that many have pointed out. That's where we might most easily see this problem. About two out of three are part-time employees — two out of three! We've got an a and a b team and maybe a c team in this field. We have the A team, which has received all the jobs and fixed income. We have a b-layer, with maybe a 50-60 pst.-position. They shop additional guards, which are often inconvenient. We also have the C team. They shop everything, and build up, like a house of mercenaries, a full position. Then we talk about convocation guards, sanctuaries, etc. I know someone who works at Dikemark. He has worked for four years to build up these mercenaries for a full-time job and has not been offered a full-time job and permanent employment, as he wants. Four years! Is that how it should be? I'm asking that question. Of course, this has great consequences, and it creates great injustice. It's obvious. Whole jobs are one of the most important gender equality requirements. It is mentioned here today. This applies largely to women-dominated professions. Among the tour staff in my county, Buskerud, it is only 20.8 pst. full-time staff – 20,8 pst. – one out of five. In the municipal sector, this is quite clear, and it varies a lot. In my county, Flesberg has 10.7 pst. full-time positions – 10.7 pst. – i.e. approx. one in ten have a full-time position. Rollag has 23.4 p.m. It is very important that the local government and the municipal administration address this to build a full-time culture. To sum up, there are two grips you can take: of course, it's the basic manning. It's the arena in the budget debate. The second is of course what you can do with the Working Environment Act, etc., and there we have the SV's proposal, as Solfrid Lerbreck has explained.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e272	I am surprised that the government parties seem to say they are so pleased with today's situation. Let me remind you that 37 pst. In Norway, employed women work part-time, half of the employees in the municipal sector work part-time, and in fact part-time is the general rule for municipal health, care and care. So when we propose here to strengthen the right to full time, it's because we're not satisfied with these numbers. We heard examples from the sea. Well, I was at home at Christmas talking to my mother, who has been working as a nurse in the municipality throughout her professional life, and that's exactly the same challenge in the Churches. In fact, we need 6,000 nurses and specialist nurses throughout the country, many of them in the municipalities and in the care of the elderly. But when we know that 50 pst. of the nursing positions that are published, are part-time positions, you can ask whether as politicians we can say with our hands on the heart to young people today: Yes, become a nurse, you, it is going to give you a good and stable job situation with good pay. There is no quick fix here, but a statutory right to full time should be a matter of course. Then it has to be worked in the municipalities, and more entire jobs have to be published. When we also know that basic manning needs to be increased – and it is going to cost money – municipalities need to have that room for action. In Oslo, the Red-Green City Council has worked systematically on this, with good results. In the kindergarten sector, a pilot project with a temporary pool is now being launched, which is a permanent worker with a full-time job. We have seen good results from other places in the country, including small municipalities. We're not talking about women going down to 80 pst. in an early childhood phase to make everyday life go up – although it should also be the subject of a debate of its own. We're talking about part-time as working time organization, and it's very common around Norway. In some large groups, it is the most common rule: health and care, merchandise, hotels and restaurants. At least I don't hear any response from the government parties on how they want to take political action to change how our working life is organized. Here we have good suggestions on the table: statutory entitlement to full time, and that the employer must be able to assume the need for part time. We should be able to agree on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e283	It seems that there is a strong consensus that full-time jobs should shape Norwegian working life. Nevertheless, we have major problems in implementing it, especially in the care sector, I would say. It is a challenge we should face, because it is proven, in this debate too, that in other countries it has been possible to solve this in a much better way. I hear the reasons given by the Council of State and others for accepting these proposals, which are available here from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV, in particular the proposal that employers should have a responsibility to prove the need for part-time work. The Council of State says that the provisions we have today are satisfactory. But when the situation is such that we can safely say that developments in these important areas of working life stand still, the Storting should be able to gather around, as I also hear the Council of State and the government parties argue that full time is important, and that we went a step further. But you don't want to. What is the issue in the debate then, as I hear this, is why in all the world it is that the government and government parties are opposed to a review of the Working Environment Act in view of the fact that this is going to be even better, in order to deal with the situation especially in the care sector, but also in the service sector. But they won't. They don't want to go that way. It is only through political decisions and legislative formulations that we can push the labour market forward towards full-time employment, including in these important areas. I'm not going to extend the argument too far, but that you don't want to do this, don't want to go into such a legal formula, stick to the sequence of that discussion and the distinction that goes between the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party on the one hand and the government parties on the other. It shows that, nevertheless, there is a significant distinction in the view of full-time employment and part-time employment in the Norwegian political environment. We've seen that on many occasions. Now there has been no dramatic development in the number of part-time employees in Norway lately – it is quite obvious that it does not, and it is good – but we should have the ability to clean up this. It is regrettable that the parties to the government and the government are not involved in this constructive proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e292	I just have to say that it's strange to hear more people say that the government parties are satisfied with the situation as it is, because we say we want to work for more full time. But we must recognise that this issue is about both structure and culture. Kari Ingstad at North University recently wrote in a chronicle: "Simple math says that 20 pst. of working time must be on weekends in order to have a full-time culture where patients need 24/7.» We're talking about basic personnel here. Ground crews are important, but basic crews cannot take account of differences in needs during a week of work. I even started my professional career as a part-time employee at Rimi Kverneland, and I have been in the situation that was referred to earlier, where I tried to work more than I could. Then I became the store manager after a few years at this store and was going to make tour arrangements myself, and there I had most people on Fridays and Saturdays, because that's when most people are in line. I have served these angry customers who are waiting, and I must honestly admit that unfortunately I am myself today one of these angry customers who is waiting when there are long queues. I'll give you an example of this. I've been talking about the store, and I could talk more about it, but I'm starting from a restaurant. A restaurant will need six years' worth of service to customers in a good way over the week. If they have open all day, but have the most traffic Friday, Saturday and Sunday, they need five people to work on Saturday and six people to work on Sunday to have satisfied customers. If these activities follow the rules of the Employment Environment Act, there is a need for 12 people to have the crew plan up, and because the employees are free every two Sundays, in line with the Working Environment Act § 10-8, it will provide an average job size of 50 pst. This restaurant can't increase basic staff and give all these people a full-time job — it doesn't work together. That is why we need to be able to discuss working time arrangements. Different tour schedules have been said to provide full-time culture for many years. The social partners discuss this and should discuss it further – long-term guards, 3–3 turns and more frequent weekend work are some examples of this. Many part-time jobs, temporary jobs, short shifts, unforeseeable working hours and wages, as well as loopholes in the tour, are very much in need of temporary workers, and this also causes wear and tear on other employees. We have also talked about the need in healthcare for continuity in patient follow-up. However, we must recognise that this is not solved by further legislation that is being called into question by other legislation that gives the right to a reduced position for periods of time. We need to be able to raise the issue of working time, because it's important if we're going to get on with this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e306	I thought it was very good that the representative Hagerup now took the floor, because it turns out once again that after one has come up with the high-level words about the importance of full-time work and full-time culture, and when one starts drilling a little more in it, it ends up saying that the representative from the Right tells that it is really quite difficult – in fact, in many industries it seems to me that it is possible, in fact, that there are probably not so many ladies who want to work all the time either. Then I almost have to ask how the right-wing representatives intend to explain that some other countries actually get this. When the research shows that Finland does not have part-time work in the care of the elderly, and when the research shows that those who work part-time in Sweden and Denmark, usually work more than 80 pst., while in Norway we have job announcements down to 13 pst., this is something that has a political solution, which one in Norway has chosen not to use. One has chosen not to use more forceful lye, a more powerful tool, as we suggest in this room, and as we now risk is voted down. We also heard that one of the representatives from the right-hand side was up here and said that we have to make sure that working within health and care becomes more attractive, so that we can recruit more people. How do you intend to make this part-time job more attractive? How does one intend to ensure that one can recruit more people, if one cannot also ensure that there is a working life where the entire settings are announced, with care for them? There is one thing that makes work attractive. Clearly, it also has an impact on wage formation in some industries. Don't you see? Would you not use the political tools that actually lead to the measurements that one stands here on the pulpit and talk so hotly about? One at least has the possibility today, with the proposals made by the Workers' Party, together with the SV and the Center Party. This may help to strengthen your work for more full-time.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e314	It's interesting to hear, as the representative Hadia Tajik also points out, here it really comes out that the government parties are experiencing this as a situation we're not really going to have to do so much with. That's just the way work is in Norway. That's just -- there's not as much we can do about it. We can encourage, we can ask women to work less part-time, but work life is now even like that. Then it's just interesting, as was also pointed out here, that Norway is in a special position. We are in a special position considering how many women, especially, who work part-time in Norway, in Norwegian employment. Then it's about how the world of work is organized. Let me do a concrete example. Gamvik municipality in Finnmark, a municipality that was on the ROBEK list, had major financial challenges. Then you grabbed hold, you decided that this would be a full-time municipality. The whole health and care sector was reorganised; part-time to full-time work was ensured. Then a working day has to be organised differently. Then it might be like working a little bit in the old age center, and then a little work at the health center later. Then you get a different way of organizing working life. But you went from part time to full time. It was concluded in the municipality that it was cheaper, the municipality saved money because you could have less rent, less temporary employment. There were better services, more continuity in health and care services for the population in the municipality of Gamvik, and more satisfied employees were given both a safer working day and a more exciting working day. This is possible if a political decision so decides. My question to the government is whether you are satisfied with the pace you are now seeing in part-time jobs and changes there in Norway. It's practically been standing still for ten years, so with that development it takes decades, in decades, in decades, before we see significant changes in today's tool use. Is it satisfactory for the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e323	This topic has been discussed many times. As others have been involved, and as the representative Martin Kolberg said, it is a challenge that we have to face. Arne Nävra said it in an excellent way; he said it develops a-, b- and c-layer in the health and care sector. There are descriptions in which we recognize ourselves. Then the representative, Mr Hagerup, says that we need to discuss working time arrangements, and I would like to say to the representative that I fully agree. There are several parties here that need to be present. It is quite obvious that management, whether in a store, in a health company or in the municipality, needs to change their attitude, but also the trade unions have their own responsibility. We need to have a discussion about how many professional groups are going to work weekends. Should also be used by intermediaries, for example: in the health and care sector work more weekendly, not only health professionals and others with less theoretical education? The management of the union, as I know them over many years, has been very concerned about this and finding solutions that make it a better distribution of the burden of working on weekends, thereby ensuring more full-time positions. When the union has been very concerned about it, it's because very many of their members are members who get the strain on many weekend tours when no one else takes it, and many of them have part-time positions. I just want to appeal that this is a matter with which the government has to go further, and that the trade unions are also more aware of it and share the burdens that are there, while at the same time providing payment and working time arrangements for those concerned, making it reasonably attractive to take. There are, as Martin Kolberg said, challenges that we have to face, and we do not need many more such general debates now. We need debates that show how we actually do it in the field by area.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e332	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e348	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, seven rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e357	This is a very comprehensive proposal, covering many different areas both within and outside the welfare sector. Very many of the themes that you will be discussing are dealt with in a government-designated selection that is currently looking at how more decisions on these issues can be put into practice. The selection shall propose solutions to ensure that public funds go as far as possible to the production of actual well-being and how unwanted tax adaptations in companies mainly funded by public funds can be prevented. The selection shall consider how to ensure that actors receiving public support for the operation of health services have pay, employment and pension conditions in line with those of other public activities. In this work, it is also important that the selection looks at the co-legislation, so that it does not contribute to creating different pay, employment and pension conditions in relation to what is added to public activities. The selection shall also assess how one can counteract the use of supply in the public sector, including transfer of assets and change of supplier, weakening the pension conditions of those adding. These are important underscores to which a Joint Committee has referred. The wording of the Size sliders means that the selection comes back with satisfactory answers to all of these questions. Then we will probably have the opportunity to come back to this once the selection has completed its work. For the Workers' Party, it is also important to highlight in what direction we will go in these areas. Together with the SV and the Centre, we have proposed that all actors who receive support for the public operation of welfare services should have pay and working conditions that are no worse than those in the corresponding public activities. In the event of an incubation, we have also been standing as co-sponsors of proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox That proposal now informs us that we will vote against it, as it can be read in a way that is not consistent with our policy. We are concerned that the welfare services are essentially owned and run by the public, and a stepping up in that direction is for us. But that does not necessarily mean that all welfare services that receive some form of public support should be owned by public or non-profit actors, as the proposal can be read. Nevertheless, the level of non-profit and public service activities must gradually increase in relation to today. I then take on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV up the proposals No. Two and three. Another proposal I would like to mention is the proposal for stricter criminal action in the event of a breach of labour law. It is a general challenge throughout the working life. Penalties in many cases are so mild that criminals do not take them seriously. In my opinion, large sums could be saved for society if one had taken this more seriously and had criminal reactions that worked well enough. Firstly, criminal reactions in themselves provide income, and secondly, avoiding crime, which also leads to social outlays, is avoided. This does not apply only to well-being, in general, from the lack of control of trucks arriving in Norway without being in proper condition, to breaches of working time and breaches of safety procedures. A few days ago, the Riksrevision presented the report on the situation in the Petroleum Authority. The judgment was shattering: supervisory practices with reduced effectiveness that do not help to identify those being controlled, do not correct, and supervision does not check whether it has been improved. Reaction agents are late in use, and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment does not follow up on supervision to discharge its responsibilities – it says. This is a crushing criticism of both supervision and ministry, and there is no particular reason to believe that there is so much better in other areas of society. For example, in the area of occupational safety and health, where the welfare sector is located, we know that control activities have fallen in recent years. We, together with the Senterpartiet and SV, have asked the government to come back with a message to the Stortinget where fines and criminal charges in connection with offences against the laws and regulations before the labour market is reviewed.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e378	The representative Leif Audun Sande has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e383	Thank you for the clean and good work done by the rapporteur-general. There is broad political agreement on the Norwegian solution with publicly funded health and care services. The population receives good health care as needed and pays over the tax bill according to their ability. At the same time, the Right believes that good welfare is best ensured through an interaction between public, private and non-profit actors, whether it be the operation of kindergartens, schools, hospitals or child protection institutions. Competition in public services where public responsibility for financing has been an important factor in increasing the quality and diversity of the services provided to citizens. The joy is to see that when private and ideal think new, the public follows, and vice versa. This is the whole idea of diversity, of learning from each other and getting better. However, safe working conditions for employees should be the same regardless of who makes the offer. All Norwegian workers must have an orderly pay and working conditions in any case. Similarly, as citizens, we should have the same quality of service whether we are public or private. If public services are more expensive for the community and worse for citizens than services provided by a private welfare provider, there should be a greater problem for society than if a private welfare provider is able to deliver better services through better operation and thus obtain a profit. There are many ways to better organise operations. In the Working Environment Act, there is flexibility to adapt working hours and tours, preferably in cooperation with trustees and employees, and the government has extended the participation scheme. In addition, there is a legitimate need for both temporary staff and consultants. However, it is already unacceptable and contrary to the legislation to do so in order to avoid the responsibility of employers for decent pay, proper working conditions and safe tours. It undermines both the serious welfare providers, who are already at risk of being pushed out for purely ideological reasons, and the common political objective of the rule of Norwegian working life being full and permanent jobs. This counters what the Right wants to achieve, which is good welfare services based on a safe and decent working life with sufficient flexibility to manage variations. Our experience is that both public, non-profit and private services mainly provide good care services based on decent working conditions, but errors occur, and there are exceptions. Therefore, good control mechanisms must be ensured for all modes of operation. Contracting authorities are already required to contract both pay and working conditions and to verify that they are complied with when concluding contracts with private service providers. In addition, a control function is already under way in the ministry as a follow-up to the Storting decision. The government has also stepped up the punishment in the Labour Environment Act in 2015. It is important that we have legislation that supports alerts and that protects those who say from criticism in a good way. In 2016, the government set up an alert committee which has proposed a number of legislative changes and other measures to strengthen alert protection. The government is now working on the follow-up. The Staff Regulations provide that employees of private or public institutions may stay at work for longer consecutive periods in order to carry out specific care and treatment tasks. This provides care, stability and tranquillity around the most vulnerable among us. As Fafo evaluated the co-delivery scheme in 2015, they found that employees are mainly satisfied with long-term and co-delivery arrangements. In connection with the extension of the scope, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs announced that they would allow the scheme to operate for a while before evaluating it again. There is no contradiction between efficient operation and orderly pay and working conditions. On the contrary, I would say that the last one is a prerequisite for the first. There's no ideological contradiction here either. The vast majority of us are actually dependent on publicly funded well-being for ourselves and our closest. As a politician and a relative, I have a strong interest that those who are going to take care of me and my loved ones have a decent salary, proper working conditions and proper tours. It can't be like that when Labour Party rapporteur Rita Ottervik was supposed to defend the recommuneration of two private hospitals in Trondheim and should have said: it's nice that the elderly have it well, but that's not the point. For us in the Right, the whole point is that citizens should receive good services, of course based on decent pay, decent working conditions and decent tours by both public, non-profit and private welfare providers.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e408	The representative, Mr Moxnes and Mr Redt, have put forward a proposal drawing a picture of various private providers in the welfare services that are not correct. Through this proposal and previous claims, they have repeatedly tried to draw a picture of private companies such as cynical operators without interest in the quality of the service they offer, or their employees. It is with respect to report wrong. In the proposal, Moxnes claims that the population will invest in common well-being, not in private enrichment. That conclusion is mildly special. We are all concerned that the quality of services provided should be good. We are also concerned that working and employment conditions should be good, regardless of whether the employer is public or private. The difference is that, on the non-social side, we are also concerned with using the tax money of our citizens as cost-effective as possible. That's where the dividing lines go. Private suppliers provide good and necessary services to the public, with good quality and working conditions for employees. In many cases, the more reasonable services are provided than public services, and there is a profit in doing so. It does not cost any more for the individual taxpayer, but it can show the public way of providing high-quality and good-quality services for employees, but nevertheless more reasonably. Instead of looking at it as an opportunity for a good transfer of competences, the Red Party, the Labour Party and the Left Party will often close their ears and eyes to the innovation and service development that private people often contribute to. The kindergarten sector is a good example. The public, in cooperation with the private sector, has expanded its capacity. The vast majority of private kindergartens operate well and have the same requirements as government for quality and collective agreements with employees. For many years, private kindergartens have run with less money per place than the public. Nevertheless, many have experienced economic surplus. It tells me that private both can and will and should be recognised for their good contribution, not that you draw such a picture as Red here does. There can be no doubt that our people want their tax money to go as far as possible. We do not do that by stopping the diversity of suppliers that contribute to innovation and improvement. Contracts between public and private suppliers also sometimes reveal defects in deliveries or offences. It is not good, of course, but does not illustrate that this is done in any contract or with any supplier. In the proposal for a representative, Red shows, among other things: to a case with Aleris, where several defects and defects were discovered, and that is not good. But it also shows that the public has the ability to correct those errors and deficiencies. Therefore, it is important to have good control over all those who provide services. Whether they are private or public suppliers, we have an obligation to check that the pay and working conditions are always good, and that the delivery and offer to the individual user are sound and keep the high level to which they are required. Thinking that unification is the solution, believing that monopolies are the solution, is a outdated view that has proved to be non-voting. The Progress Party has great faith in a variety of suppliers, so that we can learn from each other and see what's going well. It will provide the best offer to users of services, and in addition, it will result in the most efficient use of taxpayers' money.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e425	It is an important topic – good working conditions for good welfare services. There are many welfare services. It's everything from kindergarten, school and child protection to the health and care sector, and it's a very comprehensive topic. It concerns permanent, full-time, education, pay and working conditions and working time arrangements. I would like to comment on the three proposals on which the Central Party is involved, and since the Workers' Party withdrew proposal No. 1, I'll also take that up. As regards proposal No: One, it is not, as Mr Wiborg said, a proposal which will involve monopolisticism. That's wrong. I would ask that representatives from the Progress Party tell what is true, and not make stories that do not have the basis for what we are proposing. The proposal, now from the Centre Party and SV, is that one should have a plan for gradual escalation of public and non-profit ownership and operation. For the Center Party, it's quite natural to have a plan for stepping it up because that's what the pillars of our welfare system are, public and non-profit. There has been too much commercial operation. We want to dampen it more – therefore a stepping up. When the rapporteur says that the Workers' Party is no longer in favour of that proposal, that it is incubated, I would say that it is indeed an incurrence that the Workers' Party is abandoning, because when we read the proposal, the proposal is not formulated in such a way that we cannot have commercial actors. I would like to ask the representative of the Workers' Party to clarify it and come back to the original one, namely to cooperate with the Centre Party and SV on the proposal. Proposal No. 2 it is necessary to impose conditions of pay and employment on the outsourcing of competition, that they are not worse than those provided by the public authorities. Whether it's ideal or commercial, it's quite natural for the Centre Party to support such a proposal. This has been updated to the degrees in the consideration of the bill on payroll treatment, which came from the Committee on 6 December 2018 – a result of the lockout of the NHO Service and trade in the employment dispute with Norsk Nursing Association at the tariffs settlement in 2018, the so-called care and care agreement. The centre party had there a note stating that: «the public must lay down the same conditions of pay and employment as those applicable to its own employees.» I have previously asked what is the Council of State's position on having such a claim in connection with the postponement of tenders, and I ask again that the Council of State respond to it, because now the Council of State has had many opportunities to think through that issue. If the State Council follows up the Central Party, SV and the Workers' Party's position, it will reduce the level of conflict in matters of which we have unfortunately had too many. As regards proposal No: 3, fines and infringement fees apply. The review of fines and infringements in the field of labour law and regulations is quite natural and necessary. We haven't said what level you're going to be at, but you have to go through it and look at what kind of reaction agents you're going to have for the breach that's happened. When the government, with the Right in the head, doesn't agree with that, I can't help but interpret from it that it shows that the Right has a different attitude towards infringements and breaches of the laws and regulations of labour law. So it's not that dangerous. We have to leave that position. We have to be serious about these things that are equal to the seriousness we have in other areas. This will result in a different behaviour, which will allow us to clean up the system, and therefore we will also have better competitive relationships between serious and less serious businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e443	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e448	I would like to begin by congratulating the author of the proposal for a very good proposal for a representative. It is such that the quality of the work being done is closely related to the conditions under which the person carrying out the work works, and in a modern and complex society in which we live, we are forced to make sure that these two factors are proportionate to each other. In recent years, this has been particularly evident in other ways of organising welfare services, in view of private actors who intend to spend money on publicly funded tasks. There is also a hard-pressed local economy where each krona that can be saved must be saved. This often goes on the cost of adding them. It is quite clear that when adding to care for often very challenging user groups, such as Mentally ill children with child protection or developmental disabilities, all the time under pressure of how few they can be at work, or how many unskilled services tolerate, have this effect when things go on over time. There are particular implications when the objective of this type of operation is that the owner of a company should milk out public tax credits to himself. When the public authorities are not involved in development, simply because they are not adequately funded and expanded in relation to new tasks, there is a lot to clean up in this area. SV has therefore put forward several proposals on this matter, where the proposal that constitutes the biggest change is the proposal that public funded welfare services should only be run by public or non-profit actors. With that, I will take up all the suggestions that SV has in the setting. We also vote for Red's loose proposals on alerts.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e461	The representative Solfrid Lerbreck has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e466	It is comforting to hear the representatives of the bourgeois parties on the pulpit of the Storting speak with such resistance to the facts, to the reality and to see the consequences of the policy they stand for and run, not least with regard to the matter we are talking about today. There is a link between the fact that employees have good working conditions, job security, and the quality that those who depend on welfare services get at the other end – it's on a nursing home, in child protection or in kindergarten. If employees have unworthy working conditions — if they are pushed beyond what is right in the job — then some people who depend on these employees are also affected. That's what we see in the Aleris case, which is now being rolled out in court, which is a consequence of the system the bourgeois parties are in favour of, by supporting the commercialisation of well-being. What do the employees say? An employee said the following about having gone extremely long guards, often several days after each other without rest: "Then you walk around like zombies. We're going to take care of people who need you to be awake. There may then be situations that are quite dry». This is the consequence of a system of releasing profit-based companies, which is to have money out of the welfare of the community. When the money is to be collected, costs must also be cut. The main costs of welfare services are, as most people here should know, wages and pensions for the employees and the number of people at work. That's where you can squander the cost of being able to get big profit at the other end. Now Aleris is bought up by the company Ambea, where an American investment fund, called KKR, is one of the main owners. One is reasonably naive if one believes that an American investment fund, which is otherwise also located in tax havens, is primarily intended to help nursing elderly or vulnerable children. Most likely, the aim of the KKR is to raise as much money as possible to owners – which is secret, ownership is secret, we don't know anything about – in tax havens. That is the purpose of the operation of this company. Then, of course, the Community may adopt framework conditions and, as far as possible, try to prevent commercial pursuits of commercial interests in welfare. Red is included in any proposal or measure which may try to regulate the companies as much as possible. But at the same time, we realize the fundamental, namely that a limited liability company aims to generate profits for the owners of the limited liability company. When the main cost is employees — and that is where you can save money and cut costs, which can once again affect vulnerable users of services — the only viable thing in the long term, we believe, is to phase out the commercial well-being and step up public and non-profit ownership, which has not benefited. It is a principle which, in other words, the Right Party supports in terms of education. The right is, of course, against dividends from private schools – as they themselves have said in the main hall – so that all money goes to education and to the best of students and not to private profit. In the case of child protection, kindergartens and care for the elderly, however, it is clearly quite right for the Right and the Advance Party that taxes, several hundred million dollars, are taken out of the well-being of private enrichment. It's a big paradox. We also want to strengthen the protection of those who say about critical conditions at work. It is important for employees and not least for service users. Therefore, we will strengthen the protection of warnings contained in the Working Environment Act. We hope for a majority in the Chamber who can support the resolution, which is also in line with the other parties that have said earlier about strengthening the warnings in the world of work. With that, I'll take up Red's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e485	The representative Bears Moxnes has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e490	It is an overall objective of the government to provide the public with high-quality welfare services. An important tool in this context is to release all good forces and allow public welfare services to be complemented by private providers, both commercial and non-profit. This also contributes to the diversity of supply. It is also important that welfare services ensure the proper use of Community funds. The Government has reduced a sample to review publicly funded welfare services in which private operators participate in the production. The survey will highlight important issues relating to the use of private actors in the development of publicly paid welfare services. Public – state and municipality – must be sure that the offer is of good quality, that legal certainty for users is ensured, and that the public does not overpay for such services. The committee shall also consider questions relating to the pay, pension and working conditions of employees. There is a broad political consensus to protect the Norwegian solution with a publicly funded healthcare service. The population shall be fairly distributed health care as needed, while paying by capacity over the tax bill. However, it is not essential for the government to carry out health care. We like to use private health institutions if it gives the patient greater freedom of choice or better and faster treatment. It does not create a two-part health care system, but counteracts a two-part health care system. During the previous government we saw increasing health cows and waiting times, while the availability of private and non-profit actors was not exploited. In order to reverse the negative trend, this government has among other things. introduced free treatment choices. It gives patients who are already entitled to health care, shorter waiting time and increased freedom of choice. During this government, waiting times have been reduced by 13 days and the number of waiting times has been reduced by about 70000. Like the Storting, the government is also concerned that we should use ideal actors to operate public welfare services. The size has asked for measures to achieve this, and the government has taken a number of different measures to achieve the objective of growth in the share of the overall health care sector organised and run by non-profit-making activities. There must be an orderly pay and working conditions in the labour market. Public activities have a special responsibility and should lead by example in purchasing services from private individuals. The Labour Inspectorate supervises compliance by public undertakings with the responsibility for following up suppliers in accordance with the rules on pay and working conditions laid down in public contracts. In addition, clear indications have been provided in the letters of assignment to state enterprises for 2018 that acquisitions should take place in such a way as to discourage labour-life crime. By presenting their practices in acquisitions through their annual reporting, businesses will be provided with a brief overview of practices and understanding of where improvements need to be made. The Labour Inspectorate may impose penalties in all cases where they find that there is a breach of the rules. Several studies and samples have been launched that address the use of private actors in publicly funded welfare services. There are already control mechanisms and penalties for infringements of the rules in the case of pay and working conditions. The Government considers that there is no reason to adopt new proposals now.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e507	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e512	In this proposal, there are a lot of things that are being recorded, which are being passed on to the selection that is being discussed. What I want to ask the Council of State is how it follows this up, so that the Storting gets a good answer to the orders you have given, and that it is consistent with what was actually the order.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e517	Now the government has, among other things, set up this expert committee to review the various conditions, including those relating to the pay and working conditions of employees. This is subject to the Ministry of Economic Affairs, so I have to make some reservations there, but the first delivery will come by the end of this year. In parallel with the work of the Committee of Experts, the Minister for Children and Gender Equality sees the acquisitions in the field of child protection, and the Ministry of Knowledge looks at the framework conditions for the kindergarten sector. The government will return to the Storting in an appropriate manner as work has been carried out and recommendations have been received.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e522	State Council Hauglie said in his speech that the government wants to release all «good» welfare actors to. That's the government's attitude. Aleris is well among the “good” actors of the government. They are members of the NHO Service and Trade. But what is interesting is that they do not receive support from the NHO in the trial against the Trade Union. It can only mean that they are not so ‘good’ that the NHO supports their behaviour, otherwise it would have been quite natural for the NHO to provide Aleris’s support. That's something they need. My question is therefore: are such as Aleris among them when the government says let go of all 'good' welfare actors?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e531	This question reminds me in many ways of some of the questions I got in Storting's spontaneous question hour as well. I have to ask for understanding that I cannot comment on the outcome of a trial. There is now a wide range of legal proceedings between Aleris and 25 of Aleris’ employees on pay and working conditions, including: the form of employment. Now the court will have to deal with the matter first before we – I was about to say – pre-conclusion in the matter. However, on a general basis, I believe that it is important for Norwegian health and welfare services to use the good forces that are out there, those who want and ways to provide services that are best for patients, for users, who offer something more, and who may contribute to increased diversity in the provision of services. We assume that there are suppliers who behave properly, who comply with the laws and regulations, and who provide employees with good pay and working conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e538	I understand the answer so that what the government puts in ‘good’ is all those who act in such a way that they are not convicted in the judiciary for their behaviour. It's interesting to have that attitude, because there's an understanding out there among people that there are many who stick to laws and guidelines, but still cannot be characterised as ‘good’ welfare actors, because they balance on and outside what people see as ethically decent. However, my question goes further to a proposal made here by the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV, namely that if the government outsources welfare services to such commercial ones, there should be a requirement that pay and working conditions are not worse than in public enterprises. Why can't the government support such an attitude?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e545	There is already a regulation on pay and working conditions for the outsourcing and purchase of public services, and the government assumes that State activities follow up the contracts concluded. We have now also made this clear for the first time, in 2018, in the allocation letters. I also believe that there will be an artificial distinction between private and public, where public services by definition are good, while private individuals by definition are bad, and an artificial distinction between commercial and non-profit actors. What is essential for the government is that those providing services to the public provide good quality services, that patients and users are met and that the rights of employees are properly respected. And then it's not necessarily that because you don't get killed in court, you're by definition good. Judicial decisions can also reveal weaknesses in a law, such as corruption and government have the privilege of correcting them if you think there is a need for them.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e558	Employment and working conditions in the public sector are the result of long experience and interaction between public and professional organisations, and one has come to the conclusion that this is the compromise that one wants to have in order to ensure the quality and competence that one wants. The Council of State says that one wants to follow up the contracts with commercial ones. But the problem is that the contracts do not define pay and working conditions. When it is not defined, pay and working conditions can become a means of competition for the commercial ones in order to obtain the contracts by then entering into worse conditions. That is what one will stop with this proposal for a representative. Why can't the Council of State agree with that when, in the course of negotiations with the trade unions, it has just laid down the requirements for its own activities and its own employees?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e564	There are several instruments that the authorities have and have put in place to improve and ensure the pay and working conditions of employees. You have e.g. areas of general use, which in reality do not have the minimum wage, so that at least all those in particular sectors are required to have certain pay and working conditions. In addition, the regulation I referred to makes clear demands that there should be provisions relating to pay and working conditions for the purchase of services or public sector tendering. Even as a local politician in Oslo, I have been involved in several purchases of private services to the public sector, where we made clear demands on which pay and working conditions would apply in the contracts we entered into. So there are already guidelines for that, and I assume that the public is at the forefront of ensuring that pay and working conditions are respected when purchasing private services.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e569	The case contains many interesting themes. One of those who seem to be particularly important is the question of the protection of alerts. Last 3 September, the deadline for the hearing was set for NOO 2018: 6 from the Alert Committee. We must all agree that it is now urgent to put in place a stronger protection for alerts. One story after another appears in the media, some of them even from the same department, which should have learned. The European Commission presented a proposal for a new directive last year on the need for reinforced alert protection. The Council of Europe has also recommended that Member States adopt provisions for enhanced alert protection. I asked the State Council on 6 September last year when Stortinget could expect a case, as a follow-up to the Alert Committee. Then the Council of State did not respond to that in concrete terms. I wonder if it is possible to get a more concrete answer to that now.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e576	It's true that we've set up an expert committee that made its recommendations last year. The case has been put to the hearing, the hearing period was last autumn. We have received many input and feedback on the work of the selection. There are slightly different views on the different proposals that have come from the sample. The government has gone through all the recordings, and we aim to make concrete proposals during the spring. Then Stortinget will be presented with one case, so that we can further strengthen the alert protection. The size has already proposed, on a proposal from the government and on a proposal from the Storting through a proposal from the representative, to strengthen alert protection, and there will be more proposals during this spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e581	The company Aleris is now sold to Swedish Ambea, who will have control over the entire 25 p.m. of the care market in Norway with this purchase. Ambea's parent company is Actor and registered in Luxembourg, where ownership is secret. Then we hear the council say that the Right wants all good forces on the team in care in Norway. We also hear the reactions when Red points out the obvious fact that these actors have profited for purpose. But it is an additional purpose to have ownership in Luxembourg. It is to reduce taxable income to Norway. Does the Council of State consider that companies such as Ambea, owned by Actor in Luxembourg, have the primary purpose of providing the best possible care for the elderly and children with child protection or of obtaining profits for their owners?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e588	I believe that those who are to provide care services should have as their primary purpose the provision of good welfare services to the citizens, regardless of the sector in which they are to provide them. It is the quality of services that should be the main indicator to be taken into account by the authorities. I don't want to go into Aleris. As I have said in previous answers, there is now a legal case. It will last a few months, and then we will see what the outcome of it will be, and if there is a need to make some changes to the law as a result of it. Now there is also a dedicated selection of experts to look at the purchase of private services, both the volume of purchases of private services and how public money can be better used. Conditions of employment and employment are part of their mandate. As I said in a previous answer, the sample's first deliveries will arrive at the end of this year. In parallel, several departments also work to look at the extent of the outsourcing and how to ensure better use of public money.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e597	I guess that wasn't exactly an answer to the question. It is nice that the Council of State believes that it should have as its primary purpose to provide the best possible care, but a company registered in a tax haven, owned among others. of the wealthiest men in the United States, have a slightly different purpose than the Council of State thinks they should, even though it may fit well into the Right World of performance. When we link this profit motive with the fact that the main cost of well-being is employee pay and working conditions and retirement, is the question: does the Council see that having profit-based health and care actors increases the risk of cutting employees' wages and working conditions and manning in order to maximise profits?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e602	After all, it is not prohibited to make money on business in this country. It is important to remember that you have to run privately, you also have to go with profits – if you cannot drive. The premise of the Moxnes representative is that he does not want a private sector in this area and that this should preferably be publicised or communicated to the public. There we disagree politically. We believe that private actors are good. But we do not believe that all private operations are good at all costs. It must be properly operated, and it must be operated qualitatively, both from a user perspective and, of course, from an employee's point of view. It will be interesting to see the expert committee's report when it comes during this year and next year. We will then be able to see both the extent of the outsourcing and how public money can best be used, because we agree that public money should be used in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e609	Replicate cord shift complete. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e616	There's a couple of things that are mentioned here, which I want to say a few words about. About the participation scheme and the rules: It's not that the Workers' Party is against people working part-time. Membership tours are something that one has, and they think it's good, and patients think it's good – so that's not it. We want these schemes to be part of the same system as other working time schemes in Norway when working in addition to the norms of the Working Environment Act, i.e. agreements are concluded with the union with the right to set-up, and one on that basis is continuing such schemes. Had an e.g. calculate the working time in the same way in a socket turn as a do in a delivery system, the socket turn had been given twice as long working time. The point is that it can do with the rules in the Working Environment Act, and we should be able to do that here without having an exception, as is the case with this directive. So to this with the operation of public services. There are no ideological reasons why the Labour Party felt that the public should run things. There are practical, concrete reasons for this, because operations are improved that way. Outsourcing on a large scale is not a good thing either when private people do it, or when public people do it, because they add more displeasure with such schemes. It is more pleasant to work in the main company for which you work, and you get a much stronger loyalty to the employer and to the tasks you have. In addition, a throw away money on the administration of contracts and offer announcements – and not least, what goes to profit can be used for operation. So there are practical, concrete crests that make one stand for this. It's the right-hand side that has ideological reasons, which means that private operations are so much better than public operations, because private people can create so much more. That is not the case. We take care of it by saying that we also want others to get away with it, but then it has to be on an ideal basis, and the ideal ideas with many new ideas. They have not profited as their most important starting point. For warning: Let's not doubt that the Workers' Party is for stricter warning rules, but we have a selection that has worked on this, and they have concluded. They have suggested three models that we should look at for the future. It is either that the Labour Inspectorate is strengthened, that a warning is created, or that one should look at what is called a warning house in the Netherlands. We have not concluded on what we want, but let us not doubt that we will strengthen the rules for the notifyers.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e627	This is a very serious matter. It is a serious matter because the commercialisation that we see in the right parties is driving through within health and care, threatens the quality of the service. It threatens the service unit, and it threatens the similarity of the offer. It also threatens workers. As other representatives said, it is true that workers with poor working conditions become worse health and care workers — of course. So there's a side by this that I think it's really timely to start raising questions about. So the right hand parts call this diversity. Is there one example of this diversity improving quality, improving working conditions and improving health care for the elderly or people? What examples do we have of this – when we know that all the heavy users in health, all the heavy users in care, have to have public care when it comes to it hard? That's not what the privates want, because they don't make money on it. This leads me to the main point of this article, which no one else has touched on, and that is the following: The right-hand side always speaks – the Progress Party in particular, but also the Right – about taxpayers' money, that we have to use taxpayers' money wisely. But here the taxpayers' money is used to facilitate private operations, which create profits, and which are carried out by the country. And to the party for most people, who are represented here in this debate: what is it? Is it the use of taxpayers' money in a way that serves taxpayers and users? Of course not. This is neoliberalism and a form of public spending that undermines both quality, workers and the general population, because it is becoming more expensive. There is no evidence that it is cheaper to operate privately – that is, if you do not allow workers to have worse working and pay conditions, because that is what you get. That is the policy under consideration, and that is what this is all about. And now the right-wing representatives should soon go up and say why they want to spend taxpayers' money in such a way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e636	I drew because I feel the need to give some kind of explanation of vote on proposal No. 8 from Red in this case. This is the proposal on enhanced alert protection. The Labour Party will not support that proposal today, but it is not because we are opposed to strengthening the alert protection. On the contrary, we have called for this since we ourselves promoted a proposal for a representative on enhanced alert protection in December 2015. We think it has gone too long before we come up with concrete proposals that can be dealt with by the Stortinget. In this connection, I refer to the change of line in this case, where the Council of State just told me that the Stortinget got presented with a case concerning the follow-up of the Alert Committee during the spring. Then there will not only be two elements, as the proposal for Red contains, but there will be a bigger case how many elements will be seen in the context. That really means that the Red proposal is a little overtime, because it has been three years since the Stortinget dealt with our comprehensive proposal on reinforced alert protection. Our proposals were then voted down, but we will of course bring them up again when the matter comes to Stortinget during the spring. One of our proposals was reinforced protection against retaliation, similar to what Red is promoting today, and the Stortinget already decided at the time that there is a need to clarify the terms ‘responsible warning’ and ‘critical circumstances’, so it also comes to the matter that comes back to Stortinget. That is why we are voting against proposal No. 8 from Red today – because the proposal really has no purpose since things are already underway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e646	There is a need to go a little further into proposal No. 1, from the Center Party and SV. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the government to ensure that tax-funded welfare services are operated by public and non-profit actors and to provide a plan for gradual escalation of public and non-profit ownership and operation.’ As we in the Central Party see that proposal, it is a proposal that is kind of a flag paragraph. It's a statement in exactly the same way that we have in terms of full employment. Everyone sees that one can never get full employment, but no one travels the slogan ‘nearly full employment’. No, there is full employment — maritime — which is the level of ambition. What do I want with this? Well, the Center Party has no problem completing public and ideal ownership and operations with some private companies. There have always been private companies in this sector. There have been small private actors, and the small private actors have acted in such a way that they deliver good and stable quality. They want to have a regular wage for the effort they make, and – I would say – they hope for a return of capital invested that is beyond what you can get by putting the money in the bank. There are companies that have appeared in the Norwegian welfare tradition, and these companies are not a problem for the Center Party, they are on the contrary a enrichment. What is a problem now is companies à la Aleris, which are not acting in the Norwegian cultural tradition, but clearly in the American, short-term cultural tradition, where there is a requirement for profits that are not part of Norwegian businesses. That's why they have to be cut off. The centre party has ideological reasons for this – it's quality and long-term. It was said most strongly by former social minister Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa, who said that one does not put Grandma out for tender – a very precise description. What concerns people is quite different from the purchase of snow mining, construction. Snow mining, construction and construction are material things, while well-being concerns people. The public has a responsibility to care for people, and it has a responsibility to care for the most demanding care tasks. All the care services that private commercial companies do not want to carry out have the public responsibility for. We have to remember that. The public is responsible for education and it is responsible for research. So that's why we have the line that we're running here. The Group of the European People's Party supports the proposals No. 1, 2 and 3, on which we are co-sponsors, and voting against other proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e666	The representative Martin Kolberg claims that there is no example that diversity and freedom of choice have provided better quality or better services. I think you have to have been a politician for quite some time to make such a claim – if in 2019 you really believe that monopolies and unification are the solution. The same representative claims that most people don't want it. I don't think most people want to go back to the ideal society of Martin Kolberg and the party Red and Moxnes, where the state will decide everything, where a worker who is dissatisfied with his employer should not have the opportunity to change employer, where a resident who is dissatisfied with a service should not have the opportunity to have an alternative. Most people want freedom of choice. People most want diversity. We see the results – e.g. in the Mangle Home, which is often brought forward. They were innovative. They have pub, spa and restaurant. Then we see that different hospitals learn from each other. Several public, municipally driven hospitals now offer the same. That's good, because you learn from each other. The representative of Kolberg obviously talks very nicely about these monopolies, but I don't think he wants to go back to the telecommunications monopoly. This is also particularly true when politicians believe that they themselves are best placed to make the choices, and better than the citizens, while obviously the same rules should not apply to them themselves. As previously pointed out, the parents of former Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg chose a private school for him. They thought it was the best option. I think that's good. Today's party leader in the Workers' Party, Jonas Gahr Støre, has used private medical services because he thought it was best for himself and his family. Exactly the same freedom of choice wants the Progress Party to have the most people in as many areas as possible. History has shown us that having the freedom of choice, diversity and both private and municipal services that can learn from each other in an orderly way contributes to better services for the inhabitants, and it also contributes to better working conditions for the employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e677	It's kind of funny. The Labour Party called from the bourgeois examples that the commercialisation of well-being gives the innovation that citizens always talk so beautifully about, and then the Progress Party's response is to bring out the Mangle Home in Oslo, which I've visited. I have also visited the municipal owned and driven Desert Home. There they have pubs, their own wellness and spa treatments and their own colonial. Going down to the colonial and acting have become a very pleasant activity for the elderly in the municipal desert home. The resemblance to the Mangle Home is striking. The exception is that in the Desert Home they make all the meals themselves. These advances in the Desert Home are completely impossible to explain to the citizens, since there is no owner who takes profit out of the operation. I believe that the explanation of the progress we have seen on both the Desert Home and the Mangle Home is that in both nursing homes you have employees and management who will make the everyday life of the elderly the best possible. And that desire does not depend on the fact that there is a ownership far away that must have benefited from the operation. Nor was it a purchase fund that showed the way to a new and better care for the elderly in Oslo, which owned the Mangle family. No, the inspiration came from the Dutch dementia village de Hoveweyk, run by a foundation for ideal purposes. The initiative came from the Municipality of Oslo through the project ‘Better living conditions in nursing homes’, where both the Økernhämmet and the Manglerudhämmet participated. Even the money for the project, which made improvements at the Mangler family home, came from the Municipality of Oslo, not from the commercial owners. When the Progress Party has one example from the well-being of commercial ownership providing improvements, innovations and new solutions, and one example proves to be inspired by a non-profit foundation, organized by a project under the direction of the Municipality of Oslo and funded by the Municipality of Oslo, what is left, in addition to the pure ideology of the Progress Party plus a policy where the citizens' tax money allocated to care for the elderly and to welfare instead of the purpose is eliminated from the country and to owners in tax havens and in the United States? It's not for the best for most people.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e688	Through the President of the representative Wiborg, his contributions are full of adversities, but have no real examples. The missing person's home has become an example that the representative Moxnes has now placed where it belongs, namely in a good place, but not as an example of how good it is to commercialise the entire sector. For example, the representatives of the right-wing parties should focus on this. Hospitals, which now have to be narrowed down and narrowed down, while establishing private alternatives – which have to be paid through hospital budgets. It goes without saying how it works on the development of the quality and justice of the system, of course it does, because commercialization and private operations have one purpose, namely that money should be made on it, otherwise no one else would have gone into it. And I have to say, the council says here that she won't go into what's connected to Aleris. No, I have respect for that, considering the issue of the trial. But we have a government council that won't comment on the fact that they are now bought up by big, international and capitalist interests, which have one purpose: to take the profits of Norwegian taxpayers out of the country for their own ends. Is there a good, healthy and proper development of this part of the Norwegian healthcare system and of the Norwegian healthcare system? Of course it is not – if you want to take care of the genuine Norwegian, well noticed. But if one wants to facilitate international capitalism in this area, one can do so. That's what they do, that's what the government parties are sitting here in this hall doing. And I say again to the representative Wiborg, is this for the benefit of most people, or is it for the benefit of the money people most? That's of course the last one. It is liberalist ideology that characterises the government and the right parties, and that is the driving force behind the policies they set up. They try to cover themselves behind the term ‘diversity’. This is not diversity. This is economic liberalism, and they use the tax money to facilitate it. There should be a lot more to it than the opposition in this room, and they should oppose, especially in Kommune-Norway, who must bear this burden.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e699	You wonder how many times you have to repeat yourself, since I have already kept this post once, but I then stressed that there is a broad political consensus about the Norwegian solution of publicly funded health and care services, as the example from the Municipality of Oslo showed. In fact, if parent companies want profit, profit, it assumes that they provide good care services to older people, or orphans and others, or it loses the company and owners of the investments they have made. It is possible that it is difficult to understand in the Red's world of performances, but it is not a good way to try to generate profits. On the contrary, they are losing their investments. The costs of health care are wages and pensions, said the representative of Moxnes, and that is where you can squander. Yes, wages and pensions are a cost, but there are costs for all serious employers. High sick leave, overtime and poorly organised tournaments are the main challenges both in private and in particular in public institutions, and we see that the private have been controlled – or skewed, if you like – when they have entered and taken over the operation. One example asked Martin Kolberg. He got one, but I can take more. Actually, the entire outsourcing in the Municipality of Oslo until 2013 is a good example of the fact that when private entry takes over the operation and starts to make changes, it turns out in quality and user determination. But from 2013 onward, the City Council of the Christian People's Party, Aud Kvalbein, carried out its flagship project through the project of a better everyday life, after having many years of experience in putting out competition and inviting private ones in. The missing person's home is quite rightly one of the examples of it, and the Desert Home picked up the staf stick and showed it further. A third example might be Ascento Paulus, where my own grandmother lives – so I've put my grandmother on offer. There they say they got control of hourly consumption, better organised tour users and steel control on overtime use, which led to more satisfied residents, but also lower sick leave. This may indicate that those who work there are actually satisfied and not exploited and profited at the very worst of international capital forces, as it almost sounds like here. The municipal authorities follow, just to take that example as well: the major housing and treatment centre more than halved its sick leave, from 11 pst. to 5 p.m., in four years' time, without introducing a standard of living or cutting sick pay, for that matter, so that's possible. Both public and private learn from each other and copy each other, and that's the value of diversity in care, of which most people benefit.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e710	The representative Bears Moxnes has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e715	The right must listen. It is now documented how the example of the Progress Party emerged, i.e. it was ideally inspired, municipally organized and municipally funded. It is obvious that it is an advantage to have several different actors in the care that are not motivated by profit. We are to improve the conditions of the ideals, which are just swept out of the heavy commercial groups with huge financial muscles, often located in tax havens, the United States, Luxembourg and the like. It is their contribution to well-being that now threatens diversity, which competes with the ideals, and makes it more difficult to maintain a diversity of actors in elderly care, child protection and similar services. Finally, I would like to make a small request that the Christian People's Party, by voting, follow the red-greens and ensure a majority for sensible proposals, against the will of the other bourgeois parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e722	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e738	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, seven rows of replies be given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e747	The proposer requests that a sample be reduced to look at the possibilities of reaching 30 hours of normal working week, from today's 37.5 hours. The objective shall be increased flexibility and reduced working time while at the same time strengthening the right to permanent employment and other employee rights. Further emphasis is placed on a measure that expresses that most people want more leisure time instead of increased pay. At the same time, it is also wise for environmental considerations to assume that purchasing power and consumption will be reduced. It is not difficult to understand that at different stages of life there may be both desirable and need for high levels of flexibility and somewhat shorter working days. I believe that proposers have good intentions, but at the same time they overlook some significant elements and consequences of implementing such a reform. It is not the case that this has not been assessed in the past. It has been researched, tested and evaluated several times, both here and in other countries. Several attempts have been made. Some have achieved good results, others have not. Fafo has e.g. from 1996 to 1998 and from 2004 to 2005, in Oslo from 1995 to 1997 and in Kiruna from 1989 to 2006, in the report ‘Tests with 6-hour day – schemes and experiences’, funded by the LO. I would like to quote from the summary in this report. ‘The results are largely negative for the efficacy targets examined. The arguments put forward for the 6-hour trial have focused on the objectives of increasing employment, reducing sick leave, improving the working environment, improving the ability to link working time and social time, and increasing gender equality. [[...]] There are no documented safe links between the 6-hour day and reduced sick leave. This applies to all three main trials: [[Stockholm municipality, Oslo municipality, Kiruna municipality]] No association between 6 hours of work and health has been demonstrated either. [[...]] In several of the trials that were considered then and that have taken place later, there are several employees who are satisfied with reduced working hours. But it's just not enough to introduce the six-hour day when you look at the conclusions about the actual effect. In addition to the lack of coherence between trials, sick leave and health, Fafo did not find any data to support the claim for increased employment or gender equality. In recent years sustainability has become an expression we hear more and more often. Of course, it is about the environment, but also about economic sustainability. We are getting older, and expenditure is growing faster than income. How will a six-hour day affect the sustainability of the welfare society we live in? Lower labour input reduces almost all tax bases, with the exception of the country's petroleum income. The result and the economic effect are calculated. There will be a massive tax increase for families — probably not something that will help families with children, who in many cases already have a tight economic situation. This will lead to a marked increase in the costs and efficiency of businesses, which compete in a global market, which in turn could mean fewer jobs and thus affect most people and society. It will also result in a marked reduction in tax revenue, which in turn will go beyond the welfare level of others. I believe in principle that all the parties in this hall want to have a high level of well-being. Although the intentions behind the proposal can be seen as good, it is important to remember the consequences of it. It is also important to remember that since 1962 working time has been reduced from 48 hours per week for full-time jobs to 39 hours per week. If you expect holiday days, absences, overtime use, and part-time coverage, we're down to 30 hours a week. It's still the way we have to work to keep the wheels going, to produce the goods and services society needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e773	The matter is whether to set up a working time selection to make a gradual reduction in today's working time. This will include, for example: more leisure, less stress and a reduction in material consumption. It is something that the Labour Party believes are sympathetic foundations, but our assessment is nevertheless that the needs of the people and the country are more complex, and that therefore we cannot support this proposal. We in the Working Party discuss how some occupational groups can have such a stressful working day that a reduction in working time can lead to precisely these being able to do more work. One might also be able to get more people into the labour market in this way – that one has a working day within these occupational groups where one has better health and where one can have a good life while one feels that one contributes to value creation to the country. At the same time, the growth in welfare expenditure in the future is both a requirement for us to create values and for us to share them fairly, for example. by getting more people to work and securing a good working day. It is not then right to introduce or plan to introduce a general reduction in working time for absolutely all employees. In addition, our view is that work is a good thing. It's a possibility for personal growth, for chiselling, for self-realization. It's also something that strengthens the community of our society, having the network that a good job with a safe working environment is helping to provide. It also means that it is important to ensure that work is good, that it is health-promoting, that it is a serious job, so that the positive effects for people and society become reality and everyday life for everyone. In this way, this proposal is closely linked to the two issues we have discussed just now, relating to the use of more full time and not least pay and working conditions in our welfare professions. It is something that we in the Labour Party work for, and it is also they who gather the reasons why we are voting against the proposals in this proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e782	At a time when most political parties in Norway are concerned about how we can make our welfare society more sustainable in dealing with both the ageing wave, increased immigration and decreasing oil revenues, it feels a little special that we start this year with, among other things. to discuss how we are now going to start a work to figure out how we can all work much less. There is at all a lot that is a little bit strange with this proposal. First of all, it is difficult to understand the great need according to the needs of the workers. Working time in Norway is relatively short compared to other countries. We have a safe and well-regulated working life, and nine out of ten professionals state that they are satisfied or very satisfied with their work. So there's little coverage to claim that the big problem in Norwegian working life is an amount of work that makes people work half in their whole lives. For the benefit of society, it is impossible to understand the need for this proposal. We're going to need increased labour supply in the years to come to meet an ageing population. Then we need more people to work longer, not everyone to work less. And the productivity growth that comes from automation and digitisation in many industries, which is also used to justify this proposal, we are just going to need to pay for, among other things. increased demand in the health sector. Costly, this proposal may be the largest attack on the welfare state promoted in this room. The Ministry of Finance has estimated that a reduction in working time from 7.5 to 6 hours will reduce labour supply by more than 15 pst, and it will cost about 8 pst. of mainland GDP, or approximately 224 B.C.E. kr annually. There are sums that should make most people stall. But it's not just about money. It will also lead to a dramatic reduction in the supply of human resources. For example, the SSB has: estimated that, with the current organisation of the healthcare system, one in three in 2040 would have to work in the care sector to escape the older wave. We know that from before – so many people don't take education and want to work in the care sector. So we want to have big challenges in organizing ourselves differently, finding ways to put welfare technology into practice, etc. in order to address future capacity needs, with the current working time. How the proposer then believes that a further reduction in the supply of labour will solve this challenge is a mystery to me. There are also some premises on this proposal that are far from safe. For example, it is assumed that increased leisure time will result in a life course that saves the environment for emissions. That I would say is a highly uncertain prediction. Some will probably spend that time on long trips with the electric bicycle or taking care of the herbal garden, but it may also be that the proposal will lead to several weekend trips abroad by plane. It's not necessarily the economy that limits the number of travels, it could be the timing. The Nordics also spend most of their money in long-term investments, in housing. Adding to a reform that would reduce the purchasing power of the Nordics could also result in a reduction in the investment will and, instead, in a rise in consumption. It'll hardly be less CO 2 emissions of. A nice paradox in the end is that we don't need investigations or reforms to give people the opportunity to replace working time and pay with more leisure time. That possibility already exists today. It's called part-time. Most people don't think there's anything to look for, but those who agree with the Greens that they really have more than enough money in the month and would like to have a little less money in exchange for a little more leisure time, can simply choose to work less. Then they will immediately receive less income, but also more leisure time. In summary, this is a proposal that will lead to dramatic cuts in welfare services and dramatic reductions in the supply of labour. It will make Norway poorer, it will hamper our ability to convert, and it is not even certain that there will be less CO 2 emissions. It was said here that the intention of this proposal is good. I think so, too. But it is often said that the road to a less pleasant place is paved with good intentions. That is why I am pleased that this proposal is not being adopted today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e809	The centre party is opposed to the Green Party's proposal for a reform of working time, which means a gradual reduction in today's working time. It is probably implicit that one should also have lower income, but that is, in practical circumstances, also the requirement to have a higher hourly wage, in order to maintain the total income. The Green Party has not made it probable that less work will mean less revenue, and here we are at the heart of the matter. There is a balance between people's use of time for work, care and leisure and for rest, and today's working time, in the opinion of the Centre Party, provides a good balance, but at the same time we must constantly look at special arrangements for different groups of people, for example. those who have a great responsibility for care. However, it is the view of the Central Party that for those groups with high responsibilities of care, shorter working hours should rather be given priority over longer holidays. The Green Party is not represented in the Committee, but it is SV, and SV says in the comments just ahead that one sees that shorter working hours cannot be at the expense of employees’ income. So we're at the core of the real world, that less work has to require a higher hourly wage. And as many as have been concerned, entering for a higher hourly wage requires that one has a labour productivity growth in society that over time provides the basis for this higher hourly wage, and it cannot be said to be present. This is why we are in the situation that if we add to a working-time reform that involves less work, and we want to maintain the level of income that one has – which is going to be a strong demand – it will have to involve a more brutal, short-term harvest of natural resources in order to get enough income to pay the costs of society. Because, as has always been the case, social accounts have to rise. There must be a balance between consumption and production, and here we are at the centre, and this is the reason why the Centre Party cannot support the Green Party's reform of working time on shorter working hours, which we have seen in experience will have to be compensated for by a higher hourly wage, for which there is no coverage in society.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e818	This proposal aims to make working life move towards a six-hour working day. The Socialist Left Party is for a six-hour working day, but we don't think that the Stortinge can initiate this to any particular greater extent than in long-term trial schemes. This is because we are strong supporters of the negotiating institute, among others. working time is one of the largest ownership of the social partners. We think that a six-hour normal working day is something we should have as our goal, but especially in collaboration with the trade unions and at the rate to which they are ready to negotiate. All previous reductions in working time have been the result of negotiations, and for SV it is very important that this principle remains. In addition, it is important for SV to state that we do not want to cut the salary of people in order to get a six-hour working day. In this case, we suggest that test media be made available that can be used in cooperation with the social partners for this purpose in order to further reveal the consequences and results of such a scheme. With this, I submit my proposal on the matter, and in addition, SV will support loose proposal No. Two, five, six.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e825	The representative, Mr Solfrid Lerbreck, has presented the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e830	We say that ‘time is money’. But in everyday life, time is primarily for most of us – time for what matters to us, time for family and friends, time for walking in the woods, for volunteer work, or for developing us, yes to play PlayStation if that's what we want. It also turns out that the population wants more time. Among other things, a nationwide poll conducted by InFact in 2016 shows that half of Norway’s population would rather have more leisure time than higher wages. And that's not so nice. The cross-pressed everyday life that many of us experience in our modern society is struggling with the quality of life and our health. They do not want more leisure because they do not like the job, or because the job is not important to them, but because they live under a pressure. In the new year of the nation, the Prime Minister asked us all to have more children. The Greens don't think the smartest way then is to start off on a spreadsheet, but to look at what most people feel they need to lie at ease in life to have children. Because it is a big decision, and one should have time and profit – over time – for the child being born. The last thing to do then is to spread fear of 43 hours of work in the future, as the prime minister did on late summer last year. Our welfare depends on the taxes paid by ordinary employees, says the Prime Minister. It's easy to agree with. But she's kissing 25 billion. taxes – mainly to the richest – in the year’s budget. So the only solution for the government to finance welfare in the future – and the government's tax cuts – is to work longer days for several years and have more children. The Greens would rather work for a more inclusive and fair working life, where we have increased flexibility for workers and also more leisure time. We think it will make more people feel good at work, get time to develop and work longer. We have put forward a proposal to set up a working time committee, which this House will vote on today. The committee shall assess how normal working hours can be reduced from 37.5 hours to 30 hours, while improving employees’ rights and increasing the flexibility of working time through different stages of their careers. I would like to make it clear that the Greens wholeheartedly support the fight against involuntary part-time. At the same time, we also see many people who in some phases of life need stronger rights to have a part-time job for a period of time. We therefore propose to extend the statutory right to part-time work as part of making working life more life-stage adaptable. I am pleased that SV proposes a trial of reduced working time in several sectors. But I am amazed that all the other parties are clearly rejecting our proposal to combine and evaluate experiences from Norway and the rest of the world with reductions in working time, and instead stand here in the hall and on their own with a free pen trying to bring together those results very trendy. One such combination as the Green Party has proposed, and which is being voted down today, is also what the LO wants a plan on how to move forward with reductions in working time to be based. So I still have a hope that especially the Workers' Party will consider voting for just that in this room here today. We have a labour market that changes very quickly. It requires increased opportunities for continuing training in the workplace. What also happens is that a lot of jobs are now automated away at record speed. As information director Tom Staavi in Finance Norway said: Digitalisation eats jobs. It's not certain that there are people in work who want to be missing in the future, but work enough for the people. Furthermore, we know that many people are not able to stand in the full-time job because the jobs are too heavy. Shorter working hours in some professions could lead to more people actually working full-time, and other things being employed to retirement. So it could be that tax revenue is not reduced so much by shorter working hours and more flexibility for the employee. It may be the key for more people to work and pay taxes instead of being forced into unemployment benefits or sick pay. And that's what the Greens want to figure out, in line with the large part of the population also state themselves that they want to. Then I can also bring up the proposals we have made.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e858	The representative of Une Bastholm has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e863	This year it's 100 years since the Storting decided eight hours of work. Since then, we have become far more productive and far richer as a country, but much of the wealth has fallen to a small, economic elite. We believe that to be unfair. It is now time to further reduce working hours, so that increased prosperity in the form of shorter working hours also benefits ordinary workers. There are many reasons why we need a shorter working time in Norway. First of all, families need it to make the days go up. It is increasingly common – and it is a good thing – that both parents work full time. It is a desirable development that both jobs, in order to ensure economic equality, but it is often the case that one person, and usually the mother, goes into a position to get the time to when you have a child. This maintains the economic differences between women and men, but with a six-hour working day, both can work full time and at the same time have enough time for children and for the job, the housework, at home. We know that women are overrepresented among part-time workers and also serve much less on average than men. Six-hour day will provide the many people who work involuntary part-time, who are mainly women, with a wage they can live off. Secondly, the environment needs us to implement a six-hour day reform. Instead of increasing private consumption even more, we should give priority to shorter working hours. It will be essential to manage the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. Thirdly, a lot of people who are on the job need a shorter working time, because a lot of people still have jobs that are stressful to physical health, not least those who work in health care, which unfortunately are among the most health-damaging professions, i.e. caring for the elderly and those who are sick among us. They need not least to have a lower labour pressure and to be able to work longer if working hours are reduced. It's obvious that six hours of normal work will cost a lot, but it'll also make a lot of savings. With a six-hour working day, many will be able to take better care of their health, many will not get tired when they are in their 50s or early 60s. According to the right-hand side, it's probably that many people who are unsatisfied are not really 'will' enough to work, that they need so-called incentives, as Right-wing people say, to get to work. This, of course, is just nonsense. Those who are most disadvantaged are those who work in health and care, mainly women, because these professions are too heavy for work health and go out on both back, shoulders and knees. We have to put pressure on the employees, and then the six-hour day will be important to be able to run out and get a more humane working life. Then we see in the private sector: Tine at Heimdal in Trondheim has had a full six-hour working day for her employees since 2006, and it has been a huge success: increased productivity, less sick leave, better well-being at work. It's also been better for the bottom line, so even right-wing people should realize that this is a good reform for society, and even private sector owners can live well with a six-hour day. Torkil Bakken, who is the chief defense officer at Tine Heimdal, said the following: ‘It is possible to rest or to be social after work and to get to bed in a timely manner.’ It must be a good thing, then, that more workers in Norway too can experience. Red is proposing today to legislate for 37.5 hours of work. Then the law will be in line with what is in the collective agreement. It is a first important step on the road to shorter working hours and also important in the fight against social dumping, to prevent the exploitation of labour, not least what we see in our working life, the exploitation of many who come from Eastern Europe. That is why I would like to take up the Red's proposal and ask for support to get a statutory 37.5 hours working week.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e891	Then the representative Björn Moxnes has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e896	The proposer wants the government to carry out a gradual reduction in normal working time to 30 hours per week. Of course, I share the rapporteur's wish to facilitate an inclusive working life and a good balance between working life and private life. The average working time in Norway has been significantly reduced since the mid-1990s. The normal working hours fixed for tariffs have declined from 46 hours in 1962 to 37.5 hours after 1987. In addition, the number of days off per year has increased by 10 days. The reduction in working time has been substantially driven by the social partners. Today, working time in Norway is relatively short compared with other countries. Many have the possibility of flexibility, and the working time rules of the work environment and collective agreements allow most people to plan their lives in a good way. There is also a right to leave, for example. for care activities, and a total of nine out of ten professionals declare to be satisfied or very satisfied with their work. We are now facing demographic changes that challenge the welfare state. Ageing of the population places increasing burden on care in the years to come, leading to higher expenditures on pensions and health and care services. Today it is approx. two persons aged over 67 per 10 persons aged between 20 and 66. It is estimated that by 2060 there will be about four older persons per ten active persons. In this situation, the government believes that shorter working hours for everyone are the wrong way to go. Such a reduction will reinforce the challenges of funding the welfare state. It will also reinforce the problems of labour shortages in Norwegian working life, among others. in the field of health and care. It's worth remembering that in the situation we're in now, there's demand for labour in almost all industries across the country. The problem is to find enough people; the problem is not what the representative Bastholm says in his proposal. Calculations by the Ministry of Finance suggest that a reduction in working time from 7.5 to 6 hours per day will reduce labour supply by just over 15 pst. If this is to be covered by increasing the taxation of households, the average tax rate will have to be increased by 8 pst. In addition, it is also uncertain whether such a reduction in working time will actually lead to more people entering work. Those who are unemployed or out of work do not necessarily have the qualifications appropriate to those jobs where there is a need to hire more people. On this basis, I agree with the majority of the Committee that it is not appropriate to consider proposals for reducing normal working time to 30 hours per week. With regard to the proposal to ‘strengthen the right to permanent employment, including for temporary agency employees’, I will refer to the amendments to the Working Environment Act that entered into force on 1 January of this year. In particular, the new definition of permanent employment shall ensure that permanent staff are guaranteed predictability of the scope of work and remuneration. This implies that, without such predictability, a contract of employment will not be legally permanent, either in the manning industry or in other industries. The government is following developments in the manning industry and the impact of the new rules and therefore considers that there is no need to assess other measures now.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e915	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e920	At the 2018 national meeting in Right, a decision was made to allow more work to be done during the high season, without exceeding the annual hours in the work environment law. The reason for this was that a wanted full-year job development was full-year pay. I guess it has to mean that it requires a change in law to do this, otherwise a decision would not be taken on it at a national meeting. My question is quite simply: is it such that the Council of State is planning to submit proposals for increased working time, in line with the decision at the National Council of the Right?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e925	It is correct that the Court of Justice’s meeting in 2018 adopted several proposals relating to working life. Now it's the government platform we're dealing with, and there's no decision on this. There is a decision in the government platform that we should follow up the work of the Working Time Committee. We've started that, and then we're all sitting right now waiting for a new platform that might come in during the day, and then we'll see what it says. First of all, I will now follow up on what is in the common government platform.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e930	As the representative Moxnes was also involved in his statement, we see that the relationship between what the owners of capital are left with, and what the workers are left with, is becoming increasingly skeptical. We see that the capital owners, the owners of the jobs, are left with a much larger share of the value creation than before. Then we hear that the government councils and government parties reject the fact that a redistribution of working time and less working time for the workers is a way they want to use to just get a better distribution of the value creation that happens in society. Then my question is: what other instruments do the government and government see for themselves to achieve a better distribution of the values that are created, and that, after all, are very large, but are more and more divided?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e935	This question may be a little side to what the proposal we are dealing with, really, is about reducing working time for everyone. I want to refute the premise that the economic growth of recent years has only benefited a small elite. I would like to remind you that wage growth in Norway has been staggering over many years, and the wage growth in Norway has also been much higher than it has been in our partners and natural trading partners. It's been a little bit different in recent years, but it's caused by oil falls and other things. The standard of living and the growth of income have been exemplary for all groups. Then there's a discussion every year, among other things. in the course of the wage negotiations, on how the distribution of profits in the enterprises should be. The wage negotiations are often a result of the company's carrying capacity, and I believe that it is also the responsibility of the parties to determine how much of the growth is to be allocated to wages and what is to be taken out in return. There I have full confidence that the parties... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e944	Kari Elisabeth Kaski – please.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e949	This is not at all on the side of the case we are dealing with today. This is on the contrary in the middle of it, because a little bit of the basis why SV also supports a reform that takes us to shorter working hours, the six-hour day, and also proposes more trial projects with it, is that we see that we can distribute value creation and profit in a better way, and take out both the productivity growth we see, and also the profit in terms of just shorter working hours. So it just goes to the nucleus of the distribution between work and capital. It's true that that distribution is crooked today, and so it's interesting to ask ourselves how we're going to get a better redistribution. Therefore, I am a little surprised that you only look at wages and salaries, and not at all willing to discuss how to collect them in shorter working hours.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e956	After all, there has already been a major tax reform. Tax may be one of the most important ways of redistributing taxes, such as taxes on wealth, dividends or other tax rules. After all, the size has already had a large tax reform, which has been a relatively broad majority to implement. What we're dealing with now is whether or not we're going to reduce working time. The government believes that we shouldn't. It is also a paradox in many ways that we dealt with a matter a little earlier today where we wanted to use the law to increase the employment rate to more people, thus helping to increase the number of jobs. So this proposal is about the opposite, about using the law to make more people work less. I believe that it is more important to answer the issue of the first Doc. The 8's more than the last.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e963	I want to start by saying that there is obviously a misunderstanding here, because this proposal is not just about reducing working time. It is also about creating a more flexible working life, and we want to assess how to strengthen workers' rights, including: also strengthen the right to full time for those who need it, but at the same time create a working life where more people can work longer, so that we take care of our welfare state. The right has notified a complete crisis every time a reduction in working time has been proposed, a reform of the labour market that benefits workers, earlier in history as well, and they continue in the same way here today. In fact, it's done well before, and there's nothing magical about the limit of working time we've achieved today. We have to take it inward that many people are under pressure over time in today's world of work. Many people get sick and find it difficult to go to work. I think the government is locked in thinking that the prerequisite for a sustainable economy is that people work more and more. My question is whether the Council of State agrees that we need to do more in order to get a more inclusive working life, and that this for some will also mean getting a more life-stage-adapted working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e973	I think that the representative Lundteg made a glaring statement on the lack of coherence in the proposal. To reduce working time, it must be financed either by cutting wages or by increasing production. It's a fact you can't get away from. I believe that the way to go is completely wrong, at a time when we will need more labour and depend on more jobs, if we are to be able to finance the well-being that we all appreciate so much. The reform of pensions is one of the measures we have initiated to ensure greater sustainability. With the demographic development we have, there is a huge imbalance between the number of people to be cared for or helped by the welfare state and the number of people to be involved in and finance it. Then the answer is not that everyone should work less – the answer is that everyone actually has to work more, if we're going to be able to finance the well-being that I think we all appreciate. The alternative is cut.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e980	The cord shift is over. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox As has been decided in the past, we are now going to vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e1004	A total of three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1 and 2, by Hadia Tajik on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 3, from Hadia Tajik on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party First of all, there will be a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that all the municipalities of the country adopt a full-time culture strategy and to establish a state financial support scheme for full-time and part-time projects.’ Red is in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e1037	Alternatively, between the recommendation and the proposal No. 1 and 2, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for review of the Working Environment Act and for proposals to ensure full time’. Proposal No. 2 sounds: «The government is asked to strengthen the right to full-time employment in the Environmental Protection Act by requiring that the employer be required to assume his/her need for part-time employment.» The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e1065	A total of eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Per Olaf Lundtigen on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposed no. 2 and 3, by Leif Audun Sande on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposed no. 4-7, from Solfrid Lerbreck on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 8, from Bears Moxnes on behalf of Red First of all, there will be a vote on proposal No. 8 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to present legislative proposals to replace the requirement of a ‘responsible procedure’ by clarification in the legal text of the warning procedure, as stated. working environment Act § 2 A-1 and strengthening protection against retaliation in case of warning.» [[2]] The Socialist Left and the Greens have already supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e1097	Proposal No. 7, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Instead of this regulation, the government asks the government to repeal the co-delivery regulation, so that the enterprises use the right to enter into an agreement with a trade union with the right to set up or apply to the Labour Inspectorate, cf. the fourth to seventh paragraphs of Section 10-12 of the Environmental Protection Act.’ Red is in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e1114	Proposal No. 4-6, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to determine and review whether the working conditions, including staffing, are in line with the legal and contractual relationships of commercial welfare actors in the health and care sector, and to inform the Storting appropriately about this and to terminate the agreements on which this is based.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to investigate how breaches of law and contractual relationships can be more effectively identified in welfare services and the consequences of such breaches. In this respect, the government is asked to assess whether the imposition of fines should be granted equivalent to a share of the turnover of the establishment. ‘... Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that legislative proposals are put in place to strengthen the protection of alerts and to ensure that proposals are made for a national alert agent in the context of the treatment of NOO 2018:6.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e1143	Proposal No. 1, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the government to ensure that tax-funded welfare services are operated by public and non-profit actors and to provide a plan for gradual escalation of public and non-profit ownership and operation.’ Red is in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e1167	Alternatively, between the recommendation and the proposal No. 2 and 3 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that actors receiving government grants for the operation of welfare services have pay and working conditions that are no lower than those of public enterprises.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to return a notification to the Storting where fines and infringements related to infringements of labour law and regulations are reviewed.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e1195	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Solfrid Lerbreck on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposed no. 2–5, from Une Bastholm on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA proposal No 6, from the Bears Moxnes on behalf of Red First of all, there will be a vote on proposal No. 6 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to propose that 37.5 hours of the working week be statutory, so that the working hours of the Working Environment Act are equal to the normal working hours of the collective bargaining agreements.» The Socialist Left and the Greens have already supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e1224	Proposal No. 2 and 5, from the Greens' Environment Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to set up a working time committee to assess the basis for a gradual reduction in today’s working time with objectives of increased flexibility for workers and increased leisure and quality of life in Norway.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to compile and evaluate experience from national and international trials on reduction of working time in different sectors and sectors, including six hours of day or 30 hours of work.’ The Socialist Left and Red have already supported the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e1248	Proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to launch long-term short-term work trials in several sectors. The tests should be carried out in cooperation with the social partners.’;» The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e1272	Alternatively, between the recommendation and the proposal No. 3 and 4 from the Green Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to give the Bureau a mandate to propose, inter alia, how to gradually reduce normal working time from the current level of 37.5 hours to 30 hours, while improving employees’ rights and increased flexibility in working time through different stages of their careers. Such a labour-time reform shall be developed in cooperation with the social partners and assumed to be introduced over a longer period of time by increasing productivity in the economy mainly in terms of increased leisure time and quality of life instead of increasing wages.’» [[10-20 years]] Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to make proposals to extend the statutory right to part-time and to strengthen the right to permanent employment, including for temporary agency employees.’ Red has already given its support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e1295	We go to case no. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e1328	We go back to case no. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e1346	The government is pursuing a wolf policy that is contrary to the Storting's decision on stockpiles and that has major consequences for people both inside and outside the wolf zone. The wolf population is at its highest ever after the wolf has settled in Norway, and is increasing for every year running. In the winter of 2017–2018, at least 115 wolves were registered in full or in part in Norway. There were registered puppies in eight Norwegian revirs and five border revirs, and it is far above the Storting stock target of a total of four to six coals. In addition, the 28 hills that were born on Swedish territory, which are largely close to the Norwegian border and the Norwegian wolf zone. The current predatory policy is based on a two-fold objective, with a basic principle of prioritising predators in some zones and grazing activities in others, but government policies are now going hard beyond the objective of ensuring good conditions for grazing. As a result of an increased wolf population, we have also suffered more and more serious attacks on livestock in recent years. In pasture-priority areas of the North-Easterdal, grazing users experienced an acute wolf attack in the summer of 2018 that occurred over several months and led to the loss of at least 836 sheep. It was not the first time the tragedy hit them, even in 2016 the wolf was herded in the Rendalen, but then with a loss of nearly 600 animals. In 2017, there was major damage to Hadeland, Toten and Hurdal, where one wolf killed several hundred sheep and lambs and caused damage for at least 9 million. kr. The difference between the herrings in the Østerdalen and Oppland and Akershus is that grazing users in Oppland and Akershus were compensated for their losses by an exceptional compensation scheme, while grazing users in the Østerdalen were not fully compensated for their losses. Thus, the government and the government of Elvesuen have ordered farmers in the Østerdalen to bear much of the financial loss of acute and exceptional predatory attacks and of the government's predatory management. It appears to be totally unfair and unfair that individuals and the local population should bear the costs of predatory policies, which are the responsibility of the State. The programme of the Party of Progress is as follows: ‘the State shall be required to pay full compensation to landowners, traders or others who suffer losses as a result of its overall predatory management.’;» [[...]] But the policy that the Progress Party is leading with the Left in government, it's quite another, and there's little reason to believe that a new party is getting better into a majority government. It is incomprehensible that the department and Elvesuen do not want to fully compensate the farmers in the North East Valley for their losses. The attacks were an acute and extraordinary incident in the grazing priority area, and then it is not just the loss of the sheep itself that remains as a cost and a burden for the grazing user and the community. There are also expenditures on lost outcrops by animals that have not been on land for five weeks. There is compensation for exceptional supervision, including driving costs, in addition to that covered by applicable compensation schemes. There are also additional costs arising from early sinking and home grazing, which are not already covered by current compensation schemes. One important point is that expenditure is not only charged to those who actually prove to have lost sheep, but also to those who are grazing or farmers with sheep in the mountain, who have to spend a lot of resources on searching and supervision before the extent of the damage has been resolved. In a letter to the Ministry of Climate and Environment on 23 August 2018, Norway's Bondelag, Norsk Bonde- und Småbrugerlag and Norsk Sau and Geit asked that the sheep farmers in the North East Valley be compensated to the extent that the sheep farmers in Oppland, Akershus and Oslo were fully covered in 2017. However, grazing users received full compensation for the additional costs of the 2018 wolf attacks. And here it becomes really interesting and even more incomprehensible, because in its rejection, the Ministry of Climate and Environment explains it, among other things. with: ‘The loss of sheep to wild game in the Østerdalen occurs regularly over time, unlike in Hadeland, where the situation was more exceptional.’ [[...]] The attacks that we are now talking about have occurred in grazing priority areas, where it is not meant to be predators, but sheep. When the Council of State Ola Elvestuen visited the North East Valley in the summer of 2018, he clearly said that in pasture-priority areas it should be grazing animals. It must be understood that the farmers who are not required to charge losses to predators in their operations. However, when predators end up taking grazing animals in pasture priority areas, the predatory game agreement must be followed and full compensation must be provided. It is completely unreasonable that the farmers should be left to pay the bill for extraordinary costs associated with it. The wording of the rejection may appear to be an admission that the wolf population is too large, that grazing priority areas can thus be lost, and that the juvenile area of the wolf and the residence of the wolf in practice is extended by the government without their permission. If predator attacks like last year continue year after year without shooting wolves, and without compensating for the real economic losses, the consequence will be that we cannot use the field, which is perhaps our most environmentally friendly and sustainable way of producing food. The peasants will have to stop the drift, people lose their livelihoods and their livelihoods. In the north-eastern valley, foreign resources are a very important part of the production base, and a whole of 60 pst. of Hedmark’s grazing animals in the suburbs are just in the north-east valley. This is due, inter alia, to: that large parts of the southern Hedmark are wolvesone, where predatory priority must be given, and where it is not possible to have sheep on the outback. We've also seen it in previous situations. Among other things, in 2002 and 2004, there was a major predatory attack in southern Hedmark, where there was still sheep on the outback. After that, the sheep team was quickly closed because it was impossible for farmers to keep on over time without predictability for their operations and without one could be sure that the sheep were safe, and that one could greatly sank the same number of sheep that had been released in the spring. There is a human factor in this matter that the Council of State has to take inwards, because there are no farmers who can live over time with the enormous burden, both psychologically and economically, of such attacks. We're talking about hours of supervision and extra work, and we're talking about uncertainty and unforeseeability of operations, when you can't be sure to keep the crew after the end of the grazing season. Focusing on land use is very good climate policy, good resource use, good industrial policy and, above all, good cultural policy. Unfortunately, however, the Council of State and the Government are making the opposite point when time and again putting the burden on farmers and communities of national predatory policies. I have then come to the question: Will the Council follow the principle of equality, so that grazing users in the north-east valley are granted full compensation for additional costs in line with the grazing users in Hadeland?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e1390	Wolves harm domestic animals and domestic animals in Norway and, in some cases, wolves can harm and kill a large number of grazing animals. Of course, the situation is difficult for grazing users affected by severe losses. However, the situation is far from being as dramatic as it is often produced as it is. So to the matter: The damage situation in Hadeland, Toten and Gran in 2017 and in the North East Valley in 2018 does not in any way in itself provide a basis for saying that the wolf population in Norway is too large, especially because these are situations where the wolf immigrated from Sweden has done damage. It is a fact that wolves from the wolf zone do little damage in grazing priority areas. Nor is it the case that grazing users suffer unfair financial losses as a result of wolves. We have very good arrangements to prevent farmers from suffering financial losses as a result of having predatory game in Norway. It is important to look at the background to the two mentioned injury situations and how State instruments have contributed to this. To take the financial arrangements first: the interpellant gives the impression that no compensation has been granted for extra costs in the north-east valley last summer. Reality is another. Pastoral users in the north-east have been covered by a large proportion of their preventive expenditure in 2018. The way in which funds from the grant scheme are used shall be clarified in advance with the State. It is not up to each person to decide what the money is spent on, and then afterwards to send the bill to the state. In this way, the State loses control of costs and the implementation of measures that have sought to be effective. Such a prior clarification of the use of money also ensures the principle of equality. Further questions are asked about why the situation in Hadeland, Toten and Gran in 2017 was managed differently from that in the North East Valley. If you look at the loss in isolation, I agree that there are similarities between the two damage situations. At the same time, there are clear differences that led to the situation being treated as an exceptional case in 2017. We have been very clear on this in our communication on the outside throughout 2018. In March 2018, national rates for home grazing and early sinking were adopted to ensure predictability for all grazing users. The national rates will prevent new exceptional cases, as we experienced in 2017. The rates are therefore adapted precisely to situations such as those in the north-east valley. The feedback from grazing users in the north-east valley to Fylksmannen is that they are largely satisfied with the grant scheme and the follow-up by the County State. There is reason to give honey to all those involved for good cooperation in order to reduce the loss of grazing animals. This means that for the North East, we are following the current system, and that no further compensation is being given now. It is also important not to mix the compensation scheme with the grant scheme. The grant scheme is often particularly important for those who have not suffered loss of predatory game but who believe there is an imminent risk of predatory wildlife damage. In this case, it is important to receive grants for, for example: early immersion of sheep and home pasture. On the other hand, grazing users who are killed or injured by predatory game receive full compensation for losses and the costs of accompanying animals as provided for in the replacement regulation. As regards the interpellant’s remark that there should be no losses in pasture priority areas, we all agree that grazing animals should be given priority in such areas. But occasionally there will be damage that cannot be avoided. It is now that there is largely a wolf immigrated from Sweden that causes damage in Norwegian pastures. This was the case in both the damage situations that the interpellant has highlighted. It is therefore not possible to imagine that predatory game cannot appear in grazing priority areas. So far, research has not found a link between increased losses outside the wolf zone and increased wolf numbers within the wolf zone. A report from the Inland College concludes that the number of young people in the wolf zone has a minimal impact on the loss of grazing animals in the outland of South Norway. Thus, the injury situation does not in itself imply that the wolf population is too large. This is a central point that needs to be remembered when we talk about wolves. Because of the proximity of the area to Sweden, we must therefore expect the wolf to wander into the Østerdalen every year. We can never be sure of this. This year, the Government increased the grant scheme by 10 million. kr. These funds will in particular be linked to finding long-term solutions for people in the north-east valley. We will do so in cooperation between the predatory and agricultural authorities and the farmers concerned. In addition, the government has strengthened the State's nature oversight by 5 million. kr. This means that several types of damage can be increased at the same time as follow-up. A guide will also be developed to ensure even more professional and effective harm-reduction trials. These measures will further reduce the loss of sheep to predatory game. No government will be able to assure itself that wolves wander from Sweden and do damage in Norwegian pastures. Although there will always be potential for improvement, I believe that the government and the administration have followed up the two mentioned damage situations in 2017 and 2018.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e1422	In its statement, the Council of State shows that there is no link between predator management at national level and these damage. I disagree. I show you, among other things: to the Council of State believes that we should primarily prevent attacks. On April 26, this year, there was a wolf in the area where major damage was found. There was a request for permission for killing on this wolf while there was still trace snow. It was refused. It would have been a prevention measure. Instead, the killing permit was granted only on 20 May, as it was no longer track snow. It was very, very difficult and time consuming to carry out the killing work. Furthermore, the Council of State shows that grazing users have been compensated for their losses. It is correct that they have been compensated for some losses, but not all costs. Substantial non-compensated expenditure still remains chargeable to individual livestock owners. I'll comment on some of these in more detail. In the case of compensation for herds without loss or loss of a few animals, it is important to recognise that grazing is carried out collectively, it is organised in pastures, while compensation is closely linked to the number of animals lost for the individual, i.e.: the obligation to take part in the supervision and search of the grazing area when in an accident or in an attack situation. It is a work of solidarity that is being carried out to limit the damage and to detect the extent of the damage, regardless of whether or not one is affected. In this way – there are several examples of this – people who have put down a huge amount of work and have had a lot of money with it do not get compensated at all because it turns out that they have no or very few lost animals themselves, while others on the pasture get the loss of the animals. The Ministry emphasises that the hours of exceptional supervision were higher in the north-east valley than in Uppland and Akershus, and that it distinguishes the situations. First of all, it shows how serious the attack in the north-east valley was, and how great a geographic distance we're talking about. Then there was another significant difference between the two situations: In Hadeland, the Food Authority sent out a very early notice that there could be an infringement of the Animal Welfare Act to release grazing animals. It was then stopped getting away. It was also given a NOK rate in compensation per day as compensation for not being able to get away. In the north-eastern valley, most of the animals had already been released on pasture when the attacks started. In addition, you didn't have many choices, because it was also dry last summer. This meant that you couldn't have the animals on your home pasture, because it would lead to that you wouldn't have a feed base for winter feed. I am pleased to see and hear the rest of the inter-pelling debate and hope that the Council of State can still turn around in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e1437	I still want to claim that we have good arrangements in Norway. In the case of the compensation scheme for losses – i.e. in the north-east valley – you follow the usual rules and provide full compensation. The discussion is about the grant scheme. For the grant scheme, too, the only requirement we have is to have contact with the State, so that the State can have an understanding of the coordinated actions that are being carried out. There is a readiness at the County Council to make a decision within a very short period of time in the event of an acute loss situation. There must be contact with the State, both in order to have a comprehensive view of the measures taken, and also in order to have an idea of the amount of the costs incurred. It was claimed in the main post that the government did not follow a predatory policy in line with Stortingets. I would argue that the government is following Storting's predatory policy: we are following the two predatory game likes, we are following the majority decision on wolf, and we are following the Nature Diversity Act and the Berne Convention. This is the basis for the whole of the predatory game policy. When we look at the number of young people, there has been an increase in the number of wolves in Norway if we look back to the 1990s and until today. It's a population of four to six young people. Last year, with two outlets of two flocks, there were 8.5 young people. As far as it's registered this year, it's at 6.5 young people. It can happen more when we know more about the numbers that are there. At the same time, from 2013 until now, we have seen a reduction in the loss of sheep to predators, based on the policy, the two-part objective adopted by the Stortinget. So we can achieve the goals we have. And within the wolf zone, we see – according to NIBIO figures – that in recent years there has also been an increase in the number of sheep and the number of use, with much more land and not land, which is also a consequence of the policy pursued. I believe that the replacement and subsidies to the North East Valley are given according to the rules we have. We have good arrangements in Norway, and we have schemes that do not rely on exceptions in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e1450	Thanks to the interpellant and the representative for addressing this matter, which is clearly a justice requirement for non-discrimination. But before we can just focus on the matter in question in the region that I myself come from, we can take one step back. This is a day when there's a lot of talk about food and sustainability, and nothing can be more sustainable than exploiting local land resources that will go to play unless we have grazing animals. I will make some important arguments as to why it will only be more forward-looking to be able to feed throughout our country in the next few years. We know, with more recent understanding and knowledge, that by having an active grazing industry and keeping the cultural landscape in order, we can take care of a really large part of what is actually a rare and sometimes endangered biodiversity in Norway, with both rare insects and plant species. In addition, it turns out that Norwegian food production, with scattered animal herds, is very, very wise in terms of low drug use. Worldwide, antibiotic resistance will be a major health problem. In addition, it is only by exploiting grass and grazing that we can ensure adequate self-sufficiency of agricultural food in Norway. In total, this indicates that we must take this matter seriously, and we must ensure that the decision of the Storting is followed up. It's not long since we had a big mark outside the Storting with a lot of people who pointed out that they were for the Storting's decision – in predator management and for stocking purposes – to be implemented. This concrete event in the North East Valley was unfortunately a disaster that we could see coming beyond winter, by finding traces of wolf on snow in several parts of the Baltic Valley. I even asked the state council written questions relating to several extra wolves that were found, in addition to what was thought to be the population. Then the answer was that you did not have a plan for how it might be taken out. It is important to take this issue into account – and learn from this issue – that prevention measures must be given high priority in winter, when we actually have the opportunity to prevent so much suffering for animals and not least a difficult situation for people, as we are set to represent here. One of the local populace who has described the problem is the Vice-President of Engerdal, one of the municipalities of Hedmark and what is now becoming the Great Inland. He represented the former Left, but he joined in shutting down the local party recently. His reasoning was quite simple: it was about a lack of district policy and prospects that was gone. He said it so concretely that «the wolf case was the drop that was asked to flow over». By extension, he explained to the Eastlander that it was quite unimaginable to have to run a campaign ‘for a party that is talking to my village in the middle of the street’. That's what I think is a very fresh speech from a populace. But the main problem is that we have others in the government apparatus, including the Prime Minister himself, who, after the Hadeland summer, gave the impression that now practice would change. But unfortunately, we have only seen more of the failure to comply with the Storting decision. So from now on, we have to be sure that this is the last time we've been outside the Storting and told you that Storting's decision is to be followed. It has to be a matter of course.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e1467	Thank you to the interpellant, who addresses a matter that is very important for those who are affected. This interpellation clearly points out that judgement, legislation and regulation are being scrapped together and creates uncertainty and poor predictability in predator management. When it is said that the loss of wild game in the Oesterdalen occurs regularly over time, unlike in Hadeland – as pointed out by the interpellant – where there was a more exceptional situation, it will in practice mean that the whole of the Oesterdalen will gradually become a wolf reserve or a wolf zone. For us in the Center Party and for people living in the countryside, these are the concepts that are designed to manage. For us, ‘grape priority areas’ means that there are areas where grazing animals are to be provided, so that one can produce food and maintain important cultural landscapes. Everything else will lead to the addition of additional areas where predators, here wolves, are considered more important than grazing animals and, in an enlarged sense, but very real, housing and nutrition. Unfortunately, legislation, regulations, zones and management plans have become a grey zone where practices change from situation to situation. New wordings and wordings provide a bureaucratic input into what should be practices that are being clarified at the lowest possible level. Full compensation within pasture priority areas, as in the North-East valley, should be very curative. There are such things that we now experience, that depress and break grazing and cause human frustration and suffering. When you experience that you repeatedly stick your head in the wall, it will eventually be enough. It is extremely serious, and here we have a national responsibility. In practice, when people get away and do not graze, the predatory zone is expanded – they are being replaced by those who have originally used these areas for grazing. I want to show you some examples of unforeseeability in predatory game management, which makes it difficult for people to comply and trust in the decisions that are made at all times. Last year, the Council of State stopped the proposal to extend the wolf's act outside the wolf's zone by one month. The reason for the rejection was that one could risk killing so-called genetically important wolves, which was a completely new and reconstructed concept in Norwegian predator policy. In a letter sent to all the country's statesmen and the eight regional surveyors, the Ministry of Climate and Environment asked the Ministry of the Environment to test stripping wolves for DNA testing before they could possibly be taken out of harm traps. In practice, it is challenging, and in some cases genetic status is difficult to clarify in advance. That's what you really live with. So this is not good governance. This is just a whole bunch of bureaucratic concepts that can't be translated into practical hunting. This, of course, made it more difficult to take out the wolves that experience has done the most harm, which, of course, turned out to be in practice – people knew it in advance. As has been said here: An inter-municipal hunting team in the North East had to wait for almost four weeks from the first application and refusal until they were allowed to take out a wolf – which in the meantime did great damage. The choice of animals that were decided in winter to be taken out inside the wolf zone also appears to be something random. People in the vicinity of the Slago River had apparently lived longer with the burden than those who live in Hobøl and Manken. Who knows who has lived the longest with the load in the next round? The decision was also taken in response to the recommendation of the predators, who thought that all three flocks should be removed to meet the stock target. I would also like to mention an example from the bear management, with a prerequisite that should not be changed. 2018 became a year of great loss to bear in Trøndelag, especially in the areas of Namskogan, Rørvik, Grong and Snåsa. The Directorate for the Environment now believes that the management area is too small and will look into the management plan of the local game subject, with the aim of changing it. It was the Stortinget that set both the stock and the frames. Now there's a letter from the Environment Directorate that's changing this. In practice, this is the way the administration operates today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e1482	All of us who have had grazing animals know that when you have grazing animals, you are happy in animals. And when you're going to use the field and you're going to let go of your animals, you're going to go see them, you're going to see how things go – and you hope it goes well. That's why it's scary when we discuss compensation schemes and all the economics around grazing animals, to think that if only the compensation schemes are good, you'll continue to want to live with grazing animals over time. It's actually completely wrong, because years after, if you experience that there's uncertainty about how to do community-based work, and you lose the animals you're so happy with, the motivation over time will be gone. That's what makes the discussion about predators so intense. It's about being happy in animals, and then you notice that animals suffer a lot because predators have come into the area. Then the Stortinget and the government have lied again – a continuous debate since Vidar Helgesen made his big message about the wolf. The government wanted a higher population, they wanted 58 flocks, and they were tried by the Stortinget. Left – with Ola Elvestuen – was one of the few parties that actually supported the government also in the main hall. Then the population was set to 4–6, precisely because one wanted fewer wolves and wanted a lower level of conflict. What is one of the problems of this year's decision by the government council of Elvesuen together with Bård Hoksrud and Bent Höie is that one comes back to a population that is above what the Storting put in spring 2016 – therefore the great commitment that is on the outside, one feels again that one is not being seen, that one is being tried and finally run over. There was a big debate about the wolf in the spring of 2017, which became a very demanding round. When Vidar Helgesen came up with his proposals for changes to the law, he did not get one vote in Stortinget. He did not have support in the Right, not in the Advance Party, not in any parties, and there were legal formulations. Then came the summer of 2017 and what happened in Hadeland. And the reason, if you go to the core -- it had become special arrangements there -- was that the government was so defensive in the wolf policy that you thought you would do something new, and then you compensated for the economic losses on Hadeland. That's because Erna Solberg was going to visit there. That's the most likely reason. Erna Solberg was going to visit and show some action. Because there was a lot of media attention around it. Then came the arrangements, which we thought was good, it was good that you came up with compensation schemes that were better than what you had had before – precisely because it was soon a choice, and that the government had been on a collision course with Storting the whole spring. What's so unfair to those who experience loss in the North East, is that when there's no choice, and it's becoming more normal, it's not so important for Erna Solberg to travel to the area, show action, show that as political leader she takes the problem seriously. Then it's about doing it whole. Ergo will not be the same compensation either. That's what's sad about the discussion in the North East Valley. I hope that the Council of State Elvestuen and the Advance Party-Right-led government have learned that the next time there will be an application to take out the wolf in the North East Valley in the spring party, you don't say no, but you say yes. It's the abuse of people's time when in April they applied to get the wolf out, they got no, and then they got yes at the end of May, when the animals were grazing. Then it was completely impossible to take out that wolf, to get shot that wolf, or the wolves. Then people had to spend the whole summer around the clock looking for a wolf that you could easily take out a month before. So the use of numbers: Councillor Elvesuen was so proud that there was less loss within the wolf zone. Then it's a little bit important to actually look at the numbers. For the report to which Elvesuen refers, please refer, for example: three municipalities such as Våler, Åsnes and Grue – how many animals are there on the outskirts of those municipalities now? According to the report by Elvesuen, there are zero animals on the outback of the municipalities now – zero. The three municipalities are larger than the Vestfold counties in area. There's no small area. Some of the resources in those municipalities have just been that they have had land, but due to a faulty predatory policy, it is no longer possible to use that resource. Of course, there will be less losses when you no longer use the field for grazing, which is one of the most environmentally friendly ways to harvest resources, which can be renamed into food production for people. My last call to Elvesuen is: When spring comes now, listen to more, take a little more seriously when it comes to applications when it's spring snow, so that you can take out potential pests before the grazing season. Because it was abuse of people's time and lack of respect for people's time what happened last summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e1499	The disadvantages of the predatory policy that the government is pursuing are obvious. The wolf battle rages in Norway, and I constantly see claims from people trying to plant false premises in this debate. One of the claims I have been sent includes an image that will also show the development of areas dedicated to wolves in Norway. There's a figure that shows that in 1971 the whole country was devoted to the wolf. In the polarized predatory game debate, such claims continue to appear. It is a fact that in 1971 there were no wolf herds in Norway. The wolves ’ sleeves were not heard — nor in my home country, Northland, although some claim that the county was also dedicated to the wolf. But Nordland was and is one of the best grazing communities in the country. Both sheep, cattle and reindeer thrived on grazing in the 1970s, and the predatory game traps were minimal. Although the wolf is not the problem in the Nordic countries, the losses of reincalves are now about. 60 pst. Both yews, yawns and eagles supply themselves roughly with domestic animals, but the Council of State has not yet given priority to meeting the reindeer's concerned. In the predatory debate I have also been asked to answer yes or no whether a political decision is above the legal framework that determines whether a predator can be taken out or not. This is also an example of a false dilemma. Of course, in the law they manage what they are responsible for. Such false truths about the predatory wildlife, about people who have animals on pasture, about hunters, about forest owners and others who want to regulate the predatory wildlife populations, are, of course, spread through social media. There is an avid comment on false premises and false representations. I still feel that some people are trying to label me as a predator. It's a very clear example of planting a false truth. It's not like I, although I want to regulate the predatory wildlife stock so that the predatory game deal is followed up in a better way than today, goes around and hates some animals. I don't even hate elk and deer, even if I hunt them. Another disadvantage with the government's predatory game policy is what it costs. Feeding on these predators costs users. It costs a huge amount of clean mentality, it costs a huge amount in terms of working time, and it costs a huge amount in terms of lost income. I do not understand how the Council of State can live with the unfairness of not granting full compensation to the users of pastures in the north-east of the country for extra costs, while the users of grazing land do so. Is the election campaign of the Governmental Council partners the reason for this?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e1516	The debate on wolf management is a particularly demanding debate. That is why it is important that we at least agree on some of the assumptions in the debate, and that is why I react every time the Council of State drives and plays with numbers in the case of young wolves in Norway and border revirons. What he's saying is not at all in line with what his own professional body, Rovdata and the Environment Directorate, say in terms of young people and the number of wolves. In any case, in order to cope with the demanding debate, we must agree on some of the preconditions in the debate and not try to change the assumptions according to the wishes of the Council of State. What Rovdata do is that they carry out a thorough survey every winter, through the wolf census, of the wolf population in Norway and border reviral populations. The stock has exploded in the last two years. Until 2013, there were never more than five young people, including border revirons. There were never more than three geese up until 2013, in fact until 2016. In the 2016–2017 season, there were seven helnorphic juveniles, last year there were eight helnorphic juveniles. So the government's en route try to subtract the revir that's taken out – things that's done, censuses that's been done so far in winter. It's an attempt to trick with numbers. Everyone knows that the censuses you've done so far in winter are not stock status, it's just a looping message along the way. There is not even half way in the wolf count to be made in winter, on the basis of which the management's decision will be taken in spring and summer. It's true that you have 61 wolves on January 11th, but it's halfway in the count, and you have to assume that you're probably getting as high as last year, when you had 115-116 wolves. Let's at least agree on the numbers and stop repeating numbers other than what the professional bodies are using, and which are also the basis of the decisions taken by the predators every summer. They form the basis for the entire treatment that is around the predatory game policy during the summer. The wolf count is not finished until May, and the Council of State knows that very well. This I think he could save himself, I needed to say, for this trick with numbers that he does when it comes to the number of young people, I think it's too small. It helps to increase the conflict on these issues. In a way, the Council of State is entitled to the fact that there are quite good compensation arrangements. On the other hand, one must also acknowledge that a question arises about the arbitrariness and difference in the exercise and use of the arrangements. That's probably what the interpellant's question is here today – that you choose to do it one way in one place and another way – whether it's trustworthy. What we're not getting away from is that this question is a huge burden on those who are most affected. Of course, it's a heavy load for those who get in a striped wolf that might take 40 sheep in a night or two, but it's a very heavy load for those who live in those areas where there's the greatest incidence of wolves. When they feel that there is discrimination in the use of compensation schemes, there is something they should take very seriously, for each individual loss also makes a big impression on them, and the feeling of living in a reserve – as the Storting has said they should not – becomes stronger and stronger when they feel that there is also discrimination between different areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e1534	The President would like to remind you that all speeches are to be made through the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e1539	First, I want to draw up an overall perspective on predictability. This is something all industries and all business is looking for. Either it's in an operation or a production and for it to go around, you need to know what's coming tomorrow. Whether you're a government councillor, a city councillor or most people, you like to know that the household is actually going to go around. The way pasturage, field and predatory game are handled and managed is the very opposite of predictability. The ministry knows best, while predators and peasants who are affected are not heard. There is a clear difference between grazing users the prime minister can visit in helicopters in an election year and those grazing users who stay far up in the North East Valley. In common, they suffer enormous losses both in economic terms and in personal pressures. The Minister for Climate and Environment is standing here today saying that there is no common mention of wolves and the loss of grazing animals. At the same time, we have an agricultural and food minister who celebrates the fall of record wolves. I wonder if they are from the same government! The Minister for Climate and Environment will continue to talk about legislation. He's making it sound like the Berne Convention was adopted yesterday -- oh, no, it was concluded in 1979. There is no reason for today’s government to turn on the deterrent policy for that reason now. I'm not going to say that jus is simple, but it's time for the Council of State to admit that this is politics. Nor can the Council of State be guilty of cross-border wolf. Predators don't see national boundaries. Who, then, is responsible for predator management in Norway? Yes, the Minister for Climate and Environment. If there are challenges with the Swedish wolf, it is precisely the state councils that need to engage in dialogue with Swedish wild game management. In fact, we assume that our Council of State permits effective withdrawals and has a consistent compensation for the loss of grazing animals. This is because Stortinget has said that we are going to have food production in Norway. We're going to have food production on Norwegian resources, but it requires the use of land. Instead of rustling with legislation, the Council of State should make a clear statement on the matter. When we set the stock targets for Stortinget, we facilitate grazing animals, the exploitation of pasture land and environmentally friendly food production that contribute to the care of, among other things. red-listed plant species. Own guidelines were provided by Fylkesmannen in Oslo, Akershus and Oppland respectively to ensure full compensation after the large losses to the wolf in 2017. It showed the need for own guidelines, stressing that the current compensation scheme is not satisfactory and that it is necessary to amend the rules on compensation after the loss of domestic animals for game of prey to comply with those guidelines. In the presence of predators in pasture priority areas, countless hours of additional work will be laid down, giving additional costs to limit the level of damage just done, and not least to document losses incurred. The current compensation scheme only provides compensation for a limited part of these costs and not for all grazing users. Where the animals are unable to benefit from pasture grazing during the period necessary to receive grazing premium, this would result in additional losses. It is difficult for people to align themselves with the decisions of the Stortinget when the framework under today's government is constantly changing. We lack predictability as the industry deserves. There is a very small proportion of Norway's population who bear the burden of taking care of wolves. In areas like Hedmark, we notice the situation on the body every grazing season. The Finnish-Russian wolf is a good example of unwise politics. It's spicy that wolves on Norwegian soil give us increased biodiversity. There is no point in introducing a predator that is a major harm to the off-road industry when the same wolf lives in large numbers on another territory. On the contrary, when pastureland grows again, it is destructive to biodiversity. Not only does the Council of State and the government trample on the farmers' economy and life situation, but it also tramples on their professional pride in having good, safe Norwegian food.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e1554	I would like to thank you for the debate. Although I would like to see representatives from both the Right Party, the Advance Party and other government parties in the Chamber, I would nevertheless like to thank the Council of State for putting him up – even though exciting things are happening elsewhere today. I rely a little on the fact that the Council of State is constantly stressing that the state must have control and predictability of its budgets. This is also reflected in the department's refusal of compensation. It is true, but it is at least as important for grazing users in the north-east to have control and predictability of their budgets as it is for the state. The peasants cannot predict, either, and they cannot know that there is a predator attack until they are up in it, nor can they know the extent of the damage until they have carried out supervision and taken action. With the political leaders put in place, I still believe that the farmers in pasture-priority areas should not have to reckon with large economic losses due to predators. Nevertheless, they deserve predictability that they will have their expenses covered. What's extra sin in all of this is that this is actually pretty small amounts for a department and for the state. Maybe that's a few million. But there are extremely large amounts of money in a business – in lost income or in expenses you have. Here the Left and the Government could actually get a fairly cheap political gain by meeting the demands of the peasant organizations and peasants in the North East Valley, but instead chooses to put hard on a case where it is quite incomprehensible. In this case, the state is the strong party. It is the state that is responsible for predatory policies, and I also believe that the state is clearly the closest to bearing the financial loss caused by predatory attacks. I would also encourage not to trick with numbers, as the representative Arnstad mentioned in his post, for example. in the case of the number of juveniles. The day it was supposed to be a demonstration outside of here to follow up the decision on the crash, State Secretary Hamar operated with a number of four young people. Today, there were 6.5 young people from the Council of State. These are numbers that aren't done yet, so I want to ask you to use the numbers from the previous count, which were 10.5 young people. I still hope that the Council of State can turn around, because it is still not too late. We can hope that there is a new hope with extended government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e1567	First, I want to thank the interpellant for the interpellation. It's always interesting to discuss predators, and it's a discussion I think it's necessary to have all the time, precisely because it's all about dealing with a situation of having a balance between having both the big predators and a living grazing industry in Norway. This is about how we're going to be able to combine this in the best possible way. To some of the issues raised: firstly, it is important to distinguish between what is a compensation scheme and what is a grant scheme. In the case of the compensation scheme for direct losses of grazing animals to predators and the estimated losses, full compensation is available and the same compensation scheme applies. The discussion is about the grant scheme and the prevention grants. In this context, new national rates for home grazing and early sinking were adopted in March of this year, just to get out and prevent the kind of exceptional cases that we had in 2017. There is a very low threshold for applications for prevention measures, but there is a demand for contact with the State. It is a matter of the County also having a coordinating role to control which actions are being implemented. There has been a low threshold also in the north-east valley. For 2019, we have also strengthened the State's budget by 5 million. kr, so that they may be more likely to be present in several locations at the same time as the next year, depending on the situation. In addition, we have increased the preventive measures, the FKTs, by 10 million. kr, with a project for Nord-Österdal. What was granted in the fall was requests for radio bells and support for connections in the north-east valley. So we follow the situation closely and will follow it up. It's been critical of the numbers we're using. There were 10.5 young people in the 2017-2018 season – that's right – but two of them were shot. I think you should bring it too. When it is highlighted in the discussion that there is an explosive increase in the wolf population, it is true that if you look ten years back in time, there is an increase, but it is unclear what this picture looks like now. So I'm going to use the preliminary numbers, and I'm going to point out every time that these are preliminary numbers. 6.5 young people are not what we've shown, that's what we believe and have calculated to be. But there might be more, and we'll see when the numbers are done.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-17.ana.ud548e1580	The debate on substance is closed. Four is over. Thus, today's map is finished. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled. The President will dare to wish the Council of State a good trip to the Gardermoen.
