ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e72	The representatives Else-May Norderhus and Kari Elisabeth Kaski, who have been on leave, have once again taken their seats. The following called alternates are now taking their seat: For Western Agder: Theodor Helland For Finnmark: Ragnhild H. Kaski An application for sick leave is submitted by the Workers' Group to the representative of Tore Hagebakken from 26 November until further notice. An application for a permit to provide care for the representative of Bjørn Moxnes was submitted to the Rødt Storingsgruppe on 26 November. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Uppland: Stine Renate Håheim For Oslo: Seher Aydar
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e123	Stine Renate Håheim and Seher Aydar are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e134	The representative, Petter Eide, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e139	Good morning! There's one suggestion from me. The European Court of Justice has just adopted a requirement for the labelling of goods originating in areas occupied by Israel. Representatives of Audun Lysbakken, Arne Nävra, Solfrid Lerbreck and I want the corresponding labelling of goods imported into Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e144	The representative, Lars Haltbrecken, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e149	Even on a gray November day it is possible to draw energy from the sun. That is why, on behalf of the representatives of the big business Arne Nävra, Karin Andersen, Petter Eide, Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes, Freddy André Øvstegård, Mona Fagerås, Kari Elisabeth Kaski and myself, I would like to make a proposal on solar power.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e154	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e162	The President will propose that a President-in-Office be elected for Stortinget's meetings this week. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The President will propose Ingerd Schou. – Other proposals are not available, and Mr Schou is unanimously elected president of this week’s meetings. Case No. 1 and 2 will be treated together.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e196	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e213	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: The allocated speaking time will be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes. The number is distributed as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Christian Party 5 minutes, Environmental Party Green 5 minutes and Red 5 minutes. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines will be given with replies after contributions from members of the Government. In addition, those who have to sign up for the speaker list in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e224	When Stortinget dealt with Report. St. 27 for 2016–2017, on industry in general, asked a unanimous growth government to promote a health industry notification. The aim of the communication was to make us leaders in e-health and to facilitate innovation in healthcare acquisitions. It should also ensure that the public organised better for clinical studies, ensure that research became products and services for the benefit of patients, and strengthen access to risk capital. The result is the health nutrition message that we are dealing with today. Norway needs to transform our economy and our business into green. Increased investment in the health industry will be an important contribution. The industry is already trading for nearly 60 billion dollars. kr and employed in 2016 about 100 000 people. The industry is well adapted to the Norwegian employment, cost and competence profile, and Norway is well placed to attract health industrial production. Health research is the largest field of research in Norway and is characterised by a wide range of international excellence in several areas, including: in neuroscience, oncology and global health. In total, the Research Council invested 1.5 billion. kr in health in 2018. TaxFUNN and the Research Council are responsible for approx. 30 pst. of all national research and innovation efforts in the health sector. In its consultation response to the notification, the Research Council has shown that the health industry accounts for the most valuable jobs in our neighbouring countries, while Norway is able to obtain less value creation and fewer enterprises out of the large public funds we use for health research. There is also a disproportionate distribution of research resources between the specialist health service and the community health service. Although the two health services are operationally equivalent, only one out of 10 research crowns go to the municipal health service and this should be amended. The start-up of a health business has some specific challenges, often involving small enterprises and a high-risk, long-term development and stringent regulation. If we're good at research, our testing and commercialising infrastructure is something that can be better. In some fields, they're world-class, like, in the case of IFE, where pharmaceutical companies can test out and manufacture cancer medicine with radioactive agents in an environment that can handle them. The minority of the Committee has put forward several proposals that we want to promote here today, in order to strengthen the infrastructure we have to promote commercialisation. Among other things, we have wanted a national centre for clinical studies. Access to equity is particularly difficult for start-ups in the health sector. This is because it takes a long time before companies are in a position to operate loans, much in the light of long, cost-intensive developments. The capital supply committee in its time said something about that in particular smaller enterprises with a need of 20 million. kr in equity has a demanding situation. In the order issued by the Stortinget when a health industry notification was requested, the Committee asked the government to come up with measures to increase access to risk capital for the industry. Then it is disappointing that the message merely states that it will be assessed by the government in the future. Innovation Norway must at least have its loans at its disposal for those companies that spend many years before they have a positive capital flow. Feedback has been received in the treatment of the notification that this is not necessarily the case. For the Workers' Party, it is important that the Investinor retains its direct investment mandate. We believe that Investinor can actively contribute to the creation of more jobs in Norway by investing directly in the health industry. With this I address the proposals of which the Labour Party is part, but proposal No. 15 not to be promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e252	The representative of Åsunn Lyngedal has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e257	For the first time, there is a growing awareness of the health industry, and with it we want to contribute to increased value creation in the Norwegian economy, more profitable jobs and a better and more efficient health and care service. The question is, what are we going to live on from? The answer is that it is the sum of the future work effort that is the most important. In the future, we will – and must – stand on many more legs than we do today. One job in the fossil sector must be replaced by up to eight other jobs, given the great difference it is in the value creation between almost all other industries and the petroleum industry. Health has the potential to become one of the most important crops in the future. Even today it is the fastest growing industry in mainland Norway. The health services of today and the future face major challenges and high expectations. The greater the gap between expectation and delivery, the greater the challenges for healthcare providers, and for those of us who are going to finance them. The health notification points to how business can contribute to better health care and more jobs, tax receipts and necessary conversion. But the question isn't just what we're going to live on. There are many questions: how long are we going to live? How good are we going to be in health while we're alive? What kind of services are we going to need, not to say require? An almost total increase today sees how the health industry can generate economic growth and jobs and solve several of the health challenges of the future at the same time. I think it's very important that we now see more across sectors, and that there is a greater invitation to cooperation between industry and the health sector, for the rest. Health can solve many of our health and care challenges over the next decades, while being one of our largest industries with exports to a global market. Trust in Norway abroad is high – both in our political stability, our security and our high level of knowledge, which gives us an advantage in the global market, where much of the value creation in this sector takes place. Norway may improve and this communication and the referral of the two committees to the Grand Duchy is an important step forward. We want much greater cooperation between health care, business and educational institutions. Norwegian companies have resources, they have skills, and they have innovation power, which public can make use of. The notification is the start of a development that allows Norway to become a leader in a field where we are now somewhat behind our neighbouring countries. Cultural change is something most people agree on is good. It's often even necessary – until it's all of a sudden about changing the culture where you are. Then we put our heels in the ground, and whoever tries to catch up with our culture is rejected by cash with: no thanks, that's how we do it here. Changing the culture of innovation and cooperation will be difficult. Washing away the fear of contact between academics and commercial actors will take time. Enterprises and institutions shall be provided with opportunities and guidelines to create a culture of cooperation. Leaders shall be instructed, new culture integrated and innovation shall be prioritised. This is a work that needs to take time, and it is important that at the different levels an understanding of why this is important and how individuals should contribute is established. Cultural change is absolutely necessary. This is a big ambition, but it will give a significant gain if we succeed. I am pleased with the message and the good work done in the committees afterwards. The message has been received well, and I think the head of the pharmaceutical industry said well when the message was submitted: it feels a little like 17 May and Christmas evening at once, since today the government has taken political leadership to develop the important health industry. In the work on the message, many people have been aware that this is just the beginning, and I agree with that. That's a good start. It adds up to a number of changes, and we have to follow developments in the future. If we are to continue to have good growth, continue to have innovation and better services and take the leading position we should take, we all – the politicians, the commercial actors, the education and research communities, the health and care sector, yes, everyone involved – take responsibility for both the cultural changes that need to come, and seize the opportunities that innovation and development offers us. This is the starting shot. Now there is a broad consensus on the reality description of today's situation and the picture drawn from what is possible: a better culture, incentives for cooperation, easier access to clinical testing facilities, increased growth and internationalisation, more commercialisation, better access to health data and clearer roles. There is reason to congratulate the day, avoid a little celebration tonight and then fold up the sleeves and beat the challenges as early as tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e278	The total health industry in Norway is small, the value creation represents only about 3 pst. of the mainland economy, but it is an industry with high potential. It combines the growing need for Norway for better welfare and health solutions with technological developments, which are crucial for Norwegian industry and the Norwegian economy. We have seen that health value creation is increasing, and in recent years the increase has been higher than in the mainland economy as a whole. Good growth conditions for the health industry take time to develop. Norway generally has good business framework conditions, but the health industry has some special challenges, in particular related to the necessary cooperation between business, public health and care services, research and academia. This shouldn't be a problem, because this is an industry where everyone wins the most if they cooperate and exchange data and information. I observe that the opposition in notes expresses that they are lifesaving for profit and commercialisation in the health care industry, and that this will harm our common health care. The Norwegian population will have strong public health protection, exempted from commercial logic, believes the red-green opposition. I don't think there's any basis for profit panic or clock belief in public excellence. After all, it's all the private that accounts for most of the value creation here in the country. In the health sector, good cooperation is needed between private business – with private capital – and the public sector. Adequate access to capital in the various stages of development of start-up enterprises is crucial for growth. Start-up enterprises in the health sector face some specific challenges. Menon’s report ‘Health value 2019’ identifies access to capital as the main obstacle to the development of enterprises and new jobs. The Government is now considering recommendations from the Capital Access Committee and the recommendation of the review of the industrial instrument. In many cases, the use of options can alleviate the lack of capital. The Capital Access Committee recommends that the deferred taxation scheme of options be made considerably more attractive to start-ups in the health sector. In the State budget, the government has proposed to extend the option regime to companies with a maximum of 12 employees and to increase the option benefit per employee from DKK 500000 to SEK 1 million. kr. This is good, but I think the government should consider how to adjust the start-up scheme in order to make it even more applicable to start-ups in the health sector. One way may be to extend the arrangement to include companies over six years of age in the award year, which is the limit today. Health is a time-consuming industry — research and testing is required before products and services are released. This usually takes more than six years, and thus these companies fall out of the scheme. Norway has very comprehensive health data of very good quality, and this can also contribute to the creation of value in the health industry. At the same time, it is important to protect and strengthen privacy and security. The government will establish a health analysis platform to streamline and facilitate access to health data for research and analysis, which will also strengthen privacy. Strong data protection is important, but one must not become rigid enough to prevent data sharing at all, as this may prevent cooperation between research environments in different countries. EU legislation has been discussed in this way. It is important to stress that we have had good and fruitful cooperation with, among other things. Norway’s cancer records and research environments in the United States, which have contributed to good solutions, were widely heard by the Business Committee when they were in the United States in the previous period. Bilateral and international cooperation in health research and innovation is important, but at the same time it is pointed out that access to health data by companies should be limited due to patient safety and privacy considerations under Norwegian legislation. Not all countries, all companies, should have access to Norwegian health data.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e295	The centre share the intention and aim to facilitate growth in an offensive Norwegian health industry. For the Central Party, it is important to establish that a growing health industry is not a target, but a means of providing people with better and more accurate treatment, fewer side effects, better prevention and diagnostics and contributing to safe care services and better patient safety, which prevents the development of a two-part healthcare system. For the Central Party, it is also important to clarify that we want a strong public health system, and that we believe that health care should not be about privatisation and commercialisation of services or more of so-called welfare mix. The message emphasises that today there is a complex interaction between the public and private sectors. That may be right, but on another hand, there is reason to ask questions about the government's use of words when describing the health sector as a market and healthcare as a customer. We are also critical that the government in this context does not distinguish between private, non-profit and private commercial providers, and we ask questions about what the government means when they write in the message that they will facilitate ‘innovative public acquisitions in healthcare and health care services’ – especially when we see that ESA will not accept the creation of its own classes of supply for ideals. Norway has several older and more mixed sufferings. This is not a problem, as it might appear in the message – it is a good one, we live longer, and we survive diseases. But that also means that we need the help of the health care system, both to live and to survive. This needs to be delivered to the health sector. The health industry must then contribute, and we must have a strong health industry in Norway that can support the public in this important work. Norway has the best starting point for that. Good industrial policy also in the health sector must be based on a sensible division of labour between public and private businesses. It is positive that the health industry notification takes action when it concerns clinical studies. The centre party would like to welcome an action plan. It is a declaration of failure when Norway today appears to be the least attractive country in the North for clinical studies and that the number of clinical studies has fallen. The centre party will support the development and implementation of personalised medicine, which are really future treatment methods. The Central Party also believes that there is a need for rapid implementation of the Health Analysis Platform, because public health data are important for the development of a patient-friendly healthcare industry. The requirement is that the privacy protection is maintained during this work. We think that increasing research in the community health service is very important, and that it needs even stronger incentives in place to get this done, in terms of both specific funding and stronger lawmaking. In order for this health nutrition message, Norway would become a leader in eHealth in Europe by 2025. We're a long way from this goal. We in the Center Party are critical of how the Directorate for e-Health works today. Several have criticised the size of projects and the fact that the directorate develops services itself instead of driving regulation, which hinders innovation and national service development. We have several failures in IT efforts behind us in health care, and both the health platform in Health Centre and the Akson project are now criticized. There are several proposals for national production of critically important medicinal products. The centre party has also proposed this earlier, and in our view this must be done in public-private cooperation rather than through a state-owned company, as SV suggests. Such a production will often be about old but useful medicines that, due to low ignition, industry would not see the benefit of producing any more. So when it comes to the development of new antibiotics and the production of old but incredibly important drugs, there is still a need for new funding solutions, which promote development and production and not sale and use. We hope that this is a responsibility that the government takes seriously and follows up. With this, I'm going to deal with the proposal that the Center Party is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e316	The representative Kjersti Toppe has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e321	The representative Kårstein Eidem Løvaas from the Right said he wanted to have a party today because of the health care message. I really doubt that quite strongly. I don't actually see that the basis is great for a party. In any case, I am surprised if Eidem Løvaas actually takes a party based on this message. As a kick-off for a discussion about health, which is a very comprehensive field, I would say that the message has a good analysis in many areas, but that it lacks action. One lands on the sphere in a way. I'm going to draw out three areas in particular where this becomes pretty clear. On risk and capital: it is clear that if one is to develop a health industry of importance in Norway, we have a challenge when it comes to accessing risk capital. The opposition is regrouping a series of suggestions to cover this, but the government party doesn't smell at that time. What we're left with is what's in the health nutrition message, which is pretty easy stuff. What then becomes the reality is that this value creation ends up elsewhere, where there are better conditions for capital and risk capital, that is, out of the country. That is the reality. Here is a possibility through this message to get a position, but a choice not to use it – the blue government is not willing to take risks with the industry. The representative Ørsal Johansen problemated himself with this in his post and made certain calls. It's a shame it wasn't included in the treatment, so we could get together on suggestions, that one actually listens to the recordings from the opposition. The second point concerns medicinal products. We have an acute drug shortage, which is going to increase in time. The opposition agrees that more medicinal products need to be produced in Norway, and proposes this. We in the SV even suggest that the state should take the initiative to establish the production of medicinal products itself, because this will be insensitive. But neither does the government move into any field. She seems to be confident that the lack of medicines we see today is going to go over or not get any of them. When it comes to health data, which is a very large field, a growing field, we may also be losing the ability to build a strong industry, an ICT industry, in Norway. There too, I would say that the government has been in trouble for quite some time – it has been pointed out from my side for quite some time. The government has not been able to find out how to establish boundaries between private and public in a productive way, where both Norwegian ICT health can be built on one side and at the same time develop services on the other side. What happens then is that there is a lot depending on what enterprise it is and what type of service it is – no clear message from the state. There are different practices around here. Something is produced indoors, others sell it out, like Silicon Valley and other actors internationally. And we'll see where we are today. We're losing ground in a very important, emerging area, which I think is very strange that the government can't find better answers than what she's doing here. The opposition has suggested it. In addition, we have proposals to ensure that the investment, making available, commercial and commercial use of health data at least leads to the creation of value in Norway. It's a proposal we're calling on the government to work on. Nor is there anything you want to move in on because there is now a suggestion from the opposition. I believe that for a party that is engaged in building Norwegian business based on Norwegian health data, going against it, is quite alarming. So finally about personalised medicine. It applies to both medicine and digital solutions. That's a very important question in the future. But neither does government move from analysis to action.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e340	Would the representative like to comment on the SV's proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e345	He will.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e351	The representative, Torgair Knag Fylkesnes, then addressed the proposal from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e356	The left believes that ensuring good health and care services to all is a public responsibility. Several actors are necessary, both private, non-profit and others. Our policy is that we should have a strong public health system, so that everyone is guaranteed an equivalent health service across the country. The Norwegian economy and health and welfare services face significant challenges. A population that lives longer and more with chronic diseases leads to a potential gap between demand and access to healthcare. That is why I am pleased that a total increase wanted a big message about the health industry, which is the one we are discussing today. Health is a very exciting industry, with a lot of innovation and potential for growth, both in Norway and abroad. The value creation in the health industry is about 3 pst. of the mainland economy of Norway, with a total of 100 000 employed in the industry. This is significant. Health is a knowledge-intensive industry and health research is Norway's largest research area. The economic growth of Norway depends on the ability to convert knowledge into new activities. By stimulating research and innovation, we will contribute to technology development and to creating profitable and forward-looking health businesses in Norway. We welcome the government's signal to identify the potential for increased interaction with the health industry in relevant parts of the institutional sector. Such a survey can reveal how institutions can be stimulated for more research in the health sector that can be commercialised. Few industries have a larger growing national and international market than the health industry. If we are to ensure Norwegian innovation access to foreign markets, international cooperation is important. That's why we think we need more international cooperation, not less. The United Nations and the EU are very clear on the challenges, and increased innovation is crucial for better living standards, a reduction in the burden on public budgets and the rigging of tomorrow’s health services. Access to capital is identified as the main obstacle to the development of enterprises and new jobs in health and care. The left is concerned about making life easier for businesses. Small and medium-sized enterprises are the backbone of work and value creation across the country. By making it easier for people to start their own business, we enable people to make free choices. We believe that it means growth and better well-being for the whole of society. Better framework conditions for job creators secure the future for Norway and for people. If we are to maintain a good and equivalent health supply in Norway, it is essential that we use all the innovation available and that we contribute to the development of knowledge and possible commercialisation and export of it. That is why we want to improve access to capital by, inter alia, to look at the option tax regime in companies and tax incentives for investment in start-up and start-up enterprises. Although the starting point for Norwegian health care is good, there are barriers that can make it difficult for single businesses as well as the whole industry to grow. Welfare technology gives individual freedom and the ability to take control of their health. This will contribute to the way health professionals communicate with patients. We are absolutely sure that new technologies are in the process of revolutionising the health care system and of ensuring good and sustainable solutions for the benefit of the patient. Welfare technology enterprises are growing and have already advanced in the development of new technologies. In order to exploit the potential of technology, we are concerned that the State must ensure common standards. In addition, we need closer cooperation between municipalities, businesses, universities and research communities. It is important that the patient is always at the centre, and that we have an equivalent provision of healthcare across the country. We need to work continuously for a more user-friendly healthcare system that ensures that each patient is given greater transparency and control over his or her own course of treatment. The health industry plays a crucial role in getting new technologies in place this year to give patients new opportunities to take responsibility for their own health. This gives the patient responsibility and freedom. I cannot fail to comment on the prepared article for Torgeira Knag Fylkesnes. Unlike him, I can see that the representative Kårstein Eidem Løvaas sees the possibilities that this gives. Knag Fylkesnes hassled that there was no reason for the representative Eidem Løvaas to take a party. I think that is a good reason, because the representative, Eidem Løvaas, sees the possibilities. He sees that this gives an opportunity room, which the representative Knag Fylkesnes at all is unable to see, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e379	For unenlarged purposes, the title of the paper we now have for treatment, the Health Industry – Together on value creation and better services, may suggest that it is a major change in the direction of privatising Norwegian health services and care services. Of course it's not like that. There is broad cross-political consensus among all parties on the Stortinget that it is a public responsibility to ensure good health and care services for all, based on the needs of patients and an overall objective of ensuring that all patients are provided with an equivalent level of healthcare wherever they live in the country. Nevertheless, it is not possible to get away from the fact that the Norwegian health system, whether in the case of primary and specialised health services or municipal elderly care, faces major challenges in the years and decades to come. According to figures from the Statistical Centre, there are now about 220,000 people in Norway who are 80 years of age or older. In the next 20 years, this number will double, so in 2040 we will have almost half a million inhabitants in Norway who belong to the 80+ age group. By 2060, this number will have increased to about 700,000. It is gratifying that very many in this age group can expect to be in good health and to have an active life both now and in the future. Nevertheless, it is a crossroads that we already have a situation where the total annual number of care services for the whole country is 143 000 – well over half the number of people aged 80 or over. Maintaining that ratio up to 2040 may prove to be demanding — yes, at the limit of what is possible. It goes without saying that new technologies, increased focus on research and innovation, and better and smarter use of Community resources are imperative. It is necessary in order to ensure good quality of health and care services up to the middle of the 21st century. For this reason, the government promotes a key health industry message that focuses on increased interaction between public health services and health industry providers. Then we will achieve a win-win situation in the years to come: increasing competitiveness in the Norwegian health industry, while at the same time providing a more sustainable health and care service. It is an approach that we in the Christian People's Party stand behind us and support. A central element of government policy will then be to facilitate the stimulation of an innovation culture in public health and care services. This may include, inter alia: are achieved with a stronger focus on education programmes for managers of specialist health services and community health and care services. At the same time, increased use of innovative acquisitions in healthcare and health management needs to be facilitated. Where one has previously had a rather one-sided focus on price and available shelf products, it will become increasingly important to carry out innovative ordering processes focusing on desired solutions and increased patient satisfaction. It will in turn trigger the innovation power of healthcare providers. An appropriate instrument to achieve this could be to introduce innovation indicators in the specialist healthcare service and to use them as part of the performance-based funding of research and innovation. The same applies to indicators for clinical studies. At the same time, it is a challenge for many health professionals to experience the health and care sector as complex and complex with demanding organisation and governance models. Then the question of success or failure is also a question of whether business is able to read correctly the public that orders. It is therefore very important to establish meeting places where health and care services and businesses are actively involved in early-stage innovation processes, preferably already in the idea phase. From the point of view of the Christian People's Party, it is gratifying that an overall committee is bringing forward the strong health clusters that have been built up in Norway in recent years, just like such meeting places between the public and private actors in the health sector. Examples of such clusters are Oslo Cancer Cluster and Norway Health Tech. We are also pleased that an overall committee sees the potential of establishing a national mentoring programme for health business enterprises, as outlined by the Nansen Neuroscience Network in the consultation process, in order to shorten the time from a business idea to launch and reach the market. We in the Christian People's Party will further promote the important work that has been done in Kristiansund in recent years to establish a health innovation centre. It is developing into an important arena for increased use and phase-in of technology and service innovation in the healthcare sector and strengthening research and innovation as part of inter-municipal cooperation in this area. It was therefore a correct and important step that the government of the State budget for 2020 changed the allocations to the health innovation centre in Kristiansund from annual project funding to a fixed budget allocation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e402	It is business that creates the values that underpin our common well-being in Norway. If we are to equip Norway for the future, we must have companies that succeed. Only in this way can we secure jobs and finance our healthcare services in the future. As has been said, it is the first time that a health industry is reported. Health is important because it can provide us with more profitable jobs as well as a more sustainable health and care service. Innovation and industrial resources can help solve the major challenges facing healthcare. The companies supplying the goods and services needed by the health and care sector will be able to reach a large market, not only in Norway but also internationally. In order to achieve the health policy objectives of creating the patient’s health and care services and to contribute to good health for all, the industrial policy objective of increased value creation in the Norwegian economy can thus also be achieved. The main objective of the health nutrition notification is precisely this: to contribute to increased competitiveness in the Norwegian health industry while at the same time contributing to a more sustainable health and care service in the form of more effective prevention, treatment and care. Health has done well in recent years. Health industry growth has been higher than that of the mainland economy. The government’s industrial policy is good for the health sector. In addition, we have important advantages that underpin a competitive health industry: a world-class health and care sector and large investments in health data, research and education. We have to take advantage of this. But then there are barriers that can make it hard to grow. This is particularly linked to the culture of cooperation between private and public actors. The health sector needs to be better equipped to seek innovative solutions and a culture of cooperation between the public and private sectors needs to be developed. It will contribute to a well-functioning supplier market, which will benefit health and care services in turn. In addition, there is much evidence that knowledge and understanding of the business environment for the needs of healthcare, the financial framework, management systems and regulatory requirements are not always good enough. Nutritional trends in the health sector require professionalism at all stages. The health notification presents policy processes that are already underway and are likely to contribute to reducing some of the barriers facing the health industry. This will also be discussed by the Minister for Health. It is also — or perhaps primarily — a commercial policy report. Nutrition policy as such is well designed to promote growth and development also in the health sector, but we must constantly think about how we can improve and how we can renew. There is therefore a need for further work and new measures in some areas. This applies, inter alia, to: working to ensure that Norwegian health and care services are an attractive partner in Norwegian and international business. A well-functioning domestic market is, as I said, important for the success of Norwegian companies in global markets. Health is characterised by long and costly trends. This requires capital. The Capital Access Committee, which delivered its report last year, was set down to assess the access of business to capital. Their assessment was that capital availability mainly works well, but especially in growth phases and early stages it can be challenging. The government follows up the capital supply selection in several ways, including: through an investigation into taxes on wealth and the effects on Norwegian enterprises and their owners, by, of course, lowering taxes on Norwegian ownership, by a new mandate to Investinor and by bringing together seed and presåkornfonds in Trondheim. We have also facilitated testing facilities through the Norwegian Catapult system. The health industry needs test facilities for testing and testing new technologies and new solutions, and there may be a possibility here. We also have the ambition to strengthen the work of commercialisation from publicly funded research, and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries and the Ministry of Knowledge work among others. together about this. With this communication, we see business policy and health policy in context for the first time. My experience is that the message has been well received in industry, by researchers, among patients and those who use and work in the service. We set out with this message the course for a new Norwegian growth industry that also helps to solve an important societal challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e427	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e432	In many important issues to which the industry has asked for answers, the government chooses not to give answers in the communication, but says that they will later look at capital access – as the Minister was in his intervention – action plan for clinical studies, the role of the institute sector and innovative public acquisitions. There were not so many new clarifications in the state budget either. Privatisation reform and free treatment choices will continue to be financed, but it is less to create values and export revenues. I would like to mention that the government once again tried to shut down Investinor's direct investment mandate, the mature health clusters like Oslo Cancer Cluster and Norway Health Tech are in danger of losing their funding, and the catapult system in Siva is being reduced. Why is the Council of State not willing to provide the industry with the tools required when making a health nutrition notification?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e439	It is quite common in a big message to gather the different threads, also in processes that are not completely finished and should continue. Take the Capital Access Committee, which is my responsibility as Minister of Industry – at least partly – to follow up: We have not paused everything until health nutrition notification has been dealt with in Stortinget. Here are a number of things that follow up, and I mentioned something of it. The representative actually mentioned it himself in his question: A central recommendation in the Capital Access Committee is a new mandate for the Investinor. Then it is a practical question whether to combine it with the old mandate, but the very central recommendation of the Capital Access Committee is that Investinor should be given a new, flexible mandate, which increasingly adds to so-called fund-in-fund financing and other types of investment together with private ones. That's concrete follow-up. Collecting seed schemes and pre-seed schemes in Investinor in Trondheim, away from Innovation Norway, is a similar follow-up. Doing something about taxes on wealth and access to private capital is an equivalent follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e446	It's not surprising that giving less wealth taxes to everyone, often becomes a solution to Right's wishes, the rich will always invest more. But otherwise, when it is cut, it focuses little on it. We know that we spend most of our research resources on health nutrition and on researching health, but we are able to create little business out of it, less than our Nordic neighbours. What action in the Communication will the Minister make that will strengthen the industry's ability to develop viable businesses in this important future industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e453	The main overall measure in the Communication is that the health industry needs to have access to cooperation and access to development, together with the public health sector in Norway. That we have a publicly funded health system can be a strength for us in this context. But in my area, and which in and of itself also affects e.g. The areas of the Ministry of Knowledge, we can do important things. If I don't remember wrong, for example, This government strongly strengthened the revitalisation programmes, which go to the TTOs, i.e. the commercialisation of universities and higher education institutions. Now let's see if it works well enough. Many of the ideas to become a business – with the long development processes that healthcare businesses often have – come from universities, colleges and research environments. Being able to access capital at an early stage, not just from the state, is, in addition to that, an important priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e460	In the message, the government writes that they will facilitate ‘innovative acquisitions, including in health and care services’, but without discrepancy between ideal and commercial providers. As I understand it, there is now reason to fear that ESA will not accept the creation of a dedicated range of services only for non-profit organisations. If so, it will be even harder than today for non-profit providers to survive in this regime with acquisitions. My question is whether the Council of State can do what is in these assumptions, and what the government is doing to ensure non-profit healthcare providers.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e467	There are two completely different questions. Innovative public acquisitions were duly mentioned in the paper on acquisitions, which we delivered to the Stortinge in the current year. In concrete terms, this means that instead of ordering a pencil, you can order something you can write with to take a little bit of a banal example. We have also created a separate tool that allows you to develop it together with the provider of the goods or service, and in that way go a little beyond the usual tendering rules. It's absolutely vital to be able to bring about innovation. In the Granavolden Declaration, the government also has clear formulations to strengthen the non-profit sector. We want the contribution of the non-profit sector to be increased. It is also quite right that there is a process with ESA, where we need to find out how large this famous space for action in the EEA Agreement is. But our goal, on the part of the government, is both to have innovative public acquisitions and to ensure the ideal good growth conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e475	I think there's a lot of innovation going on in the non-profit sector, so the question too. But I have another question that goes on ICT. In 2015, the government promised that it would end a gigantic IT project. Now plan the Directorate for e-Health one of the largest IT projects in Norway history, and several actors in Health-Noreg react to it. In addition, the Directorate for eHealth is criticised, not to drive regulation, but to develop services themselves, thus preventing innovation and preventing Norwegian industry from participating. Is it true that the Council of State is satisfied with both the size of the project and how the Directorate for e-Health acts? Does this happen in a way that he as Minister of Industry can be content with?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e482	The concrete questions about how the Directorate for eHealth operates must of course be answered by the Minister for Health. We have the advantage that the Minister of Health is here too. I can say something general and general. Of course, sometimes the state has to take on major development projects, for example. to create a common infrastructure into which private operators can then enter. A general point, which has also been repeated in this Communication and which has been an important point for this Government – not necessarily for all lots in the opposition – is that, as a general rule, the State should not produce in its own right what may have been produced in the open market. There may be border missions, but that does not mean that it will always be right for the state to split up all projects. For example, creating a common digital infrastructure – again I speak in general – can be sensible and also provide better access for smaller, private players to the market later.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e489	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e494	In the patient’s healthcare system, the goal is to be able to master life with sickness and disability. Then we need new solutions, more accurate diagnostics and treatment, and not least new digital tools. Neither the public health service nor the business community can develop good solutions for each other. On the contrary, we need to open up more and better cooperation across industries and actors. Health and care have much to do with better cooperation with business. I want to work for both the Directorates and the hospitals to benefit from the innovative power, expertise and resources available in Norwegian companies. I believe that our starting point is the very best. We have a very good health and care service in Norway and an efficient and knowledgeable health management. We make large investments in health registers, in basic research, in applied research and in education and competence development. We have health data and biobanks that very many other countries envy us. That is, we have a solid basis for developing the health and care services of the future. That doesn't mean we've managed to fully realise our potential, but this message is a long and important step in the right direction. The communication highlights many important actions in several areas — which have also been addressed by the Minister of Industry. As Minister of Health, I would like to highlight in particular what is related to the culture of cooperation and the sharing of roles between private and public actors. Our overall message is that we must open up more cooperation. This does not happen by itself or through isolated individual measures. It is the sum of new measures and work already under way that will move in a positive direction. I have clearly informed the health regions and the Directorates that cooperation with the business community is essential for the development of a sustainable health and care service. It is important that cooperation is predictable and transparent. Employees need to feel confident that they do things the right way when working with business. Management must therefore ensure that guidelines and guidance are available and comprehensible. Many believe that the hospital funding system hinders innovation. In the national health and hospital plan, as the government presented on Friday, we point out that it is the content of the services that should determine funding — not who provides treatment, where treatment is given, or how treatment is given. The funding shall not prevent new and efficient ways of providing services. That is why we are further developing the financial instruments to facilitate the introduction of new forms of work and the increased use of technology in the service. Health is not entirely like other industries. An important distinction is the requirement that products to be used in humans must undergo extensive testing before patients can benefit from them. Clinical studies are an important part of the trial, and the government is committed to facilitating the participation of more people and the creation of more. Funding earmarked for hospital research, infrastructure development and indicators for clinical studies and innovation are important measures undertaken by the government in recent years. The Health Communication proposes measures to help even more patients have the opportunity to participate in clinical studies. We will present a separate action plan for clinical studies next year, and we are now making ‘A way in’ for the business community to cooperate with hospitals on such studies. I would also like to mention the great possibilities of making better use of our health records and biobanks. The establishment of a health analysis platform shall provide quicker and safer access to health data across registers and other data sources. The government expects much of this investment in the future. And as you can see, this is one of the main initiatives in the state budget for 2020. New and innovative solutions will give patients and users a better life. Health services need business, and business needs healthcare to develop better and more efficient medicines, products and services. This will also create jobs and values in the Norwegian economy – which in turn contribute to financing the well-being that we all want. Therefore, we need to facilitate a more profitable, competitive and innovative health industry. This message is the political answer to that very point.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e524	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e529	We want a health service that plays along with an innovative supplier industry, and the health nutrition message is the answer to that, ended its intervention by the Council of State. But the ambition of getting up the number of clinical studies, which is a very concrete example of how this cooperation is going on, is not new. It has been lifted year by year, and the expressed desire to get up the number of clinical studies has at the same time moved further and further away from reality. What we see is that the number of clinical trials goes down in Norwegian hospitals. The Labour Party has proposed a national clinical study programme. It's not getting a majority today. And the Minister of Health spoke about an action plan next year. My question to the Council of State is: How does he view the development of clinical studies in Norwegian hospitals? It doesn't go in the direction that any of us want.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e536	No, unfortunately, both the Nordic countries and Europe are losing the international battle for clinical studies, and unfortunately it also turns out in Norway, although we have taken a number of measures to try to reverse these developments both in Norway and in part of the other Nordic and European countries. It is also one of the reasons why we say that we are going to do more to get more clinical studies to Norway, in addition to the earmarked funds that we have through both the Research Council and the Health Regions. We will not least help to make it easier for the industry to add clinical studies to Norway by making one way in, one door in, to the public Norwegian health service, which I believe is a very important tool in this area. We also need to get better solutions for clinical trials across the Nordic countries, because some of the challenge we have, each of us, is that we have a too small patient population for some of the new clinical studies.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e543	One way in, the Minister of Health responds, and when it comes to accessing the data needed by industry, the answer is the health analysis platform. I agree that this is an important work, but we have also had processes that have looked at a more nationally anchored industrial cooperation, which also solves some of the other challenges associated with giving industry access to Norwegian health data, also to the material found in Norwegian biobanks. The Health Data Committee, which was set up by the Council of State, delivered its recommendation in June 2017. There were some recommendations, given by Biobank Norway, design on how the type of industrial cooperation can take place in a national model. Why has the health nutrition notification not taken any of these recommendations further and clarified the government’s position on them?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e552	All work in the Health Service Committee is done in the Ministry of Health and Welfare. The most important thing has been to give priority to what is the major economic promise: to put in place the health analysis platform, but also to the other issues related to the need for legislative changes and common authorisation schemes. All that work is in parallel and will also be followed up, so that we can ensure easier and more effective access to health data, but of course within ethical frameworks, which not least safeguard the individual's rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e557	The government's party type in the setting that KRY AS will try out a digital medicine watch as a pilot project, indicating that they need to be supported. Both the government councils and the government parties write that they ‘are engaged in innovation and innovation’. I think it's very problematic if you're going to commit to increasing the whole private general medical services at a time when the fixed medical system is in crisis. So I'd like to ask the Minister of Health if he thinks that the supply as a digital doctor in charge of KRY is part of the innovation and innovation that is mentioned in this message.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e562	The government has launched pilots in new ways to address medical watch challenges, including using digital instruments. They're already in place. I don't think KRY is in any of those projects. The Legacy Act is a municipal arrangement. This means that the pilots assigned to the medical watch system will have to be anchored in the municipalities responsible for the medical watch system. And then it's up to the municipalities of the different pilots if they want to cooperate with private actors in terms of the digital tools they might want to use in such a solution. In Norway, we have the fixed medical system. It has great plans for the government to take care of further. That's what should also be the main answer for the citizens, and then I'm very concerned that the fixed medical system becomes more digital, so that you get a digital fixed medical system and not digital disposable doctors in the Norwegian community.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e572	I'm actually happy with the answer. I felt that the Minister of Health didn't mean that the whole private people would get a pilot project – it had to be anchored in the public projects. I'm happy with that. I have another question, which actually goes on with what I asked the Minister of Industry, when it concerns the e-Health Directorate. They are known to be criticised for too large a project, and for projects that have in part received strong criticism in Denmark, as the common municipal journal system, plus that they are criticised for doing too much and not just regulating, so as to prevent innovation in the business world. I understand that the Health Minister is responsible for the e-Health Directorate. What do the Council of State think about this criticism of the e-Health Directorate, and what does he want to do about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e579	One of the things we do is we clean up the directorate's authority role, which is also mentioned in the state budget for 2020. We're separating parts of the e-Health Directorate, transferring it to Norsk Healthnet and getting a clearer distinction between the authority role and the order role. I perceive that some of the criticism has been alarmed at the industry by the e-Health Directorate having had these two roles in the same organisation. That made sense when we established it. Now it makes sense to break it up. I do not agree with the description of the projects as giant projects – on the contrary. The objective and vision of ‘one resident — one journal’ has just been divided by the government into manageable main projects, which can once again be divided into smaller projects. The first is what is now going on in the national testing arena, which is Health Mid-Norway, with the health platform for Mid-Norway, which is not driven by the e-Health Directorate, but by Health Mid-Norway and Trondheim Municipality in the driver's seat. Then there is the project municipal journal for the rest of the municipalities and the interaction solution and projects internally in the three other health regions. So these are manageable sizes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e588	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e593	The working party wanted a health industry message. We received a health nutrition message that included the right-hand side – probably – also the treatment part in the service, and how much room was provided for privatisation. We should have a consensus here, but the government would rather focus on the used political divisions in politics, and we will record that. The Labour Party believes that our common health service best ensures health care for everyone, no matter who you are, where you live, or how much money you have on the card. We also believe that our common health service plays best with an innovative supplier industry that can create products and services in the health of the world market. Health data from Norwegian health records and biobanks is a hot commodity that can give Norway new industry if managed just as wisely as oil and gas. This can help industry all over the world improve future diagnostics and treatment, thus bringing great social benefits, saving lives and creating quality of life. We have collected health-related personal information in registers, conducted population-based health surveys and established medical quality records for several decades. In addition, the biological material collected in biobanks. And remember, at least 1.5 million Northmen, that's 30 pst. by the population, has wanted to contribute to research through consent-based participation in health studies and has given blood samples and other biological samples to biobanks. At the top of it, Norway makes use of birth numbers, which make it possible to link health data from different sources. All of this is created for a commitment to machine learning and artificial intelligence, which we know has great momentum now. In training, these technologies need good data, precisely of the type that Norway has. Here are four commercial uses that clearly point out: One is the calculation of disease development, where companies in computer science and statistical analysis will be able to benefit from Norwegian health data, among others. to demonstrate how different conditions affect disease development. Diagnostic tools: Norwegian health studies and biobanks have data and samples from individuals before they became ill. This gives a unique chance to find early markers for disease development, such as substances in the blood that can be detected by screening — e.g. in the event of a serious disease such as cancer, which may lead to new screening programmes and improved treatment. Then we have the development of drugs, the most obvious, most often referred to. Health data are used at all stages of the life of a medicinal product, from initial basic research to registry studies and when the medicinal product is in normal use. The last obvious use is ICT, well-being technology and great machine learning, i.e. machine learning with great computing power. Norwegian health data may become important in the testing of these services and technological aids, which are used in healthcare and also at home. However, data access alone is not enough to make it so attractive that the large industry keeps coming to Norway. Leading companies in the industry want to cooperate briefly with the best research environments, and we continue to research so-called ‘unmet medical needs’ – perhaps insofar as we have done so far, where we also have Nobel Prize winners in basic research – then industry would prefer to come to Norway and invest in future knowledge and production here. Information-safe data sharing with industry should become a main priority for any government in the coming years, and it also partially confirms this notification. Health services will change dramatically in the future, not least through digitisation. Distance tracking, home care and personalised medicine are what we see in front of us. Taking the right grips, the health industry can give Norway a solid leg to stand on, just as solid as the steel base they stock on Kværner Verdal for Norwegian pedestal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e618	Today we adopted Norway's first report on health. It has been provided by the Minister of Industry and the Minister of Health, and for an area like this, the success factor is precisely in a cross-sectoral approach. Health has a high potential for growth, both nationally and internationally. By rethinking, the industry can provide good solutions for patients while securing new jobs. If we are to be happy, the authorities must facilitate the cooperation of the academia, industry and the public health service. The health industry consists of activities such as the development, manufacture and sale of goods and services for use in private and public health and care services or for use in prevention, diagnosis, treatment and rehabilitation after illness. This is a special industry. It depends on a well-functioning home market where the public is usually the main player, in parallel with a strictly regulated market, and that universities, universities and research communities are also closely linked. We have experienced a great deal of interest in the big business message from the industry. It's important. It is also important that the industry itself understands the market in which it operates. Several business simplifications have been made both fiscally and bureaucratically, and the nationwide nutrition rights systems for research and innovation have been strengthened. The health industry is using the schemes actively. There's a lot of investment in infrastructure. It is important that it is encouraged to interact and develop in all health regions. One must take great promise, but never stagnant development and innovation. In order to succeed in the main purpose of the message, artificial intelligence and access to large amounts of and varied types of health data are also a clear premise. The signal from the pharmaceutical industry has been clear here. A clinical trial in Norway is required to become more readily available. Safe use and rapid access to health data are now provided and incentives for the use of clinical studies are strengthened and further developed. This is important for the healthcare service for the patient and for our business to be able to hire in the international health industry. In the political work it has largely our touching cross-political unity in this matter. That's a good promise, but there's still a reason to take a little look at the ideological dividers, because even if they're few, it could be high barriers. For the Right, it is important that one of the objectives of health nutrition notification is just to make the private market and the public purchasers work better together, and here they have red-green in my view given themselves a very bad starting point. To label parts of the contributors as welfare professionals is poor as a starting point for good cooperation. Private service providers make up the largest part of the health care industry. These are service providers in care, psychiatry, drugs and somatics, and they are divided into private health services and private care services. These actors can be a driver of innovation by being able to experiment with new service models and introduce new technologies, and by filling niches that the public does not take on the market. But it costs to be first, and those who take a high risk in an innovation phase also have to expect ignition later. We need interaction, we need a stronger culture for cooperation, and we need better dialogue between health care, academics and business.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e637	Health is a good example of how new industries in Norway need to be developed. These include: the need for much better interaction between health, industry and research. It is also important to understand the specificities of the different actors in health, of the economic operators and not least of the research. It is important that those working in health see that they benefit from cooperating and investing in the health industry. There is currently an international race in the use of health data. Norway needs to set itself up to increase the use of our health records to develop new diagnostic tools, new treatment options and prevention measures. Therefore, the Workers’ Party calls for a continuation of work on establishing a health analysis platform and an analytical ecosystem that can not only handle health data but also genetic data, molecular analytical responses from biobanks and other types of large data. Since I started working with the health industry, I have changed the committee, and yesterday I met with the energy sector. The petroleum industry has developed modelling tools, using large data, where it now sees a high potential to transfer it to the health sector. One of the major barriers is the fear that health data are not being treated safely. It is therefore necessary to establish a common national framework with clear driving rules relating to contractual works, intellectual property rights, data ownership, consent management, privacy and data sharing. The UN and the EU are very clear that increasing innovation is needed to rig tomorrow’s healthcare. Norway, with its public health services, has a better starting point than many other countries. The pharmaceutical industry is a strong global industry, and we therefore need to strengthen the capacity of hospitals and municipalities to order, so that we also prioritise resources properly, use research resources and develop where the needs and opportunities are greatest. The Labour Party also believes that we need to ensure that the community receives its fair share of value creation. There is a need to develop new business models that provide a fair distribution of added value between public — including the value of health data — researchers and business actors. More healthcare will take place in the future community health service, and one of the major challenges is the increasing number of chroniclers who are dependent on long-term follow-up from both primary and specialist health services. Developing better treatment provision and a well-being technology that improves life expectancy will provide great health benefits for individuals and for society. There's a real need for innovation here. The Labour Party proposes earmarked research resources, and that interdisciplinary teams – for which we need to work in a new way –are composed of researchers, different health services and business actors, with a strong focus on the user perspective. Norway is leading global health research and has good results in the animal and fish health sector. We have achieved this, among others. as a result of the development of fish vaccines and the control of MRSA in the animal population. The Labour Party is therefore surprised that global health and veterinary medicine has not been part of the government health nutrition notification. Here we believe that this is a great potential. There are few industries where I have met such a strong commitment as in the health industry. The working party has tried to sharpen the measures in line with input, and we have prioritised the areas that we believe will have the greatest impact on the development of the health industry today. Then I have two comments on what appeared earlier today. One is the TTOs. There I saw that there was a review, and that is quite similar to the feedback I received from the industry. They feel that the TTOs are too little hungry, and that the TTOs sell the companies too early instead of helping to develop them. I have also received feedback from those who work within our university hospitals that it is important to invest even more in research-driven clinical studies. They experience that it takes too much time to process the applications through the State Medicines Agency. In conclusion, I think we have a good starting point for everything, and I hope that the health care industry and healthcare will be active in order to get good results. We achieve it through interaction in this area as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e662	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e667	Norway will fail to build a larger health industry if current suspicions against commercial operators are maintained. Health is not just a cost item; it is also the production, research and export of products that give better and longer lives. The willingness to pay for health-related products is high, as is the degree of innovation. Norway has all the prerequisites for success, but I fear the culture of Health-Norway. The dominant view of Norwegian health services, academia and health bureaucracies is that health cannot or should not be linked to concepts such as value creation and industrial workplaces. It's gross, because that kind of tanker is preventing more innovation. A more developed health industry will provide patients with better treatment provision, while Norway creates new jobs and new export revenues. We have to set a new course. We must prioritise tougher and demand that public funds should also trigger private funds and more early-stage capital for start-up enterprises. In order to attract more international competence and capital, we need to strengthen Norwegian host make-up activity. The public procurement regime needs to be changed. Today, the safe purchases are being premiered while the innovation element is being ignored. It is not so easy for a Norwegian supplier to enter other markets when the domestic market is not open to innovation. The size of the medicinal product notification suggested that innovation should be a separate criterion. This is somewhat too often overlooked in public procurement. Today, Norway lacks an overall value chain and an ecosystem for the health industry that is moving in the same direction and that provides ground for growth. The fundamental obstacle to building a Norwegian health industry is the lack of a culture of commercialisation. Getting associated with the health industry gives the non-commercial actors in health care dirty hands. This means that it feels almost impossible to go from health care and academy to industry and back again. It's either--or. Furthermore, it is unfortunate that health services prefer to develop their own solutions, without an industrial focus, and that public R & D efforts are not designed to trigger private money as well. The cultural scepticism between the non-commercial and commercial sectors of healthcare leads to poor interaction. The results are few clinical studies and indicative structures that are not coordinated between the sectors. In summary, the Norwegian health industry faces the following challenge picture: anti-commercial focus in bureaucracy, health care and academia limited production capacity critical structures that strike each other, and that do not create innovation; few locomotives and front figures non-coordinated instruments too few clinical studies Both politicians and health leaders need to be clear that culture needs to change here. The health industry notification is a notification for a more commercial culture. If we want to become a global power in the health industry, this must be implemented in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e703	At a time when we are facing major challenges and not least high expectations in the health and care sector, enhanced cooperation between the health industry and the public sector will be necessary. It could give us more benefits, patients get a better offer, healthcare becomes more efficient and sustainable, and we get a boost from a knowledge-based industry that contributes to profitable jobs. Norway has ambitions to be a leader in e-health in Europe. In order to achieve this, we need a digital lift, and the Stortinget has joined the target image of ‘One Inhabitant — One Journal’. It has to be chiseled out in a direction to address the major needs of municipalities, and the Directorate for e-Health will look at how it can be resolved. In order for the patient to receive good health care, we need to ensure that relevant information follows the individual. Good, safe e-health solutions are a prerequisite for this. A new eHealth Act is being consulted and shall contribute to better national coordination and governance of national eHealth services. The health sector faces tasks that it cannot solve alone, and it is therefore essential to strike a good balance and a proper distribution of the tasks of the public sector and the contribution of other actors. Our foundation is, and should be, a strong public health service. The health industry encounters obstacles and barriers that require multi-employer efforts. Interaction and trust must be the basis for the use of health data, and our common health data must benefit more people. Just as we donate organs, we need to share more health data that can benefit others. Norway has comprehensive and valuable health data to help find answers to puzzles that have not yet been solved. The Health Analysis Platform will cut down on unnecessary red tape and could contribute to more thorough and effective research. I am also concerned about the importance of facilitating clinical studies in Norway. Part of the follow-up to the health nutrition notification is to start work on an action plan for clinical studies. Several initiatives have been taken to ensure greater flexibility in how personalised medicine can find its place in the system. Health care should provide the public with safe and efficient services and, in order to achieve this, it is important that public enterprises make use of the opportunities to create innovation through their acquisitions. Good interaction between private business and the public sector is necessary to address future needs for welfare services in Norway. Then we also need more profitable businesses in the health industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e724	In March, the Labour Party promoted a proposal for a representative on the vulnerability to drug shortages. The background was that in 2015 we had 141 fault cases. This year's estimate is that we're going to get about. 1 400. It's a four-year tidal cycle. I understand that there are largely international conditions that affect this. The pursuit of profit results in a fragmentation that leads to one being dependent on one factory, for example: India, which produces one active substance for one medicinal product. Then it's not nice that you're vulnerable. An overall opposition pointed to the possibilities for increased self-production of vital drugs in hospitals when we considered this proposal for a representative. But when we deal with this matter, there is a potential here that we can also see public-private cooperation that can lead to an increase in the self-production of medicines. Such a combination, with increased self-production, will help us, together with private actors, to improve security of supply while creating jobs in Norway. And I also understand that we definitely can't take everything in that field when it comes to challenges. But something is better than nothing, and it could be a win-win situation. That is why I am pleased that the opposition in this matter is promoting its own proposals, in which a request from the government revealed the possibilities for producing e.g. penicillin, but also other particularly important medicinal products in Norway. It's a thought I had hoped that the government parties too would be involved. Then I'd like to say hello. On 30 August, the Centre opened I4Health at the University of Agder in Grimstad. I4Health is just a collaboration between municipalities, universities, businesses and users to develop new technologies, innovation, health research and practices. Better health care through cooperation is the key to work in this field in the future, and it also provides opportunities to create the jobs of the future, while at the same time improving people's lives. It's not like the Workers' Party has an allergy to having a private in this field, but sometimes we might be able to control the enthusiasm because the right side seems to think that everything should be commercialized. We have to find a good balance, I think we do, and I believe that a project that I4Health is contributing to that. I hope, at least, that both the magnificence and the government will be involved in bringing forward the kind of initiative that we are looking at today at Agder. It would be good for Agder, for business, for health and also for Norway if we could say together: Look to Agder!
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e736	Clearly, it is important that we have been notified for the first time about the health industry. The industry is a future industry. We have a good foundation in our investment in research, we have some excellent environments, and Norway has definite capital to invest. It has been discussed whether there is a reason to fasten today or not. I'm sorry to say that this message and the processing of it a little bit becomes a story of lost opportunities. When Stortinget ordered the notification, they said they would have an investigation into how the industry could gain access to risk capital. This Communication merely states that the government will assess the recommendation, including for the health sector, from the Capital Access Committee. The size ordered an action plan for clinical studies, and now the notification mentions the need to look at and perhaps create an action plan for clinical studies. It is said that the possibility of using residual capacity in laboratories, testing and piloting infrastructures can be explored. Why did it not come in this message? The role of the institution sector shall be assessed, whether the country should play a role in common international profiling and facilitate the use of innovative acquisitions. All this wanted Stortinget to hear about in this message. It is not likely that there will be a new health nutrition notification for primary treatment with the first. There have been very many good proposals during the discussion of the communication from many interested hearing bodies. Many of them are being promoted here today by a minority, but unfortunately many of the proposals that have emerged will be voted down. It seems that we need to wait for a new number of large numbers to implement many of the good proposals that the discussion of the communication has made.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e747	There is currently an international race for access to and use of health data in research, insight analysis, artificial intelligence and machine learning, which is of great importance for the development of better health care and industrial development. Norway has comprehensive and valuable long-term health data and health data are an increasingly important tool in the development of medicinal products and in the field of health and welfare technologies. It is therefore important that Norway is an attractive partner and that Norwegian health data remain relevant, valid and of good quality in the future. One must not underestimate the importance of bilateral and international cooperation in health research and innovation. The communication we are debating now outlines well how public health data are important for the development of the health industry. The Christian People's Party is therefore pleased that the government has started its work on the development of the health analysis platform. It shall provide better, faster, fairer and safer access to health data across health records and other relevant data sources. The Health Analysis Platform shall also facilitate the provision of advanced analyses across different data sources. It is good, but in this context it is important for us in the Christian People's Party to stress the need for strong privacy in developing this platform. Better transparency services, better opportunities for providing and withdrawing consent and better tracing of the use of information are necessary. The hearing in the case showed that there is a very high interest in access to Norwegian health data, both from national and international actors. Therefore, the issue of adequate protection of privacy is central to the launch of the Health Analysis Platform. For the Christian People's Party, it's important that this is done correctly. It will be crucial for the use of health data, so that we get the full impact of the potentially important tool contained in this comprehensive and strongly requested data material.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e760	There will be twice as many older people in Norway over the next 20 years. This occurs at the same time as the proportion of working age falls, while the Norwegian economy has to be converted into less oil dependent. What's important about the health industry is that it both helps create jobs and lets us solve the health challenges we face. What are we going to live on in the future? There is a question that many have asked, including the Minister of Industry. We're going to live by innovation and industrialisation that helps solve the health and social challenges. We are not going to live by privatising treatment and care in municipalities and hospitals. We're not going to live by giving employees a lower salary and a lower pension. Several have indicated that the number of clinical studies in Norway is falling. This negative trend must be reversed. It has to be turned around because both patients and businesses are losing on this. Norway is a rather small and transparent market. It has its advantages, but it also has some constraints. Several economic operators point out that Norway can be a good test and development market, but then they have to let go. I have previously challenged the Minister of Health on the example of Mentis Cura, a Norwegian health technology company that has found a method of diagnostics of dementia. They're telling us that they're struggling to get into the Norwegian market, while at the same time they've made a commitment in the billions class with Japan. For these companies it is difficult – and it looks strange – when you cannot show results in your own home market when you are going to sell your goods internationally. There are great opportunities in the health industry. It is important that we take care of them to solve the major challenges we face, and we in the Workers' Party are ready to be involved in that job.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e773	The Norwegian economy today is very dependent on one large sector. I think we all agree that we need more large industries in Norway that can contribute both values and jobs. At the same time, the welfare state faces major challenges in the coming years. We're getting older, and we're living longer. This leads to an increase in the incidence of diseases such as cancer and dementia. Increased standard of living and technological progress are increasing public service expectations. In addition, we need to solve the climate crisis. Now I don't think all these problems are solved by a health nutrition message, but I think it's a good step in the right direction. The benefits of investing in health industries are many. Health industries can contribute to more efficient use of resources in public health services, increased value creation, new profitable jobs in the private sector and better provision of health services to the population. New health and welfare technologies can help people to live in owner-occupied dwellings any longer. It can contribute to better treatment through, for example: new medicinal products, more effective diagnosis and the latest in medical-technological equipment. However, this means that the public must dry up to take the chance of letting private operators into their work, through, for example: innovative acquisitions. Perhaps the biggest challenge here is to make health industries grow. It is therefore good that this Communication addresses culture of cooperation. For Oslo, this message is good news. There is already an environment for health industries in this city, and the potential is even greater. The Radium Hospital and Oslo Cancer Cluster are a good example of a successful arena for collaboration between public, commercial and academic actors. There is the potential for several such arenas in Oslo. Now there will be a new Life Science building in the Research Park, and with a new hospital in Gaustad, we will potentially have another environment that hopefully can contribute to growth, new innovative businesses and better health care for the inhabitants. There is a high potential in the health industry in Norway. It is a knowledge industry that can help create jobs, value creation and at the same time solve major societal challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e784	In his speech earlier in the debate, the Minister of Economic Affairs said that the government's policy is taking the health industry well. I have been following up and wondering in the course of the debate on which parts of the health industry the government's policy is taking well, because it's really hard to see it, based on both the debate, the vote and the big message. From a business perspective, it is at least very interesting to look at the possibilities of commercialising and industrialising some of the amazing things that are happening in the Norwegian health care system, both in terms of research, and also to produce good ideas and solutions for how to do things. Then it is at least difficult to find a basis for inviting you to a party. On page 110 of the Communication, the Government's ambitions are to strengthen the commercial results of publicly funded research, etc. They want, among other things: «assess incentives for the commercialisation of research results in the university and higher education sectors, with emphasis on implications for health enterprises». Apart from that, there's no concrete thing. Then you have a talk about 5 minutes with the health care industry and those who are concerned about developing and industrialising the good results and the good conditions we have within our public health system, and that's just a lack of capital. When the Minister of Industry was challenged by it in the line change here, he did not really have an answer. The basis for ensuring increased commercialisation, increased industrialisation, at least as we meet the health industry, is access to capital, access to test facilities and long-term patience and patience on the way from idea to commercialisation. Although the debate may have been coming to an end now, it is a little bit of a shame that we have got the first big message for the health industry presented and addressed in the Stortinget, but we can't see in any way what the government parties think about commercialization. The opposition has a number of proposals that go into this precisely by getting more capital into the phase from research/idea to industrialisation, but it is not being followed up. It has also not been followed up in the announcement by the government. Based on the fact that this is the first health nutrition notification submitted, for the health industry, commercialisation and industrialisation, there are no solutions or suggestions for solutions from government parties, and I see no basis for inviting you to a party tonight based on what has been presented here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e797	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e814	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: The allocated speaking time shall be limited to 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines will be given with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Those who had to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e825	I have noticed that a Joint Nutrition Committee recommends that the Storting adopt the proposals for changes to the share law. That's good. The proposals implement parts of an amending Directive to the Shareholders’ Rights Directive. The overall objective of the Directive is to increase the long-term involvement of shareholders in listed companies. Institutional investors and capital managers are central shareholders in listed companies. The Directive imposes this transparency on ownership and investment. The Government proposes that actors develop and publish guidelines on active shareholdership or publish an explanation as to why they have not developed guidelines. The changes shall increase the influence of shareholders on the remuneration policies of the companies. Transparency about the wage policy of directors is central to giving shareholders real influence. Transparency can contribute to the setting of leadership salaries at a level that promotes the long-term interests of companies and contributes to sustainable value creation. The current requirements for guidelines on directors’ salaries in listed companies are being extended. In addition, an annual salary report shall be drawn up. The Government proposes rules implementing the Directive requirements on related party transactions. Increased transparency can prevent abuse of the company's resources, including: listed companies shall publish notices of such agreements. In the case of limited liability companies and non-listed public limited liability companies, the proposed amendments involve less processing and reduced costs. Among other things, the minimum threshold is proposed to increase to NOK 100000 and the authorisation competence to be transferred to the board. At the same time, the government proposes to clarify the responsibilities of the board. The government proposes amendments to the share laws on the use of the company's own funds as part of the financing for the purchase of the shares in the company. The changes strengthen the responsibility of the board for the interests of the company, while providing greater flexibility. Among other things, a block exemption is proposed in the Share Act when the buyer is part of a group with the company or when the purchase forms a group. The right to provide financial assistance to employees’ share capital does not change. The Government intends to submit proposals to implement the remaining parts of the Directive in spring 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e844	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e849	This is a matter of great agreement. I want to focus a little bit on a point in the proposition that usually doesn't get so much attention, namely the economic and administrative consequences. It says that for the companies the proposals will lead to increased financial and administrative burdens. Then the question to the Council of State is: Does the Council of State see any possibility of taking action to minimise the financial and administrative burden on businesses?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e856	It probably draws a little bit of both ways, because, as I said in my post, it is also that for limited liability companies and unlisted public limited liability companies, the amendments involve less processing and reduced costs. Among other things, the minimum threshold is proposed to increase to NOK 100000 and the authorisation competence to be transferred to the board. It's moving towards less bureaucracy. But when there are directives, we are always concerned that we should make administrative burdens as simple as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e861	I thank you for your answer. When it comes to the claim that the proposals will lead to an increase in financial and administrative burdens, it is not something I have invented. There's something in the proposition that the Council of State has put forward. To use an expression that the state council itself is happy to use: I assume the state council has read the proposition. When one is going to paint this, one travels around with a so-called simplification bill, does the Council of State risk taking the simplification measures contained in this proposal as simplifications, while one cannot include the distortion measures contained in this proposal? Because, as the proposition also shows, prices are not proposed for the moment.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e868	As I said in my previous answer, there is the thing in this proposal that draws in both directions. As far as simplification is concerned, there is a method — I have to admit that I cannot explain it in detail — to calculate what are social savings and savings for business in simplification. In the Granavolden Declaration – because we are constantly concerned about improving ourselves and getting even better at simplifying business – the government has also said that we should look at net simplifications. In other words, there may also be things that make business more expensive. Our goal is not just to ensure that the simplification accounts look good on the one hand, but that, in total – net – there should be simplifications.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e875	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e894	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will organise the debate as follows: The allocated speaking time shall be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e903	The Red representative's proposal on fair and social alternatives to tolls contains six concrete proposals pointing to a new scheme of toll rebates for those with low income. One proposal is to ask the government to assess the social impact of tolls and various social moderation schemes, including road pricing models. The other proposals address actions directly related to the roll-out of the national transport plan. No one in the Committee has promoted these proposals but points to the work and process of the National Transport Plan. The priority between road construction, rail and sea must be part of this work. We know that the transport sector represents 30 pst. of all greenhouse gas emissions in Norway and that the road sector accounts for the largest share of this. There is no doubt that tolls are a flat fee that does not take into account people’s income or whether there is a real alternative to the private car, and there is no doubt that tolls burden unfairly. Tolls have until now had two purposes. One is to finance important road projects and thus to develop them more quickly. The second is to limit road traffic in built-up areas. The summer's debate and resistance to tolls and government toll settlements were special. Next year's government budget, which we are now working on, now shows what this reconciled the country on. But there is still a lot that is unclear, both for our cities, for the major road projects, and not least for the future plans that lie in the national transport plan. At Stortinget, there is a real majority to consider a fairer road pricing as an alternative to tolls, but the Christian People's Party's entry into government seems to have given the Progress Party an opportunity to stop this work. The Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party promoted each of their proposals in the Stortinget on this in 2018, and we in the Workers' Party believe that such an investigation should look at the kind of technological solutions that can be taken into account, which of today's car-related charges can or should best be included and replaced by a new charging system based on road pricing, and estimates of what the mileage charges will be for cities and countries and for different vehicles at different times of the day. We need to look at the climate perspective, geographically guided tariffs, time perspective and transitional arrangements. We are therefore promoting in the matter that is now on the table, a proposal together with SV, proposal No. 1, which reads: ‘The government is asking for a fair road pricing to compensate for today’s tolls and other user-related car charges.’ I'm addressing this proposal. Proposal No. 2 by the Centre Party, and proposals Nos. 3 and 4, from SV, we from the Workers' Party will support subsidiaryly. With regard to the solutions to the matter, from Red, we will not support them, but point out, as I said earlier, the work on the national transport plan and our proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e927	The representative Kirsti Leirtrø has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e932	The proposer addresses important issues. These are other ways of financing transport projects, but also the question of whether we can arrange toll collection in other ways. It concerns the level of tolls on large public road projects, but at the same time it is emphasised that Red – like other parties on the left-hand side of Norwegian policy – does not want large-scale road projects at all. The harvest's heated debate on toll collection led to quite a movement in the stock of voters. So far, extensive collection has been accepted because the roads are completed before toll collection begins. The goods are delivered before the customer has to pay. By contrast, the urban growth agreements have become discredited because those who pay do not understand what they get back for the money. The fact that many people choose to drive collectively increases the availability of those who actually have to drive a car is not always a good answer. Many of the proposals promoted by the representative of Moxnes in this Document 8 reflect this debate. I'll make some points of view on this. Most parts of the Stortinget have accepted tolls for 30 years as part-financing of urban packages and stretch projects. The Bergen package was the first city package – the second was the Oslo package, today known as Oslopackak 1. The use of cars and traffic problems increased sharply in Oslo and Akershus in the 1970s and 1980s. The E18 then crossed the Town Hall Square and the E6 through Vålerenga and the Old Town. The objective of Oslopackak 1 was to relieve centres and a number of residential areas for noise, insecurity and pollution from transit traffic and to develop an efficient and secure main road network. Within Oslopackak 1 there was an investment of 11 billion. kr in current value from 1990 to 2001. That's equal to 24 billion. kr in 2015 value. Of these funds, 3.9 billion was. kr invested in Akershus and SEK 7.1 billion. kr in Oslo. The toll percentage was 56.4 p.m. With tolls, the rate of expansion could increase dramatically. The first project was the E18 Fortress Tunnel, which has now become part of the Opera Tunnel. The project was financed by a loan. Toll collection started first with the opening of the tunnel in 1990. This led to a clear improvement in traffic conditions in Oslo Centre. The town hall was completely car-free in 1994, when the Western Railway Cross was also built. Although the largest money in Oslopacket 1 went to major road projects, significant improvements were also made in the collective provision, including the provision of services. priority for crossing buses and trams, upgrading of terminals and stops, and measures for T-roads and trams. Examples of measures are the upgrading of the Røaban with a streamline and a level-free crossing, the extension of the T-Bahn to Skandrud and Mortensrud and the bus terminal on Lillestrøm. It is worth noting that it is the major road projects in the Oslo packages that have formed the basis for the urban renewal in Oslo and the more central parts of Akershus, and made it possible to improve the collective offer. Oslopackak 3 has been the model for other urban packages and urban growth agreements since 2006. A steering group of politicians from the four largest parties in Oslo and Akershus, the Labour Party, the Advance Party, the Right and the Socialist Left – the Progress Party, however, only in Oslo – presented a unanimous proposal for a new Oslo package in spring 2006. This is still referred to as ‘the local proposal’. The strength of the proposal was that there was not only an agreement between the Municipality of Oslo and Akershu County, but that it had wide political acceptance down to the project level. This is what has been the great strength of the Oslo Packages. The use of tolls revolved around the end of the 1990s and the first decade of the 2000s on user payments. In recent years there has been a wider perspective – the term ‘polluter pays’ has emerged. In the largest cities, one also has a knowledge of land scarcity, which is a challenge. Tolls are currently used both for the co-financing of large projects, for the operation of public transport, as a means of accelerating the green shift and as a traffic regulation measure. It is a unanimous committee that rejects the proposal for Document 8. With regard to the other minority proposals, I would like to point out that proposal No. 1 has been dealt with earlier, as the rapporteur explained. As far as the other proposals are concerned, this could be considered in the context of the investigation of new technologies. However, I would like to point out that there are other interventions than tolls that should take account of the social challenges we face.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e957	The proposer points out that tolls are a flat fee that does not take account of people’s income or whether there is a real alternative to private car rental. The proposer also shows that many of the toll-funded projects are based on loans and that this is low socio-economic. We in the Central Party agree on that. Norway is a long-distance country with considerable differences. Solutions that work well around the big cities do not necessarily work well elsewhere in the country. In many parts of Norway, there are no good alternatives to private cars. A new system of other ways to collect and distribute money will ensure lower car-related taxes and less red tape. None of what we've looked at now seems to have that as our goal. In our alternative budget, the Centre Party will reduce the tax on petrol and diesel, but one should also, as a principle for all toll projects, assume that if the project becomes more reasonable than assumed, the toll share is also expected to be reduced. The centre party believes that the use of a private car is necessary in large parts of the country, while in the largest cities more attention needs to be paid to collectives, bicycles and corridors. I Prop. 1 S for 2019-2020, the State budget, a proposal was made to increase the subsidies from the State to the urban packages, from 50 to 66 p.m., in line with the toll agreement of the autumn. Half of these means should be used to reduce tolls in the package, while the other half should go towards strengthening public transport. The center part wants to redeploy 500 million. kr of this for building growth agreements. The toll payment has shot speed during today's government. Expected toll collection in 2019 is 13 billion. kr. Tolls payable, i.e. the amount of tolls remaining to be paid has also increased dramatically during the current government. Since 2013, the number of toll services has increased from 170 to 245. Too much of the toll goes to interest and office work. This could have been avoided if the government had implemented the Central Party's proposal on State guarantee for toll debt. The Central Party considers that the State should assume guarantee liability for existing national toll projects. With the large amount of toll financing received on state highways, it seems unreasonable that municipalities and county municipalities should act as guarantors of their own roads. The lot referred to Decision 738 from 15 May 2018. Where the Stortinget decided, on a proposal from the Centre Party, to ask ‘the Government to assess whether it is appropriate for county municipalities to continue to provide guarantees for national toll loans and to return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner’. The government continues to consider this in its proposal for the 2020 government budget. Follow-up to this Decision could be a contribution to reducing the toll burden. Since the Solberg government came to power in 2013, the Stortinget has adopted toll projects for 235 billion. kr. The centre party is concerned about money laundering and large-scale projects offering too high bomb prices. The centre batch supports the introduction of tolls when it is a local request. The centre batch has proposed measures to reduce tolls, including: State loan guarantee. The centre party does not want people who do not have good alternatives to use a car to be penalised unnecessarily hard with tolls. Business depends on good infrastructure throughout the country. It involves the construction of large road projects, but not least the expansion and maintenance of existing infrastructure. Norway’s Lastebilgeier-Verbund states quite clearly that it is important in many contexts to maintain and improve county roads and smaller national roads in order to maintain an active business throughout the country. Criteria for what is described as socio-economic gains can be seen in many contexts as being sparse, and the Centre Party is engaged in projects that benefit people and businesses throughout the country. I'd like to refer to the proposal of the Central Party in Innst. 412 S for 2018-2019, to ask ‘the government to assess the economic savings that can be made and the reduction in cropland that can be achieved through a change from the planned four-field to a 2/3-field road’. This could also be a contribution to reducing the toll burden on the drivers. The central party believes that the proposals in this setting are partly poorly matched geographically and socially, and they create a larger and unbridled system of more bureaucracy. In recent years, charges have increased, including: tolls, which go beyond those with the lowest income, since the charge does not take into account the ability to pay. The Central Party believes that a large-scale report on charging policy should be provided, which also assesses the social consequences of tolls, and the Centre Party will promote this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e989	The representative Bengt Fasterale has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e994	I'm wearing a tie today. It's not that often I have it, but it's because of the front page of the Evening Post today. I'm not going to elaborate on that particular matter, because now I'm going to stick to the other matter. This is one of several proposals that came into the wake of the toll riot before the fall elections. And sail over several of these fissures that were then made, especially by the right parties, which turned out to be more populist weathermen, such as. in the Drammen, however, there are important and healthy justice issues that arose in the context of the toll debate. For fees are unsocial, as several representatives have said – they hit flat. There are many charges. This is, of course, the distribution party SV very concerned about, it should just be missing, and I will come back to that. All first: SV is probably the party in this room that has been facing most toll projects in recent years. Of course, this is because we have gone against so many major motorway projects or wanted to scale them down somehow. Only in our blessed bulk population – all the big batches – toll propositions of over 20 billion. kr. I believe that the representatives in this Chamber remember very well, and many were broken. They were so broken that they looked down in the floor, but they lifted their eyes just so high that they managed to push the yes-button on the desk. SV voted against. And then we're at an important point: Tolls aren't just tolls. SV and the environmental parties have supported the urban packages, urban growth agreements, with tolls as a tool in cities, just to change behaviour and now the zero growth target for traffic in the centre. Everyone agrees that this is a very effective tool because the money goes to collective bets, at the same time it's going to sweat something to drive into town. Durable and well used, maybe, but whip and carrots still work. SV is therefore opposed to the major motorway projects for environmental, land and resource use reasons. SV want a more sustainable development of the road network, safe routes of use and highways based on the recommendations of the State Road Service – with much greater points of two- and three-field roads. I have earlier here from the pulpit referred to the 2015 State Road Service National Road Survey, which was just sober, and which fully met the requirements for good traffic management on the national road network. But the government put it aside and developed its own highway plan instead – several billion dollars more expensive by 2050. Not long ago, on the mission of the Ministry, the State Road Administration also presented a new report on costs and efficiency on two and three-field roads compared to four-field roads. Again, it was concluded that two- and three-field roads were largely maintained and were much more economic and socio-economic in traffic volumes between 8 000 and 20 000 ÅDT. Probably this came back to the Council of State as an ever-small political boomerang, who had ordered the investigation. It might not have been this answer that the speedy and slightly asphalt-like government council from the Progress Party wanted. So for tolls and social considerations: SV has always referred to the party's total policy on how their arrangements will turn out in different families, and then SV will come out very well, sail if we go in for tolls in the cities. This is, of course, due to smaller taxes for all with less than SEK 600 000 in income, cheaper kindergarten and SFO, better welfare schemes, etc. We thought it was a little too simple straw straw to attack in the election campaign, as some parties did, when the tolling party breathed us into our necks and referred to road pricing as the redeeming word, the magic form itself. Well, the Progress Party did not refer to it, because it could be that the drivers would pay something to use the roads. But the others did it, also SV, but I never said that this was the solution now, or tomorrow, because it was throwing blues in the eyes of people. The technology is not quite there – the cars are not equipped with this yet, nor the infrastructure – but it comes. Obviously, it does, right around the corner, in a few years. Then we have a great tool to take certain political action, if we want to. Then we can add about all the criteria we want: car type, emissions, distance, where you drive, when you drive, yes, even family finances. So we are part of some amendments to the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Moxnes. I'm going to deal with the proposals. 3 and 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e1017	The representative Arne Nävra then addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e1022	‘If there’s one thing I can promise here and now, it’s that one of the first things we’ll do when we get into government is to remove all the toll stations.’ This said Progress Party leader Siv Jensen as early as 2009. But what happened after the Progress Party came into government in 2013? Every year after that, they've been able to set toll records. There have never been so many toll stations around the country – now over 250. Never before have so much tolls been paid, calculated at 13 billion. kr in year. The party of progress has not only used government power on toll cords but also on increasing inequalities further. Three out of ten households have less to walk with after Siv Jensen got his hand on the steering wheel. Among these are many minimum pensioners, disabled and lonely dependants. The advance party toll cords may not be able to get the full credit for the big toll uprising that came, for people paid all the toll before as well. There are more and more people who are following. NAF figures show that, naturally, people with the lowest income experience being hit hardest by increased tolls. The economic inequality also contributes to most people experiencing that they rarely or never have influence over politics. Tolls are a way of limiting car traffic that allows the richest to escape. It's a flat tax that doesn't take into account people's income, or whether there are real alternatives to motorism. Although those with high incomes account for more passages in the bombing than those with low incomes, the hardest hit are those who have poor advice and who lack alternatives to driving when, for example, they do. shall provide children in the nursery. In practice, tolls can contribute to a greater geographical and social class distinction. Tolls are currently being used to finance all or part of motorway development and urban packages combined with road development, public transport, bicycles and corridors. Today’s system has several problems, both in terms of funding, justice and – not least – environmental and district policies. Many of the toll-funded projects are based on loans. For example, for the Bergen urban package: is in excess of 20 billion. kr through tolls, but only 11 billion. kr of these shall be used for track, road, tunnel and other concrete infrastructure. Six billion. kr disappears due to administration and SEK 7.5 billion. kr disappears in net interest expense. A total of $9.1 billion disappears. kr – i.e. 45 pst. of the tolls – for purposes other than those for which they are required. It is not surprising that people react to tolls when such a large proportion does not go for the purpose for which it is required. Transport is the largest source of greenhouse gas emissions in Norway. Road traffic accounts for more than half of these emissions. Transport policy must therefore help to reduce road traffic by strengthening the options. Building new roads does not lead to less queues, it increases environmental problems. Tolls do not allow us to get more traffic across the track and sea, and it does not ensure faster and reliable trains throughout the country. Tolls cause several motorways to be built in central areas where road is already in place, thus increasing road traffic at the expense of more environmentally friendly alternatives. In the Granavolden platform, the government has promised that it will be possible to deduct toll costs from the tax. Firstly, this scheme never seems to be coming – it was advertised in the election campaign, but it did not come. Secondly, that system will not contribute to social cohesion but will only strengthen the rich's ability to pay off the pollution problem. We in Red maintain our own proposals on the matter, and we will vote subsidiaryly for the minority proposal No. 1 for the proposals No. 2 and No 4, but against proposal No. 3 from SV, for this is covered by our own suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e1041	The representative Seher Aydar has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e1047	The debate we have had so far today, actually reveals two quite different approaches, from the opposition and from the government party. It's the government party that actually leads a policy that helps cut city and country tolls. The opposition's policy helps to give the same tax on caristics a different name. Red is quite an honorable exception, which I really feel will reduce the tax on the car list, with the result that they will not build roads either. It also distinguishes Red significantly from today's government party, which is able to do both with the level of tolls, while road construction is at a pace Norway has never seen fit to – because it is necessary, because new infrastructure in much of this country is what links new construction and labour market regions, because shorter travel time for the goods of Norwegian business is what makes us competitive in the private sector, that we have profitable jobs in the districts, and that we actually have value creation in this country that enables us to continue to drive our common well-being forward. These are differences in the Red Party and the Government Party. They're not just going to turn off the tolls, they're going to turn off Norway, because they're going to stop investing in infrastructure in important parts of the country. Our government is working all the time to bring down the toll tax, in many areas. That is why we are implementing transport reforms – reforms that the whole opposition was also opposed when they were implemented. The establishment of New Vegar AS – which according to the Center Party was supposed to upset the road development – really made us build faster, cheaper and better than we have done before. They were opposed to the reform of the toll sector, which is supposed to help bring down administrative costs and make more of the money that is demanded, actually go to the road and less to the administration. The opposition has every reason to be on the defensive in this discussion, because the only thing they intend to do is to rename the tolls. The second consequence of this is that they are, in effect, calling for tolls to be transferred into the State budget — with the consequences it has for the possibility of giving priority to the rapid development of the important subject. I have a great deal of sympathy with those who are concerned about the social impact of an excessive tax level, including tolls. They're very sympathetic. That's why we have a government in this country that actively reduces both taxes and tolls, to strong criticism from an opposition that has consistently presented, in the alternative state budgets of this cottage, to increase the tax and tax burden additional to that of most people in this country. This is a good thing, which shows the big differences between the four government parties and the opposition. The government is investing in the construction of the necessary infrastructure, on the lowest possible taxes and charges and, not least, combines it with a necessary and proper commitment to the development of collective provision, growth in the railway budget and the strengthening of urban areas, which, in some sense, suggests that several of those who have the opportunity to choose an effective and simple collective journey actually do so, with the result that passenger numbers, such as: on the Norwegian railway, going up substantially. Today, the opposition is proposing to change the name of the tolls, to move them into the state budget, to stop road construction and to forge public transport, for example. the proposal and initiative of the Central Party. It shows that the majority are doing the right thing when they delete these suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e1062	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e1067	It'll be a little strange to hear the Council of State from the pulpit talk about social differences and what this government is doing, when we see that the differences are increasing. Now this case concerns tolls, and there is no doubt that around the country there are different shares, different contributions – it goes from 90 pst. on the drivers to nothing. We have proposed to discuss road pricing. In the state budget for 2020, it is 1.4 billion. kr in reduced tolls. And then we wonder: what criteria are there that underlie precisely the projects within the state budget for reduced tolls?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e1074	I just want to remind you that the car charges under this government, including tolls, have fallen. That means that if a person is actually busy with the load on normal people's car use, a vote for the government's proposal for a government budget and not for his own alternative government budget. It's good to have this discussion with you. Then the projects that are given new impetus in the draft budget by the government for 2020 are based on the political agreement that runs between the four government parties, referred to as the toll agreement. Part of the existing money, about 550 million. kr, is used for, thin over all projects, to contribute to an increased toll loss if a good to have a bomb. It has been an important incentive to put in place a new structure in the toll companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e1081	In the case of next year's government budget, the Committee is not yet properly completed, but the Workers' Party will support the government's proposal of 1.4 billion. kr in reduced tolls. We also want to give 1 billion. kr more to the counties, which also gives less tolls. Government parties have also said that they want to investigate the use of new toll collection technologies and other car charges. What is the status of this work?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e1088	Our government is busy using all the technology where he's efficient, and we're not going to close the door for new technological solutions. But what the opposition constantly systematically calls for is just to give tolls a different name. There won't be any less tolls of it, and the Labour Party has confirmed many times here in the staging room that neither is the intention. What this is trying to do is misplace the actual discussion about how to bring down the level of tolls. There I record that when the Progress Party and the government jointly take new steps to bring down the tolls, the Labour Party agrees. It's very good – it's very good that the Workers' Party is playing after. That's good for the motorists, if it actually would have meant something even when the Labour Party put in position. But the answer to bringing down the tolls is not to rename them, as the Labour Party has repeatedly called for.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e1093	With my question, I may also be accused of fogging, but we will see. It's also going on advanced road pricing. The centre party believes that in large parts of the country it is imperative to use a private car, while in the largest cities it has to be invested in collectives, bicycles and times, I think most people agree with that. In connection with the proposal from the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party, which was discussed by the Stortinget in February 2019, the Centre Party had the following proposals: ‘The government is asking for advanced road pricing in areas where there are good alternatives to private cars.’ Of course, it was downhearted, but what's interesting is that what was adopted by the majority in this Chamber was: ‘The government asks to include the investigation of new technologies that can replace today’s toll system as part of the review of today’s car charging system.’ What has happened since 19 February, and in what way has the Council of State intended to introduce the government's own road pricing?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e1110	There is nothing on the introduction of road pricing. On the contrary, we have made it clear that there is no introduction of road pricing for private cars this large-scale period – through the toll agreement we have created. That would be an advantage if one did not allow us other intentions than those we have. What we've said is that we're going to figure out alternatives to tolls as part of the collection of car charges. It's a work run by the Ministry of Finance, which happens in their direction, and which the government has started up because of course we follow up our own plurality from this house. But there is something quite different than indicating what the representative is doing now, that we are going to introduce a road pricing system for private cars in this period. It's not relevant for this government, and it shows one of the reasons why we should stick with this government instead of letting the Center Party into government offices.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e1115	I record the answer, and I understand that he will not take the word ‘advanced road pricing’ in his mouth. But it's still amazing that we have a government council that lately has massively outstripped that road pricing is he against. Then I just want to refer to the two suggestions, and then I get to ask, what's the difference? The Workers' Party, in the same position, made the following proposals: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate and plan the introduction of satellite road pricing in Norway to replace the current tolling system.’ I repeat what the decision in the Inst. 175 S were: ‘The government asks to include the investigation of new technologies that can replace today’s toll system as part of the review of today’s car charging system.’ What's the difference between the two things?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e1130	The difference is significant, because the only proposal from the Workers' Party is to give the tolls a different name, but to maintain the toll base, the revenue it gives, while today's government has actively worked to reduce the toll pressure. I thought that the Central Party was happy, at least in the debates, if they're not in actual politics – it doesn't sound like this right now. While the proposal we have said that we should work on is to look at what it will look like when we are going to have a resilient car tax system, which deals with more things than just this. So there's a significant difference. It is also the basis for the Ministry of Finance now to run this in a health centre, and not based on the opposition’s wish to drown the tolls in the hope that the problem will then be resolved.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e1137	I'm referring to my main post. So state councils are against or will reduce tolls on major motorway projects, and they prefer not to have it in cities, either, at least reduce heavily. He does not want road pricing systems, no matter how fair it is, because then one can risk having to pay something there as well. When he wants to build a motorway on the highway, incredibly expensive projects – which he, after what I can understand, wants the state to pay much more – then the question is: How will the Council of State finance this? Is it still the case that he wants to use oil money, not just for the asphalt, but directly to finance these major motorway projects?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e1145	The answer to that is – short – yes. Without the oil revenues, we would not have been able to balance the state budget at the level we are today. It is therefore life threatening to escape to SV, which will liquidate Norwegian oil industry, and with it actually writing away the whole foundation, not only for the policy of transport, but to a large extent for the financing of the entire welfare state. This is because it actually means something about keeping up with a government that is prepared to facilitate the most important continental industry we have, including in the supplier industry: developing new technologies, creating new jobs. But it's not surprising to me that SV has read the party program of the Progress Party, and that one hears again a twist of it when the Progress Party is in government, should not surprise anyone either. We've been busy bringing down the tolls in the village and the city because it means something. We've been busy building infrastructure, finding new motorway solutions – because it gives added value to society that a developer of construction and labour market regions and shortens the travel distance for business. That is why we are pursuing transport policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e1152	Everyone, including the Council of State, is aware that the Advance Party promised to remove all the toll stations, but after they came into government and got power, they've set toll cords. Never before have there been so many toll stations around the country, never before have so much tolls been paid in. It's fascinating to see how you can do one thing and say the whole opposite. But we notice that, and so do most people. In the Granavolden platform, the government has promised that it will be possible to deduct toll expenditure from the tax. The scheme was also announced in the election campaign, but we have not seen anything about it in the state budget. Can the Council of States tell when this arrangement will come?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e1159	That is quite right: Under our government, they collect taxes and charges by $10 billion – where they increase by $10 billion if Red is to have a hand on the steering wheel of the Center Party, the Workers' Party, SV and, in the worst case, the MDG. There's no doubt about it. Under today's government, car charges are going down because we're making the necessary changes, because we're driving through technology shifts, as a catalyst for emission reductions, while people can use their private car in areas where they don't have any other real options. It is no new matter that the Progress Party would like to have come even further in a toll cut, but the election result has not given us enough strength to do so. But it gives us enough strength to actually cut the tolls with new 1.4 billion. In the next year's districts, half a billion dollars in cities, where the opposition is only trying to divert the tolls into a different name.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e1166	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e1171	The representative Igstad had a very good story about how these toll collections occurred. It is then quite amazing that the Labour Party in this debate is talking about the fact that we must now have many more national leaders. So, all the toll projects that we know about have been initiated locally, and there have been reconciliations in local government and county councils. The working party has never voted against – nor Red. The only party that has actually voted against all the time – they should – is the Progress Party. They have voted against these projects from day one and have been steadfast, although they may have to give up little in government. That's my point: the proposals that are now being complied with are built on much of what the Left has wanted with these toll collections. It is not because we have to be bad with people; no, it is because it has to be an alternative. In cities, for example, be an alternative to driving a car. It has to be good collective solutions. That's what you've done. It's not only the road systems that have become good, that the representative Igstad was in, it's also incredibly nice alternative solutions, with both collectives, corridors and bicycles. So I have to say a little bit to the Center Party, which in the election campaign would take away a lot of the money that is set aside in the NTP for urban growth agreements. I guess that was $12. kr which was mentioned at the time, and now, in the budget, they are talking about transferring money to rural growth agreements instead. We have no objection to having good solutions in the countryside and in smaller communities, but it is clear that it is in the cities that we have the big challenges and not least have the solutions. It's where it's easiest to get solutions, so people can choose not to drive a car, but rather use public transport. It surprises me that the Central Party is not fully willing to help solve the challenges you face locally, but also to help solve the global climate challenge. To Red's concern about the financing of these projects: Yes, we can clearly think of new ones, and that has been done. New roads have been given, which have reduced construction costs. They have not only increased speed and got to the four-field highway; they have actually got the price down compared to what the State Road Service had sketched for the same projects. The left is also concerned that public-private cooperation, i.e. OPS, is a good way to build large infrastructure projects, where possible. We've had successful projects, and we're doing something now in Elverum, and it looks like it's going very well, considering both the solution for the drivers and the expectations of the community, which is getting a new, good way. Not least, as the Council of State said, business traffic is coming forward much faster, and it's actually for those we're building a road. So given the debate that's going on, I think we're actually quite socially structured. With regard to road pricing and the fact that the Left wants a different collection from these toll points, it is to get a fairer system, so that all the drivers are involved and contribute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e1186	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e1191	I think we would have had better debates in Stortinget if the Minister for Transport had talked about the debate and got involved in the proposals that are being promoted in Stortinget. I also think the debate would have improved if the Minister for Transport had answered the questions he gets in Stortinget, instead of talking about everything else. The Minister of Transport has obviously not read the alternative government budgets of the opposition parties, but it could perhaps be expected that the Minister of Transport would have read the financial position, which will be dealt with in the Stortinget tomorrow. Then he had read – and understood – that the Labour Party in the 2020 budget supports the government's proposal to cut tolls. We did not support the government's proposal in 2018, which was a significantly smaller amount, but we supported the government's proposal on toll cuts in both the 2019 budget, i.e. for the current year, and we support it in the 2020 budget. So that's actually not right, what the Minister of Transport is saying out of the Great Britain's pulpit. I understand that he's got voice points from his information staff, and that he's going to say that the opposition is going to rename the tolls. I don't know how many times he's said that. But I have been in many debates with representatives from other government parties. During Arendalsuka we flew from debate to debate – Helge Orten, Jon Gunnes and I – and I think people gradually got tired of listening to us, but there both the Right, Left and Christian People's Party said they were for road pricing, and they even said that the government is running and investigating road pricing. Is it, then, that the Governmental Council of Dale's government partners from the Right, Left and Christian People's Party are now running and working on just giving the tolls a new name, as the Governmental Council of Dale has said to the tedious in today's debate? That's basically the only thing he's been able to say so far in the debate. The representative Constantaune had a very good question. For once again, when one hears with the representatives of Gunnes, the Place and the Grave and others from the Christian People's Party, they say that what the Stortinget previously decided, that we should apply new technology, is the same thing as the Workers' Party, SV, Red and perhaps others today talk about when we use the concept of road pricing, which is the concept of which it is a common understanding – that a person should simply collect money in a way other than simply by paying something when passing a physical point. So what's the difference between what the Right, Left and Christian People's Party says, and what the Council of State Dale says, and what the opposition has proposed? That would have been interesting to hear.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e1204	It was sad that I only had one minute in the line change with the council. That's the way it is. Of course, I referred to the desire of the Council of State and the Advance Party to take directly from the Oil Fund to finance their major road projects. I think it is very nice to hear new signals from the Central Party representative – and I have heard it in other contexts as well – who question the government's motorway plan, the gigantomania in the road development, a road development that is far beyond the real need for scaling. In my main post, I referred to two investigations – which have been carried out by the Council of State on the subject – that are much more sober in the use of four-field motorways. There is no need for that, they say, and at least it is far more socio-economicly useful to have two or three-field roads on long distances. I have to ask: does not the Council of State take this into account at all? Why does he turn his back on his own colleges? It is strange not to get a clear answer to this. In any case, I would like to ask that the representatives of the big business, the representatives of the largest parties in this transport committee, take this on board. They must read these peer reviews. Should they go on an autopilot for these highway plans that cost billions of dollars, and that may not be necessary, and that build down areas of cultivated land, and that thus go over cultural land? You have to drive at 110 km/h, whether you need it or not. These are crucial issues for the use of taxpayers’ resources and for the environment. These are absolutely crucial questions. Now the large lots in the hall also, no matter what block it is, have to ask themselves whether to go on this autopilot for proposals for major motorways in Norway. I recommend it to them. At the very end: it would also be very nice to hear an answer from the Council of State, whether he has the opportunity to give me an answer, whether he realizes that in order to reach the zero growth target, the tolls in the cities, in urban strips, have been absolutely essential? The fact that we transfer money from tolls to the collective effort, and the fact that getting into cities would be a little tedious, has been crucial to bringing down car traffic in the center: Can he admit it, believe?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e1219	I understand that some toes in the Workers' Party get sore, for example. The representative of his Myrli, when the Labour Party is confronted with what their own proposals actually mean. One point is that the tolls get a new name, but that one keeps the same income from them, and the second point, that the tolls are actually moved into the private car of people. I understand that it is annoying, but I can guarantee that it was not in a speech point. On the contrary, I think most people who work around me would have appreciated that I used the speech points instead of confronting the Labour Party so directly with the consequences of their own policies. So, when I judge the budget from the opposition, I'm actually also assuming that what's about to develop into maybe becoming a big brother on the left of Norwegian politics, the Center Party, after all, is a significant cut, for example. in urban growth agreements, which will increase tolls as the only direct alternative method of financing. If one looks at the opposition's proposal, it means that one can vote for the government's toll cut, or one can take hold, for example. The centre party shall be responsible for increasing the load on the caristics. To the representative Nävra, who is constantly looking for the opportunity to cut every new road project that is important to build our country stronger in terms of larger bus and labour market regions and shorter travel distances for business, it is just the following to note: I know that SV would like to cut out Rogfast, which is a huge project to invest in. I know that SV would like to cut out Hordfast, which is a profitable project, which also shows that greenhouse gas emissions in the lifetime are falling, if one makes investments. But SV would like to raise the money across the mountain and spend it on less profitable investments on this side of Langfjella. It is the great difference between us who want to build the whole country, and Arne Nävra who wants to build his own neighborhood. If we are to continue building our country stronger together, we need to expand the construction and labour market regions, and we need to enlarge and simplify the opportunities for Norwegian business to create and raise money. Then we have to maintain a transport policy that actually gives development across the country, and not just where SV has the greatest upswing.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e1230	I noticed that I did not receive any answer to the two questions I had. One was simply: according to the Minister of Transport's rhetoric that those who are to discuss road pricing are only concerned with giving the tolls a new name, does he also believe that the Right, Left and Christian People's Party should simply name the tolls? I did not get an answer to that, and that is probably a good reason. Nor do we get answers to the important question in this debate: whether it is called road pricing. I don't think anyone in this room has any achievement in that it's going to be called that right there. It's not like road pricing is a defined A4 solution, shelf product, that it should be. There are many things here that need to be investigated and looked at. But to say that road pricing is something quite different than what the government itself says they're working on, that is, that you're going to use new technology for car user payment – what's the big difference? The Minister of Transport turns to the great heights and argues against the proposals of us who will investigate road pricing. And so his government partners from the Right, Left and Christian People's Party say it's the same thing: we're going to use new technology to collect today's tolls in a smarter way than today's toll system. New technology allows us to make this smarter, says Right, Left and Christian People's Party. Good! That's the same thing as the opposition says. We call it road pricing because that's what it's been called so far. Call it something else on the day the system with which the government works comes – but we do not get a response in this debate to what is the big difference in that opposition has promoted a little different suggestions in Stortinget, and what the government is working on.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e1239	The representative Arne Nävra has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e1245	Now the rhetoric from the state council becomes too simple here. It actually limits to dishonesty when he once again sets up east to the west. This he has done to me many times, and it becomes no more true because of it. It is now commonly known that SV wants to rust up the western roads – with middle parts, with yellow middle stripe, with shoulders, with race protection. All of this is widely known, and it is reflected in our draft budget. So it's unfair to set up east to the west. Could the Council of State have provided examples – such as the West Corridor, E18, which we oppose, and which the government seems to force against both the Viken and Oslo's will? We'll see how it ends. Remember, we're talking about a continuous set of tolls: with the plans of the Council of State, you can drive a ferry-free E39 for around 3000 to 4000 kroner, and maybe it costs $27,000 for a Drammensen to drive into the Oslo Centre.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e1252	My ambition was that this would be a short, concise and good debate. Maybe that's something that can be discussed. Initially, I think the representative Myrli addressed a problem related to road pricing and to new technologies in the transport sector. New technologies in the transport sector are, in fact, one of the most important things we do in the day, because we see that it offers us completely new opportunities – including in the design of a future sustainable car tax system. We have discussed that proposal in Stortinget. We have asked the government to investigate how new technology can be used to create a future sustainable charging system. The work of the Dale Government Council is already well under way in the Ministry of Finance and will be delivered to the Stortinget when it is clear. It's just a follow-up to the order that's there. I think it is much better in this work to look at new technology in a broad context than to focus on some diffuse concept called ‘road pricing’, which is a little unclear what one puts in. Someone's talking about road pricing as a substitute for today's toll system. Others talk about road pricing as a system to replace everything that is of use-related car charges. It's very difficult to get hold of that term. That's why I think the right way to do it when an investigator examines the use of new technology is to see it in the context of what a future sustainable car charging system should be like. That's the order we've given, and that's the one that the government will definitely answer. To the representative Nävra: I can assure him that the Right, as one of the major parties, will continue to build road infrastructure throughout Norway. Why do we do that? Yes, because we must have value creation throughout the country. We have to make sure that we have a settlement throughout the country. This is why road construction is important. When SV and other so-called environmental parties turn the road, the car and the plane into a main enemy, we think it's an old-fashioned environmental policy – instead of making sure to do what's rolling on top of these roads, or flying in the air, emission free. Because that's where the challenge lies. If we build the infrastructure, or leave it to expand the infrastructure, we will also have a significant problem in 5, 10 or 15 years, when these modes of transport are emission-free. At least it is my ambition that we continue to build a balanced infrastructure. That's what builds the country, and that's what helps us to have value creation and housing throughout Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e1263	The rapporteur had also thought that this would be a short, concise and concrete debate. Now the representative said something really quite liberating. An investigation has been requested into the possibilities of using new technology, and that is exactly what the Labour Party proposed in this case, as it was the last time. The proposal is to investigate, and there is a list of some of the points and moments that it is appropriate to look at. There is no doubt that tolls are perceived as unfair and unsocial, as the proposer of Document 8 points out. We have to do something more about how we're going to get it fairer, and how much the drivers are going to pay. Now the representative from the Left says that the Progress Party has voted against locally. That's not true at all. There are many projects that have also been supported locally by the Progress Party. When you talk about New Roads getting the price down, or the cost of road construction, and at the same time point to OPS as the solution of the future, it is also completely wrong. The last OPS project has been built by the State Road Service and the share that has fallen there has not benefited from the driving lists. Maybe that's what the Workers' Party points out most: the injustice of some places paying the drivers 90 pst. by extension, while other places receive it free of charge. It is therefore for this reason that signed questions have also been asked to the Council of State instead of how one has selected the projects to reduce costs. So we're looking forward to an investigation of new technology. When the Council of State is really more interested in taking the Workers' Party than in explaining the future of road construction, we remember that the Progress Party is 21 billion. kr according to your own plan. One has to look at several options to reduce costs also on road construction, and we are concerned about the major projects that Norwegian entrepreneurs now say they are unable to compete in.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e1272	In my previous post I also addressed this with State guarantee liability, and this has the Senterpartie repeatedly. We think this is very important. Thus, it is beyond the possibility for the county to be able to borrow other important projects when they are about to embark on a new regional reform. As I have read the state budget, it says that this is now also being assessed by the government. I think it would have been very good if you could get an early check on whether the government believes that there should be a State guarantee – and not a county municipal guarantee – on the major road projects. We've talked about road pricing. I just want to establish that the way I read it, and the way I read the decisions made in the Storting, and also directly and indirectly what is being said in the hall here, are actually all parties other than the Center Party for Road pricing. That's what the facts are. We want it to be so that in those places in the country where there are no alternatives other than cars, it should in some way be rewarded and marked in the wallet of those who have no alternatives. When it comes to urban growth agreements and urban growth, we are, of course, in order for it to be invested in collectives, bicycles and corridors in the urban areas. That is why we want to redeploy and spend some of the money on urban growth agreements, because we do not want it to stimulate smaller urban tolls, but to stimulate the alternatives that already exist – in large quantities. There must be a difference in the offers for those who have the opportunity to use public transport, compared with those who do not have the opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e1287	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e1304	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, three lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e1311	I would first like to thank the Committee on Good Cooperation and Effective Progress in what must be said to be a particularly hectic period. The Committee is united in the view that the provision of services is a major part of Norwegian working life and that services and current tasks are often put under tender. In the private sector, there are clean-up, janitorial and road maintenance services that are some of the tasks that are often put out to tender and meet competition. Furthermore, the Committee agrees that tasks performed by workers working in service industries do not necessarily meet the conditions for the transfer of activities. If the terms of the business transfer are not met or the business transfer is not agreed, employees may not require to keep the job when the work is outsourced to others. From this point of view, the Committee distinguishes itself, and in my further explanation, I would like to address the views of the government parties – which I would like to mention hereafter as the majority – in the matter. The majority believe that both public and private enterprises should have the opportunity to organise themselves as they see fit to carry out their core tasks. It means the ability to purchase services that they either do not have the capacity to operate themselves or are not part of the services that they are required to provide. Asking for offers from several suppliers to compare price and quality is a perfectly legitimate way to ensure that the business is provided with the best possible services at the best possible price. However, it is important that tenders be drawn up on the basis of a competitive basis which imposes on operators both of quality and of content. However, it is also important that we are clear that tenders themselves do not necessarily lead to poorer pay and working conditions. Clear requirements are laid down for the preparation of such a tender through the DIFIs Adviser on pay and working conditions in public contracts. whereas the competitive evidence contained in tenders must be based on equal opportunities for offering good pay and working conditions if real comparisons are to be made with public operators; In some cases this does not happen, and thus private individuals can be produced unfairly. One case we could read about in the Nettavisen in September 2019, where the Municipality of Oslo claimed less hourly pay than what they themselves offered to its employees, in the competition basis for their bid for health home services. Such competitive foundations contribute to weakening healthy and desirable competition – for competition is an important and appropriate tool to ensure better services, through innovation and further development of products and services. The rules on business transfer are designed to balance the needs of employees for the protection of existing wage and working conditions, on the one hand, against the needs of employers on the other. This balance sheet is good, and it takes good care of the different considerations. However, the majority share the concern that there are challenges in parts of the service sector. This is often about non-compliance with existing legislation on pay and working conditions. In this way, legislative changes are not an appropriate instrument to meet this challenge. First, we must ensure that existing legislation is enforced. It is important that one balance the rights of employees to the autonomy of businesses with regard to the possibility of ensuring appropriate and profitable operation. The proposals submitted will restrict competition in the service sector and there are other measures that will be better. A number of measures have already been put in place to improve the conditions of workers and to contribute to a level playing field. The above-mentioned conditions of pay and employment are laid down in public contracts. Furthermore, employees in establishments providing services to contracting authorities shall not be subject to any worse conditions than those resulting from applicable public service or national collective agreements. Work done in cooperation with the social partners through the anti-crime strategy is important, and significant work is also done through the sectoral programmes. The majority will not intervene in order to prohibit State-owned enterprises from outsourcing clean-up services. There will be inappropriate and poor use of resources if the State is now to perform all support functions in the underlying activities. We have long traditions in Norway for the public and private sectors to work together to find good solutions. The majority consider it appropriate and necessary that private individuals should also be able to compete for the best possible offer, in order to obtain the best possible quality of service. Against this background, the majority reject the proposals submitted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e1343	The working party fights for a safe and fair working life with whole, permanent jobs and a wage to live on. We want a working life where no one stands alone, where we have a high level of organisation, and where employers invest in the skills of employees. We want the best public sector in the world. Then we have to work smarter and involve the employees. At the same time, we need to settle the development of public sector market thinking, the alienation of employees and the large-scale outsourcing of competition. In the case of public sector tendering and outsourcing, the Workers' Party believes that we can and must do far more to ensure employees' rights, inter alia. through transfer of activities. I agree with the case rapporteur that it is perfectly legitimate to check whether others can offer a qualitatively better service, work smarter and in and of course also to have cases on offer, but we need to think about what is the driver because the public wants to put something on offer, and that people want to compete in this market. The ability of private individuals to make an offer cheaper — and it is often the price that is crucial in such issues — is whether fewer employees can be done with less time spent, at lower wages and at lower pension and working conditions. There are not many other areas where you can see that you can operate more efficiently or that you can do the service cheaper. We see it, among other things. also in what the Joint Undertaking has recorded in the Committee on the case, that employers entering such a market for profit often think in the short term and therefore do not want to invest in the competence of employees, that there are fewer who receive a professional letter or the possibility to take a professional letter — as some examples. The problems you see with today's legislation include: that the pension is exempt and that employers can reserve themselves against continuing the rights of employees through collective bargaining agreements. A ghastly example of this has been seen in what happened at the privatisation of the defense team, during today's government, where some employees overnight lost accrued pension entitlements of 1.3 million. kr. It is bad for the workers, but it is also bad for the business, because we have seen that the quality has deteriorated. We saw the same thing through the renovation scandal in Oslo, when the then right-wing town council concluded contracts that were completely unsustainable. The Red-Green Council has taken over responsibility for 170 employees through a transfer of business, and renovation is now being carried out under its own direction. The same applies to a number of other municipalities in Norway that have been burned off to renovate their tenders. We saw the same right-hand town council in Oslo assigning a number of janitorial services to private people. Now, the Red-Green City Council in Oslo has assumed responsibility for 40 watchmasters through a business transfer, where employees have been given the Oslo municipality as an employer – better for employees and not least better for service users. This is about political will. The political will of the right-hand side in the municipalities where they rule, in the counties where they rule, and through the government and the political majority on the Grand Duchy is very clear: more privatisation, the employees are able to manage themselves, and those who are concerned about their place in the future working life, and who are weakened by their rights as a result of the outsourcing of competition, are not given any relief from the right. For this reason, the Workers' Party, together with several parties on the Stortinget, is now promoting proposals which will help to ensure that more services will be provided under public ownership and which strengthen employees' rights in the event of transfers of activities, both public and private, as well as in the event of the expiry of contracts. With that, I take up the proposals that the Workers' Party is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e1356	The representative of Arild Grande has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e1361	The rights of workers have been protected by statutory and contractual works. At my discretion, the Labour Environment Act creates a good balance between the employee’s obligations and rights, the employer’s obligations and rights and the role of the authorities. In the proposal, the Socialist Left Party calls for the elimination of the distinction between enterprises that change ownership and an enterprise that outsources parts of operations to others through the outsourcing of competition. I think that is unwise, because there is a significant difference between an enterprise changing owner, or whether parts of the services are purchased by others for a period, as tenders work. The use of tenders gives and has given several good effects where it has been used. It has provided innovation and business start-ups, but also good socio-economic efficiency results. These are important elements, often excluded by the Socialist Left in debates on tenders. Society does not have unlimited resources, and we must constantly reach out to find better and more effective ways of solving these problems, but not at the expense of employees' rights. It's not like that either. We are all concerned that workers should have good and safe frameworks and a decent salary. This applies regardless of who is the employer and regardless of how the operations are organised. In Norway, workers are well cared for. Where services are offered, there will be a competition basis for each activity based on the legal and contractual framework. It is the responsibility of any employer to follow it. The representative Grande gave several examples — rather selective use of examples. We can use examples from this city and the city council in this city. As the Nett newspaper mentioned in September 2019, there was a call from the Municipality of Oslo for health care services, where the Red-Green City Council, through the competition basis, demanded that the providers were not given the opportunity to submit offers of remuneration to employees at more than wage level 31, far below the municipality’s own employees, who were at salary levels 28-41. In such tenders, private operators will never be able to provide employees with equivalent pay conditions and the debate on tenders will be disrupted on a false basis. In this particular case, one would expect the Socialist Left Party to be particularly concerned with demanding equal pay terms on the basis of competition, where they themselves have the power and the ability to govern it. However, they did not. Therefore, I also hope that the representative Solfrid Lerbreck, when she subsequently has her measured speaking time, can explain why the Socialist Left Party demanded that they have a lower salary in this city than the municipal employees had. Activity transfer is specifically regulated by the Labour Environment Act, precisely because it is different from the services offered in tenders. In the case of a transfer of activities, employees shall, as a general rule, be accompanied by equal pay terms. However, the pension scheme is for the employer to decide, which, in my opinion, is also reasonable and reasonable. One might, for example: imagine a multi-employee enterprise and a desire for everyone to enjoy a level playing field. The Socialist Left points out in its proposal that there are unprofessional actors and that they create unworthy and particularly unpredictable conditions for employees. That is exactly what we agree with. However, unprofessional actors and non-statutory actors are quite different and create a need for measures other than removing the possibility for serious operators to offer services. Work-life crime must be combated. That is why this government has developed a strategy for labour crime, has established seven new a-krim centres and cross-border cooperation, and has established sectoral agreements to limit the possibility for unprofessional operators in vulnerable industries. The Labour Environment Act has been strengthened in several areas and the Labour Inspectorate has an important role to play in overseeing. The government has also decided to lower the threshold to warn about critical conditions at work, as late as last year. We are all concerned with ensuring good and decent pay and working conditions for workers in Norway. We do this by continuing the fight against crime at work and having a good framework through legal and contractual works, not by removing the possibility of using competitive outsourcing. In conclusion, I look forward to the representative Lerbreck telling you about the reasons the City Council in Oslo had.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e1386	It is an important theme addressed by SV. The Centre does not support the five proposals, but instead promotes two general proposals together with the Workers' Party. I'm going to deal with the proposals. 1 and 2. The attitude of the centre party to the theme of outsourcing and related well-organised work and fair competition in business requires some general phrases. Public and private activities organise themselves as they think is best to do the job. This is the case in a mixed economy, as Norway has. The choice is self-employed or to purchase services which are either not capable of operating or which are not part of the services to be provided by the firm. We then talk in many cases about tenders where a request for price and quality. Obviously, it is common to ensure that the best possible service is provided to the enterprise at the best possible price. In other words, the basis of competition must be that those making the offer are measured on both quality and price. The painful experience of today's working life and the lack of fair competition between companies in the business world must make wages, pensions and working conditions a clearer requirement in the competitive environment of the whole of the world. The SV proposal deals with clean-up, watchkeeping and road maintenance contracts. First road maintenance: in Norway, there is a long tradition that this is more or less outsourced to private commercial entrepreneurs. I would like to stress that, in the view of the Centre Party, this should also be the case in the future. However, the basis of competition must impose stricter requirements on Norwegian wage, pension and working conditions as well as clearer requirements for own employees and machines. Why? Yes, among others. to reduce the use of subcontractors. We will be able to get a fairer competition among companies that have experience and know the subject. I want to underline it: between companies that have experience and know the subject. We have too many examples of tenders being offered to companies that have very limited experience and very few employees who are professionals on the topic, and that is very critical in our opinion. This also ensures clearer responsibilities for road maintenance and better meets the overall public responsibility for maintenance. In the case of clean-up and watchkeeping, the central party’s principal position is that the person carrying out work in the public institution also accounts for all activities in the building. To put it simply, we have one roof and one employer in terms of what the public stands for in the building. The centre party is a member of the community because the experience shows that you do not get the quality you wanted, and you do not get the conditions for the expected employees. What is then central to public activity when a recommuner is involved is what the central party «banks on» is all the time, namely organisation, culture and management. It requires public activities to place organisation, culture and management at the centre. It makes it more interesting for the people who do the job, to do a good job; you get more responsibility, you get more authority to do your job. We know from experience that's the recipe for more people to do a better job, because it gets more interesting. If, due to special circumstances, the public does not wish to perform e.g.: cleaning and vigilance, if one of the specific reasons for not wanting to do so, has the public responsibility to design the basis of competition so that no lower wage and pension conditions or worse working conditions are the reason why the public does not do the job on its own. So it's essential that we get a culture where the skilled professionals who work together, take responsibility and think seas, gain greater authority in line with management's mission, get things done effectively and in a way that gives a good result. That's the Central Party's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e1407	Offer postings are perceived as a bad thing for a very large number of employees in these industries. It is used to a large extent and in more and more parts of Norwegian working life. There are especially some professionals where this is very common, where the majority of those working in the trade must compete to keep their jobs every four years. These industries include cleaning, weight management, road maintenance, renovation and janitorial services. There are also some others. I have to say that it is strange how this has only been accepted, that such a large part of the staff is now in direct danger of losing their job, parts of the job, or at least lit dishes every four years. I'm thinking well when I went to base school fifteen years ago. At that time, both hermits and hermits were firmly attached to the municipality. This is a pretty big change in a relatively short time. One might wonder why it's been like this in these class days. Could one imagine that the teacher's stick, the SFO bit or the special education had been offered without one having protested strongly? I don't think so, but the cleaners, who do an equally important job, are happy to scald and choose and put on offer every four years. My friend Kenneth works as a weight and is elected to trust at the airport at Sola. That's where he's been working for ten years. He has a letter and a good dose of professional pride. He now assesses changing his job because the offer press is as big on his job as both assigned and trusted. So he's now looking for a new job to let go of being put on offer every four years. With this proposal for a representative, we in SV have clearly shown some of the main challenges in Norwegian working life. Postponement of employment is clearly a competition that negatively pressures wage, labour and pension conditions. Even if quality requirements are weighted higher than the price of supply, the lowest-priced supply often ends up winning anyway — making the poorer conditions for the workforce. In particular, parts of the opposition to the Storting do not fully see the seriousness of the fact that workers in the given industries are sometimes at risk of losing their jobs without the job being laid down, without having done too bad a job, and without breaching the terms of the employment contract. It is quite different from other employees in other industries. Working as a reindeer or weighing on a job that is still looking for a job is significantly less secure than having a fixed job that is not on offer. We in SV do not accept this, therefore we suggest the suggestions for review, tightening and regulation changes described in the setting. I take up proposal No. 8 from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e1422	The representative of Solfrid Lerbreck has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e1427	The government wants a working life with clean pay and working conditions, serious employers and the safety of employees. I agree with the proposers that there are challenges in parts of the sector that are being developed, for example. in the cleaning industry. On the other hand, I do not agree that these challenges should be met with the measures presented in this case. The proposals relate partly to the rules on the transfer of activities. Procurement processes, e.g.: changing suppliers, sometimes involves a transfer of business, sometimes not. The rules on business transfers are intended to protect the rights of employees when the business is transferred. I believe that today's rules well balance the need for workers' protection, on the one hand, against taking account of employers' needs on the other. The case also includes more general proposals on the pay and working conditions of workers in the event of a call for tenders. I believe that we already have good rules to prevent adverse pay and working conditions in the exposed industries. In the case of public procurement services, the following applies, inter alia, to: the rules on pay and working conditions in public contracts. It shall contribute to ensuring that employees in establishments providing services to contracting authorities do not have any worse conditions than those resulting from public service or national collective agreements. Generalisation of collective bargaining agreements is another important instrument, such as: have been completed in the clean-up sector. The challenges identified by the proposers, including: in the cleaning industry, it is partly about non-compliance with the legislation we already have. I therefore have doubts about changes in e.g. the rules on business transfer are an appropriate instrument for meeting those challenges. In my view, the challenges in such competitive and labour-intensive industries should also be addressed through instruments that contribute to a level playing field, such as precisely the demand for pay and working conditions in public contracts, in conjunction with measures that strengthen compliance with existing legislation and reduce the market for unprofessional operators. In addition, it is important to increase the degree of organisation, especially in vulnerable sectors, where the government has set up its own working group with the social partners. In the clean-up sector, a number of measures have been taken to improve the pay and working conditions of workers and to contribute to a level playing field. A tripartite industry programme was launched in 2010, the public sector was introduced in 2011 and the authorisation system in 2012. There has also been a reinforced supervisory effort in the industry. There are still challenges in parts of the industry, and several measures are therefore to be implemented: the Industry Programme will carry out a monitoring of the functioning of clean-up services and cooperation between the Parties and the Labour Inspectorate on guidance measures aimed at those establishing clean-up activities is under way. Furthermore, cooperation with Competence Norway on language training for cleaners is under way. In general, the government is working on a continuous and targeted basis with measures designed to ensure a level playing field in different sectors, including pay and working conditions. in the framework of the strategy against crime at work and in dialogue with social partners.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e1442	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e1448	I'm recording that the Council of State believes that today's legislation is good enough. This must mean that the Council of State believes that the rights of employees are properly respected in the law. However, as we refer to in the setting, it is that the pension is not included, and it is also such that employers can reserve themselves against continuing the rights they have in collective agreements. We have the clean-up case in the Defence Healthy in memory, where some employees lost pension entitlements overnight, at 1.3 million. kr – rights they have earned in the labour market, with the state as an employer. How can the Council of State claim that employees’ rights are properly protected when we see such things happening?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e1455	I stand by what I said, that part of the challenges raised in the proposal is about non-compliance with the legislation and not the legislation itself. I believe that the legislation well balances the right of workers to protection on the one hand and the needs of employers on the other. It is then fully possible to exercise the rights of employees when putting off competition, including in the case of e.g.: pension entitlements. When I myself was City Council in this city, we just ensured that the employees retained their pension rights on a competitive basis. But we have also seen, in this city, massive breaches of the labour-environment law, also in municipal activities, which – I think – are due to non-compliance. I don't think it's the bad will of the City Council behind breaking all these rules, but it's just as completely non-compliance, for which one has a responsibility in the public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e1462	When the Council of State says that there are challenges in the clean-up and how they are run, it means in good Norwegian that we have trouble here. There is a lot that is not in the care of a lot of private cleaning companies in Norway. The registration system and various such measures have been tried to improve it, but their effectiveness has been limited. What's referred to from the defense, where the defense's cleaning team was exposed to the ISS, had a basis in which a thought ISS could do it cheaper. Purity is a natural part of any activity, whether private or commercial. My question is: Will the Council agree that the government has a responsibility to design the basis for competition so that no lower wage and pension conditions or worse working conditions are the reason why the government chooses not to carry out the work on its own behalf?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e1471	I fully agree that the public has a responsibility when postponing competition, and there are also provisions in the regulation on that, precisely to ensure good working conditions for employees. There are clear rules when tendering is required. Then it's true that there are challenges in the cleaning industry. Over many years – and with changing governments – there have also been recent arrests to ensure cleaner conditions in the cleaning industry. I mentioned several of these from the pulpit instead. Last year only included, inter alia: the private market also includes the provisions currently in place to clean up the clean-up sector. We also see that there are signs in the private market that indicate that we, the customers, are more likely to buy white now than what we were before. But it's a laborious and demanding job. The government has put this on the agenda through the strategies we have developed.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e1480	The cleaners who have been in the state every year, but who are suddenly outsourced, get new employers – if they keep the job – they lose the tariff agreement they have had, and they have to prepare for new bidding rounds, for example every four years. This is quite clearly different from what they had. So what will the council say to these reindeers, and to other employees who are familiar with what I have now described?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e1485	As I said in my previous reply, there are clear rules on how to put out services in the public sector for competition and tendering, and what requirements you have to impose on pay and working conditions. It is important to also make sure that those who change employers get good pay and working conditions. At the same time, wage formation is also a responsibility between the parties. In the clean-up sector, public tariff agreements are in place and, in the same way, there are separate provisions there. We agree that it is important that we have good pay and working conditions and that we should have a safe, good and serious working life with regular employment. We have that mainly in Norway today. With regard to the opening-up of unprofessional actors, the government has now for the third time launched its own strategy against the crime of working life – together with the social partners – which is also starting to deliver good results.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e1492	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e1499	It is an important matter that is being dealt with here today, because there are many employees who feel insecure about the situation they face when the job is being tendered. For public activities it should be the general rule to have permanent employees under their own control; this avoids the whole issue. What's interesting to hear here today is that both the representative Wiborg and the councillor Hauglie talk about the importance of having good pay and working conditions, but they define pay and working conditions as something other than taking pension into account. I think it's very unwise that you don't focus more on that with retirement and the rights that many people lose. I challenge the councillor Hauglie to answer the question that was asked here, about the cleaners who lose up to 1.3 million. pension because the job is put at a competitive disadvantage. The Council of State talked about what happened in the Municipality of Oslo, but it's probably what happens in the Defence Department is part of the government's responsibility, and I think the Council of State could answer that question. I also find it strange that you don't spend any more time understanding how much pension means to the individual. We have had a case in this room, a big case that all the employee organisations were behind, that we would get a pension from the first penny. Because it is those with the lowest wages who lose that we have legislation that does not get a pension payment for the first $100,000 you earn, and those who work part-time and have precarious jobs get worse. The first thing the government should do is go back and put forward a case that makes us get a pension from the first penny. This would remedy the uncertainty of many of those who are now exposed to competition, for at least a slightly better pension would have been guaranteed than in many cases, even though the public sector pension has traditionally been much better. I challenge the Council of State to say something about what she actually believes about what happened in the defense. Is it okay that the state as an employer sends people out in a situation where you lose a lot of money on something that should be obvious to you?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e1512	I just took the word for a very brief explanation of vote. We in SV will vote for all minority proposals in the configuration, which will do better than the current legislation. That's why we vote subsidiaryly for them.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e1517	When I hear a bit of the rhetoric that is used by the left-hand side of this case, I get the impression that you are opposed to everything from offers. In this case, it would be very special if one believes in practice that, for example: the public shall carry out all tasks itself. I don't think even these parties in this room think so, perhaps with the exception of the party Red. But when I hear the Socialist Left Party and the rhetoric they use, it's that all of the offers are wrong, all of the offers mean that it's getting worse for the employees. I myself have previous experience as a local politician in Moss. There we have put out more services in competition. One had investigations before it was put at a competitive disadvantage, while it was, and then, when it had been re-communalised, and the employees themselves liked better in the period when it was put at a competitive disadvantage. You went in and looked at the pay and work conditions. In several cases, or most often, it was relatively similar, in some cases it was also better. But the Socialist Left obviously knows better. Then there's something about life and learning in politics. I record that the representative Lerbreck did not answer my question, so I now encourage her to sign and answer the simple question: when SV is so opposed to tenders on grounds of pay and working conditions, when SV is himself in town council in this city and demands that the private do not be allowed to pay higher wages, on the contrary, they should pay lower wages than the municipality itself provides, why do you come afterwards and criticize the private ones? It's not on your fingertips. That is why I now encourage the representative Lerbreck to draw immediately and give a good explanation as to why the City Council in Oslo has put itself on that line, because it is not related to the view she otherwise has foreshadowed. In conclusion, I also heard the representative Lundteg speaking warmly about recommunalising services. I had believed and hoped that for the representatives of Lundtigen and the Zenterpartie, who have previously had a rather pragmatic relationship with this, the most important thing is to ensure good pay and working conditions, and not least it is incredibly important to make sure that the services are best for those who will receive them, and that the tax money is used in the most efficient and good way possible. That Lundtigen then settles on the same line rhetorically as the Socialist Left Party, I must say, am very surprised.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e1526	Of course, the right is also for a safe and decent working life, and we believe that there are many ways to drive more effectively. In fact, the whole development of wealth we've had in the last 150 years, just because we've managed to do more for less. It can be better methodology, it can be better equipment, and it has made even watchmaster services and cleaning more effective, while at the same time strengthening the working conditions of workers by not having to take the heavy promises. I believe it is a mistake to claim that it is not possible to do things smarter – and therefore often cheaper – without going beyond pay and working conditions. On the contrary, in Norway, we have been able to raise labour standards, offer good pay and good employment while providing more and better services. The representative of Grande deals with relations in the municipality of Oslo, among others. for the purpose of renovation and clean-up. Renovation was therefore subject to competition for more than 20 years with success before one contract was broken. What Grande referred to as an unsustainable contract for renovation, put his own city council on for a year and a half without changing after they took over. And, as the representative Wiborg has been involved, the same was true of the Workers' Party and the City Council, who demanded lower wages in contracts with private individuals. The representative Lerbreck has not responded to this, but I see that the representative Grande has signed up afterwards, so he might be able to explain something about it. After all, Oslo Municipality has now taken over these services, and everything should have been so much better. What they forget to mention, however, is that the Labour Inspectorate has now opened a case against the Municipality of Oslo after a breach of the Work Environment Act was detected – not just one breach, but 250,000 breaches since 2016. So if it's political will it's been on for all these years, where has it been? And while Veileno lost his contract and the head of Veileno was sentenced to nine months' imprisonment for violation of the Working Environment Act, it turns out that the municipality is doing the same thing, to a far greater extent. I think there are both good and bad employers in both the public and private sectors, and there are good and bad contracts. It is fully possible to premise the contracts to improve working conditions and, of course, the public can ask that the requirements be met. But these contracts can then be claimed, and the contracts can be cancelled. Worse is it when the public sector as a monopolist does the same. As the councillor, I don't think it's the bad will of today's city council. Equally, it is hollow to say that the rights of workers are paramount when the SV and the Workers' Party themselves require lower wages in tenders and are responsible for 250,000 breaches of the Working Environment Act. Competitive outsourcing means for me to provide better services and decent jobs, no matter who delivers them.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e1538	We hear a lot of nice and nice from the right about how fine everything should be just we put it on offer and put it off for competition. Services need to be improved, they need to be more efficient. It sounds great, but it doesn't work. The examples we have seen in the media in recent years from trying this show that there are going to be worse pay and working conditions, there is going to be worse services, and the vast majority of the municipalities that have burned on this are now taking it back in their own direction, as renovation services, not only in Oslo, but in a number of municipalities – approx. 200 in the number. We've seen examples from Defense, where employees have lost rights, and where the quality is impaired because fewer employees are going to make the same job less pay and in a shorter time. We have also seen examples of the air ambulance case, as most people know, how wrong it can be when we do not ensure that employees' rights are respected and the basic security of the Norwegian population is ensured. Then the question is, What have the Council of State and the government learned from these examples? I have not heard anything from this pulpit in this debate that indicates that they have learned anything at all. And that's not so strange in and of itself, that's after all the right-hand side we're talking about. You would like to welcome this development. What I think is more strange, is that parties who otherwise have a touching care for taxpayers' money sit quietly and watch that the community's funds run away to private actors, much goes out of the country, paid by employees in terms of poorer pay and working conditions and by users in terms of poorer offers. Can the Council of State come up and explain this lack of logic? And she can also answer the challenge that I signed, more people in the hall and Rigmor Aasrud have given: How can the Council of State stand on the pulpit of the Storting and say that the rights of employees are well respected in the law today, when we see such expressions as we have seen, among other things. In the defense? The Council of State says that it is important that we ensure rules to ensure that employees are protected, that we have a safe and good working life. I believe that losing pension rights, which one has honestly earned through a long professional life, sometimes over 1.3 million. kr, is an example of what she wants? I could imagine that she came up to the pulpit and explained. – Now I see that she's drawn, so I'll stop there.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e1551	In my first post, I clarified the Central Party's position on this topic, and it stands very firmly in our political tradition. I would like to stress that for the Centre Party it is in many cases now quite natural to re-communalise the cleaning team. Why is that? Well, because the experience isn't good enough. What we see is that where we have public leaders, who are not also responsible for cleanness, there is something missing. A public director shall be responsible for the whole. That's what's about to develop: nobody's gonna be responsible for the whole thing. When one is not responsible for the whole, there are disclaimers, and there are worse results. The central party has the attitude to the subject of cleanness that it is a full-fledged work. It is a job that must have a payment, which must have terms and conditions in line with other full-time work. And it is quite natural that a hospital director has the same responsibility for cleaners as for nurses in his business. For in the case of hospitals, cleaning, infection and quality of services are part of the same whole. What is happening today in a number of health businesses is not justified, the clean-up process is phased out, and then there is a problem in the next round because the disease situation develops in such a way that it is not going well as a result of the lack of the quality of the clean-up system. It is essential for the Centre Party that we have clean-up as an integral part of public activities. It is important that we get better managers of public activities, who take responsibility for the whole. And I underlined in my speech that what is most important in the public sector now is organisation, culture and management, namely that the public leaders inspire their employees to take responsibility, take initiative, think seas and do the job in a good way. If one gets it, combined with the jobs you have in the state, I would say that no one wants to outrun public cleaners. That's the Center Party line in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e1568	Several people have asked me questions about the specific outsourcing of the cleaning services in the Defence Department. I find it difficult to comment on that matter, simply because, as far as I know, it goes to the courts right now. What's the outcome of it, is it's either way too early to say. As far as I know, there was a business transfer, and as far as I know, there was also an employer with a collective agreement who was going to be the new employer. But again, the matter is before the court, and then I'll be careful to comment on it in a concrete way. It is as I have said in several articles here today, that when you are going to tender, that legislation applies to it today. There is a separate regulation on pay and working conditions in public contracts that regulates the requirements to be imposed on pay and working conditions. I believe that this is an important regulation and a proper regulation precisely because it guarantees employees their rights. But then there's an ideological distinction in this room between those who want to use private actors and those who don't want to use private actors. It is also an advantage, when you put something out to tender, that you can just make demands and conditions, and if they are not followed, you can cancel the contract. I notice that the opposition in this room is far more silent in terms of the breaches we actually see in the public sector, and I think that's a cross of thought. Because we see it in Oslo, we see it in Trondheim, we see it in the state sector, that there is also a breach there, but there is the concern of the opposition not significant, I have to say. The government has been busy putting a safe and serious working life on the agenda. We have developed three strategies against the crime of working life together with the social partners. We see good results from what we do. We see companies feel that it is easier to run now than before, and that they say that the risk of getting caught is greater. Consumers are more likely to act white now than before, and that is good. In those strategies, we have just focused on supervision, on penalties, on information sharing and on teamwork to unlock those who are unprofessional. And that's what this government is going to do. We are concerned with a safe, serious working life without unprofessional employers, but we are also concerned about using both private and public enterprises, in the mixed economy that the representative Lundtigen also mentioned in his statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e1579	I would like to respond a little to what I was almost asked to answer. I'm recording that the representative Wiborg openbert has a very strong commitment to Oslo. That's good. SV and I also have an involvement with Oslo. Unfortunately, I have not worked in or together with the City Council in Oslo, but I hope that the representative Wiborg will use his great commitment to get involved and get all the facts on the table. Unfortunately, I do not have the facts for now, but I am absolutely sure that my colleagues in the Oslo City Council will be more than helpful in getting them.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e1584	I'll be brief. I say like Arild Grande, with the opposite sign: we hear a lot of nice and great about how responsible and good everything should be just the public itself for the services. This despite the fact that the Workers' Party and SV obviously took over contracts which they themselves thought were unsustainable, without making any changes or canceling them when they entered the City Council in Oslo, despite the fact that they themselves require lower wages in contracts by tender, and despite their own responsibility for 250,000 breaches of the Working Environment Act, while they believe that this is only on political will. Then I wonder, where has the political will been for the last four years? But that might not be so strange, because it's all the moral, high-ranking left side we're talking about.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e1593	The representative of Arild Grande has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e1598	The Council of State does not respond elegantly to the opinion that it is estimated that pension entitlements of 1.3 million are lost. kr is the working life she wants. She refers to a legal case without accepting the invitation to say something political about what she thinks about what work we want. Then I really think the answer is given. For them, vote today, any proposals now being promoted by the opposition in order to ensure better rights for employees and to ensure better quality of service. It is an answer, and it is also – that you will not be able to provide greater security for employees by ensuring better quality of service produced and better predictability, both for users and for those who work in the sector. There is a clear response that today's government should be replaced, so that we can have the opportunity to ensure a decent working life for everyone, with predictability and security.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e1603	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e1620	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: The number will be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for government members. Moreover, within the allocated speaking time, there will be up to five replies from members of the Government. Those who have to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e1627	This case is about tightening up the right to child and spouse allowances when staying abroad. It is suggested that from 1 July 2020 there will be a requirement that both the recipient of the supplements and dependent children and spouses be resident in Norway. This applies to support supplements, as well as old-age pensions, redundancy payments, daily allowances, qualifying allowances, disability benefits and action payments. The setting on the table shows that today the division lines in the Chamber are on whether it is right to deal with this matter in the light of the legal scandal, or the Nav scandal, which goes to the administration and the courts’ treatment related to the EEA legislation. This is where the various parties will likely take care of their views and suggestions to return the matter to the government. The Government Party has also addressed this issue, and I am pleased with the answers and clarifications we have received from the Council of State in committee. We have also put in a plural note that emphasizes the importance that the actors in this field are aware of the rules at any time, and that one of them is asking for clarification of the rules at any given time. However, it is wrong to use the EEA issue in this matter, for those who have come up with this proposal do not behave in EEA countries, but to a large extent in countries such as Thailand, the Philippines, Morocco, Pakistan and Lebanon. Why, then, does it make sense to make changes? Welfare exports can in the long run be a major challenge for Norway. When statements adapt to Norwegian conditions are paid in other countries, it can significantly improve purchasing power for the recipient. In the Granavolden platform, we state that the government will work for measures that can limit and halt the export of welfare benefits. The current legislative proposal will ensure that support supplements are not paid by settlement or long-term suspension in countries with lower cost levels than in Norway. In addition, the change will improve the control capacity of the labour and welfare seat with the payment of these supplements, and we will ensure that the purpose of the supplements is present. The care plug-in is not an intentional performance, and as the rules are today, it can go to the care of people who do not live in Norway. As the size of the support supplements is adapted to a Norwegian level of costs, it is reasonable that both the recipient and the child or the spouse, for whom a supplement is received, should stay in the country. In addition, this proposal will prevent children from being sent abroad against their will. We want to prevent children from being sent to schools abroad where they are subjected to election or abuse, or if they are left abroad under irresponsible conditions. This is one of several measures taken by the government to prevent minors from being left behind or sent abroad against their will. The savings outlined in the case are already significant, but if one does not take care to do so, it will be even more challenging in the long term and in the future. So we make sure we get even more savings, plus that we guarantee the legitimacy that Norwegian welfare benefits go to the ones they're supposed to be sent out of the country to a great extent.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e1644	When Stortinget 1 March 2018 dealt with Meld. St. 40 for 2016-2017, on social security exports, a Joint Committee endorsed the government’s objective of reducing the export of Norwegian welfare benefits, took note of the fact that the EEA Agreement limits what Norway can do to limit social security exports, while at the same time agreeing to follow-up by the government of planned measures that have not yet been finalised but which could be a natural assessment. The export ban on various dependants was among them. Initially, the Labour Party is in favour of such restrictions, but we are still going to vote against the government's proposal today. Instead, we propose, together with the SV and the Center Party, to send the matter back to the government, and the reason for this is obvious. This is due to recent revelations of what may be the biggest legal scandal in Norwegian history, where several thousand people may have been unjustly called upon to pay benefits or have been stopped in their legitimate benefits because they have stayed abroad. Some have even – probably – been accused, convicted and sentenced to prison sentences on the wrong basis – all because Norway has misinterpreted the EEA acquis. At first it was thought that EEA legislation only applied to residents of another country. Then it was discovered that the legislation also applies for short-term stays, but that was only half the truth, because it was later discovered that it also applies for long-term stays. Prop. 129 L for 2018–2019 went to the Council of State on 21 June 2019. What did you know at that point? According to the State Council's statement in Stortinget on 5 November 2019, a lot was actually known. Already since Stortinget 1 March 2018 dealt with Report. St. 40 for 2016-2017, the Social Security Court had begun to issue notices that Article 21 of the Social Security Regulation was being interpreted incorrectly. Several confessions were made about this in the period June 2017 to March 2018 and sent to the directorate for review, but Stortinget was not informed of any of this before the notification was considered, although the directorate had taken the initiative to start an investigation already in February 2018, i.e. the month before. Before Prop. 129 L went to the State Council in June this year, had even more happened. The Court of First Instance brought an action before the EFTA Court. The Ministry was informed about uncertainties in the Norwegian interpretation of the EEA acquis in December 2018. In January 2019, the Ministry asked for a statement, and it was established that Article 21 concerns temporary short-stay stays, which should therefore also prove to be incorrect. All things are then suspended in March 2019. Same day as Prop. 129 L goes to the Council of State, the Ministry is briefed that all Nav offices are asked to change practice, and that message goes out the next day. None of this has been explained in the proposal, no additional information has been sent to the Stortinget, even after the Council of State press conference last month. We ourselves have had to send letters to the Council of State in order to know whether the proposals that are being promoted here are actually part of the same problem complex. We got a 'good day man, axe shaft' answer: we don't have to think about that, because the proposals in the proposition only apply to the people's rights law, and the EEA rules are not relevant to the matter, because they override anyway. Yes, that was exactly the question, whether this was part of the same issue as the legal scandal. And Prop. 129 L refers to day pay, redundancy pay, disability benefit, old age pension, disability benefit, disability benefit, action and disability pension, so that is part of the same area. In addition, the Council of State says in Stortinget on 5 November 2019: ‘Although the regulation has been incorporated into Norwegian law, this case’ — that is, the legal scandal — ‘has shown that the legislation has not been available enough. Social security legislation should provide better guidance, both to members of the public interest and to professional actors. I have therefore already asked the Department to start looking at how this best can be done.’ Then it goes beyond our understanding of why we are going to adopt yet another new rule that is probably not informative enough, either for members of the public interest or for professional actors, until this review is completed. So we want to send the matter back to the government. I am addressing the proposals that the Workers' Party is involved in.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e1668	Then the representative Lise Christoffersen has drawn up the proposals to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e1673	The right considers that ensuring the sustainability of the welfare state for the future is one of our most important tasks. Therefore, it has been – and will be – necessary to continue to adjust or change benefits and schemes so that they reflect their intention to introduce them. Most benefits under the Swedish Social Security Act are already governed by the principle that residence and residence in Norway is a condition for obtaining support. It follows naturally from this that social benefits are adapted to the Norwegian wage and cost levels. If living in countries with a significantly lower salary than Norway, the allowance will in many cases go to families where the beneficiary himself, the dependent spouse or the other parent of the dependent child has a relatively high income. In these cases, the purpose of the additions tested will no longer be present. In addition, when the recipient is living outside Norway, the control possibilities are weakened. It is also worth noting that the matter has been at the hearing and that the majority of the hearing bodies are in favour of the proposed amendments or support the intention of the proposal. Those who are negative are mostly individuals residing abroad and an association of interests of Norwegian citizens residing in Thailand. Therefore, on the part of the majority, we believe that the proposal is good and respects the principle that welfare benefits should primarily be ensured for those living and staying in Norway. In the light of the recent case of incorrect use of the law when staying in the EEA country, which has been examined by several, it is important to point out that the requirement of residence and residence in Norway for the right to a spouse and child allowance in practice is likely to be a requirement for residence and residence in the EEA territory. Thus, the new rules will mainly take effect in cases where recipients or dependent children or spouses are living in non-EEA countries, with which Norway has not concluded a social security agreement. Today, this applies largely to Thailand, the Philippines, Morocco, Pakistan and Lebanon. There is therefore no reason to fear similar problems with this case as in the Nav scandal, what was revealed there, as the EEA issue has been carefully taken into account in the case. It is therefore also difficult to understand that this should be some reason to vote against the case today and unnecessarily delay it, as I understand that it is this problem that is really the only argument that those who have been up and spoken against the case from the pulpit today are going to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e1682	The case concerns whether to require residence and residence in Norway for children and spouses for whom a dependant allowance is received and whether to require residence in Norway for recipients of a dependant allowance for old age pension and disabled persons. The proposal will only be effective if the recipient or dependent child/spouse is located in countries outside the EEA with which Norway has not concluded a social security agreement. I would like to stress that the centre party is to limit the export of social security benefits, but it is very demanding what criteria are to be used to make it fair for them at the same time. So the criteria for limiting social security benefits are very central. The government's proposal tightens the legislation for people who live or stay outside the EEA, where we do not have a social security agreement, but does not tighten up for those who live and live in the EEA territory. For the Central Party, it is not obvious that we should make such a clear distinction between countries within and outside the EEA. The representative Tonning Riise was seafaring in this, where one of his premises was pay-and-cost differences. There are huge differences in earnings and costs in living in the EEA territory, as there are huge differences for those living outside the EEA territory. There are many countries outside the EEA that have a level of pay and costs that is much higher than many countries in the EEA territory. There is therefore a need to address the matter more thoroughly, also as a result of the ongoing legal scandal in Nav. That is why the Central Party is behind proposals Nos. 1 and 2 in the setting, which essentially involves sending the matter back to the government to get this more thoroughly processed.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e1693	Today, the SV will vote to send back to the government the proposals that were made in Prop. 129 L, while asking the government, if necessary, to bring a new case before the Storting when the reasons for the legal scandal with incorrect interpretation of EEA law have been clarified. That is why today we are voting against the proposals of the government. However, what must be quite clear before the decision of the Stortinget is taken is whether the decision complies with the obligations of Norway to other countries. On this basis, SV asked the Council of State after the situation in Nav was known to the public, a matter which could also include the same subject matter as the matter we are dealing with today. The question SV asked to the Council of State was, first of all, to propose in Prop. 129 L can be affected by what appeared in the press conference on 28 October 2019, about bad Nav practices? And secondly, can the government guarantee that there are some clarifications that the changes do not conflict with other obligations under agreements or conventions to which Norway is a party? The answer given by the Council of State to these two questions in letters of 6 November 2019 concluded that: ‘I cannot therefore see that the case referred to is relevant to the legislative proposals promoted in Prop. 129 L.’ For SV this is not good enough. One important task we have here at Stortinget now is to create confidence in welfare management. In the media and through questions that have come to us, there is clearly uncertainty in different ways, and the trust in welfare management, as we all know, has been seriously broken lately. Therefore, it is important that we are extra vigilant now as to whether this might conflict with other obligations under agreements and conventions to which Norway is a party. We're gonna have to clean this up. Of course, legislation should be transparent, familiar to those in debt and administered in accordance with decisions. We need to be sure that we're safe as lawmakers. There is nothing to capture in retrospect. The spouse and children’s allowance are economically tested schemes. Recipients of these benefits are low-income households. With any loss of these benefits due to a stay abroad, we must be sure that this does not conflict with any other obligations of Norway, and that the legislation is well known both in the recipient group and in the administration. On the basis of this and because we have not received satisfactory insurance from the Council of State, SV, together with the Labour Party and the Centre Party, makes a proposal asking the government to bring forward a new case after the reasons for the legal scandal with incorrect interpretation of EEA law have been identified, and solutions for making the legislation more accessible have been considered. We also propose today to send the proposal back to the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e1715	The legislative proposals in this proposition have two purposes. One is to limit welfare exports. The second is to tighten public support for parents who send their children to countries where they are at risk of coercion and care failure. We suggest that the children and spouses for whom a dependant supplement is received should stay and stay in Norway. We also suggest that the person receiving an allowance for their old age pension or disability benefit should live in Norway. I believe that one of the most important things we do is to ensure that children who grow up in Norway get to live independent and free lives. Then it is important that we guarantee their right to education and prevent negative social control. Not least, it means protecting them from being subjected to coercion and violence. This is a priority area for the government. In 2017, we presented an action plan against negative social control, forced marriage and gender mutilation. It is clear from the Granavolden platform that we will consider financial penalties against parents who systematically and deliberately deprive children of the opportunity to receive the education they are entitled to. A requirement for children to be provided with child allowances must be maintained in Norway, giving financial incentives not to send children abroad for such stays. At the same time, I would like to stress that this bill is only one of several measures that the government has taken to prevent negative social control. We have a welfare state that takes care of us when we get sick and don't have the opportunity to work, and that makes sure we have something to live on when we get old. We have to protect this. The benefits from popular protection have been adapted to a Norwegian level of costs, and these will have even greater value when living outside Norway. If living in countries with significantly lower levels of pay and expenditure than Norway, the support supplements could be provided to families with relatively high incomes. The purpose of the additions tested is therefore no longer present. I believe it is reasonable to claim residence and residence in Norway for this type of social benefits. The child and spouse supplements are social supplements designed to provide financial security for those who need it the most. By means of the bill, we are just ensuring this. It is important that the population sees the fear of the people as legitimate and that we ensure the emergence of the welfare system. The minority in the Labour and Social Committee proposes that this proposition be returned to the government and that it be considered that a new case should be brought forward after the reasons for the mispractice in the Staff Regulations of Employment and Welfare have been identified and solutions for making the legislation more accessible have been assessed. Although I understand the concerns of the minority in the light of this case, I would like to make it clear that the relationship to relevant international agreements and conventions has been thoroughly assessed in this proposition. It appears that the proposed amendments to the Social Security Act are limited by the frameworks set by international agreements and conventions in the field of social security — including the Social Security Regulation. It also appears that the proposals are mainly effective when the recipient or dependent child and spouse are located in countries outside the EEA or other contracting countries. It is stated in the proposal that if the recipient and, where appropriate, dependent children and spouses are resident in another EEA country, the same shall apply to stays in Norway. The government has now set up an external investigation committee, and a work has been set up in the department with a broad assessment of the practice of the EEA rules against the rules of the Law on Social Security. A central objective here is to ensure proper practice in the future in time, including the changes in the size of the market to be adopted. This work is scheduled to be completed before the amendments enter into force on 1 July 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e1730	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e1735	Finally, the Council of State stated that the relationship with EEA legislation has been thoroughly assessed in the case. The proposition reads as follows: ‘The proposals contained in the proposal will thus be effective mainly if the recipient or dependent child and spouse are located in countries outside the EEA or other contracting country.’ [[including Switzerland]] Then I would like the Council of State to give an example of the fact that the requirements will actually be effective even if the recipient or dependent child or spouse is in an EEA country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e1746	As I just said in my speech from the pulpit, it says explicitly in the proposition, on page 11, that recipients who live in another EEA country are to be regarded as residents in Norway, and then this change will not apply to them. The requirement is to live in Norway. Norway is in this context to be treated in the same way as the EEA territory. There are several reasons why we have promoted this matter. One is that we want to limit the export of benefits. I feel that there is agreement in Stortinget as well. The second reason is that we want to limit negative social control, that children are sent abroad against their will, and that is also a follow-up to a decision taken in the Stortinget in 2018, in connection with a series of media essays where we saw that many children were sent out of the country, to Quran schools and other. I realized that there was a broad consensus in Stortinget at the time that they wanted to limit the export of benefits, also for that purpose.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e1753	The council used most of the answer to a question I did not ask. We agree with what is the background to the matter. There are other things that make us worried. Then I'm going to try to approach the same question with a slightly different angle. The proposition takes the same reservation as I mentioned in my first line, also with the opposite sign, that the proposed changes have less impact on the stay of workers from the EEA country. In what cases are there the proposed amendments which would actually affect stays in EEA countries other than Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e1758	I cannot rule out that there may be any examples of this being affected. However, as we also say very clearly in the proposition, living in another EEA country is the same as living in Norway in this context – Norway and the EEA area are equally resident in Norway. That is why we also say very clearly and consistently in this proposition that the agreements we have concluded, among other things. as a result of the EEA Agreement, restrictions are placed on the possibility of stopping exports abroad. In general, this proposition will be aimed at limiting the possibilities for exports to countries outside the EEA territory or to other countries with which it is agreed. However, limiting the possibilities of export to countries and to families sending their children out of the country for longer stays abroad, with the negative side it has for these children, has also been an important part of the action plan that I presented in my post.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e1763	Thanks for the answer. I'm recording that the government council may be a little on the waving front, that you can't be quite sure. When the Government of the Proposition reserves the right to say that this will mainly affect residence and residence outside the EEA and to a lesser extent will affect residence in the EEA country, why do such reservations apply if there is no single exception to the rule that residence and residence in the EEA is the same as residence and residence in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e1768	As I said in my previous answer, I cannot rule out that there are some examples – although I am not able to imagine what example it should be now – given the agreement we have concluded, and the restrictions that the regulation is just setting. When it is said that living in another EEA country is equivalent to living in Norway, and the condition for the benefit is to live in Norway, it goes without saying that these changes will mainly affect countries other than those in the EEA region. It is also in line with the action plan we have against negative social control, which I also mentioned in my main post. We want it to be an incentive not to send children abroad to land and regimes where they are not well cared for, just as we saw in the media storage a few years ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e1773	Thank you for your answer – and back to what the Council of State said in its main statement that the relationship with EEA legislation has been ‘considered thoroughly’. But at least two reservations are made in the proposition. On 5 November, the Council of State itself said to the United Kingdom’s pulpit: ‘Safety legislation should provide better guidance, both to members of the public interest and to professional actors.’ Why does the Council of State not see fit to take a new look at this matter when she herself cannot reply to the question of whether there is a derogation — from the fact that living in the EEA is equal to living in Norway and staying in the EEA is equal to staying in Norway — or not?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e1778	I believe that the proposition shows very clearly which agreements we have concluded, and what limitations resulting from those agreements. There is no doubt that we are limited by agreements, and that the EEA Agreement says that living in Norway and living in the EEA territory is equivalent. Yes, I really think deeply and deeply that we should look at the People's Security Act in the light of the matter we are now sitting in – precisely because it has obviously been difficult to read what is the legal state out of Norwegian law. That's what we're now sitting with, too. We are now reviewing this whole process to see where things went wrong in 2012, and perhaps even earlier. How was this regulation implemented? Was it really not possible at the time to read out the regulation what it meant? That's what we're looking at now, and I hope we can get an answer to that, because it goes without saying that the matter we're in is now trapped, is deeply tragic and simply a scandal to everyone affected by it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e1785	One last question, because the council's answer now kind of went into the heart of what I've been trying to ask for, without me thinking I've got a completely satisfactory answer. The Council of State says that, in the light of the regulations, it has been difficult to read the legal situation out of both the law and the regulations. Then I expect that we will get an assessment of it back to Stortinget. Then is the question of the legislative changes that we are invited to take a decision on here today, and which the majority of the population will adopt: are they also going to become part of the legal provisions that need to be amended in the very near future in order for the legislation to become clear enough for those who are going to use it, and for the members of the public interest?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e1792	I guess that's pretty clear for the Storting today at least what's in this proposition. It is also clear which regulations are in force and what restrictions and possibilities the Regulations provide. And I've asked questions on several occasions about it in a better way should come out of the law what is the scope of the law, because it's not obvious when you read it the way it is. This is a work that I have said that I will start, and I will. We are now in the process of clearing up this social security scandal. That's a lot of relationships we're going to have to deal with. We'll have to go back to at least 2012 and maybe earlier. When the review committee's report comes to summer, hopefully we'll get some more answers to what went wrong, where it went wrong, how it could go wrong, and why no one discovered it until we discovered it ourselves this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e1797	The cord shift is over. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e1816	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: The allocated speaking time is limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the government. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows of replies are given after contributions from members of the Government, and those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e1825	This case concerns the National Audit Office’s study on the recognition of training and professional qualifications from abroad, where the National Audit Office has assessed the overall effectiveness and coordination of the schemes. The Riksrevision's findings are as follows: The information for the users is not good enough. It has not been properly arranged for the effective processing of procedures by the approval authorities. Training and professional qualifications from abroad are poorly organised. The scope of approval is characterised by a lack of coordination. It is a unanimous committee that states that a well-functioning system for the recognition of training and professional qualifications from abroad is of great importance to those concerned. We underline the importance of easy access to simple and relevant information for users. A significant part of these are Norwegian foreign students who are seeking competence in regulated health professions but who are not automatically made aware of whether education will be approved in Norway. Another significant group is refugees and immigrants with different backgrounds and different degrees of ability to document their own qualifications. The national audit concludes that the information provided to users is not good enough and that there is a significant potential for improvement. We've noticed that. We also record that the Ministry of Knowledge agrees that the information provided by certain approval authorities could have been better, and we then, of course, assume that the necessary measures are taken. Another thing we've noticed is that three of the five largest approval authorities don't have a procedural system that makes it possible to find evaluations in previous cases. This makes the procedure arbitrary and allows for random results of the examination of applications. In its report, the National Audit Office points out that in many cases rejection of applications for authorisation is not supplemented by information on the ability to build on competence. In the opinion, the Committee notes that information on options for supplementary measures is very important in order to help users to continue processes in order to secure their job qualifications. The National Audit Office recommends that the Ministry of Knowledge initiates sectoral ministries to ensure that the information on authorisation schemes is better and more user-oriented, and that common principles should be established for applicants from outside the EU/EEA. The National Audit Office also recommends that the Ministry advise the municipalities on their responsibilities for the recognition of foreign secondary education, so that the road to completion of secondary education does not go beyond what is necessary. The Committee agrees on these recommendations and supports them. With that, I recommend the unanimous vote, which is that the matter be annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e1861	The National Audit Office's report addresses a very important field of action affecting many individuals, as well as the Nordics with foreign education as well as migrant workers and refugees. The recognition schemes for training and professional qualifications from abroad shall help to enable persons with such backgrounds to use their competences in education and working life in Norway to meet the need for skilled labour. In order for Norwegian working life to meet its skills needs, we depend on the use of the individual’s competences in a good way. Persons with foreign competence may have difficulties in using their skills in the Norwegian labour market. The recognition systems for competence from abroad are therefore important tools. Different authorisation schemes exist. On the one hand, there is the system for the recognition of education. This includes the NOKUT higher education, post-secondary, vocational and professional recognition systems at universities and colleges. On the other hand, we have the authorisation system to be able to exercise a regulated profession, professional recognition. A regulated profession means that the authorities in law or regulation require specific qualifications for the right to use the professional title and/or to exercise the profession. There is a substantial difference between the recognition of education and professional recognition. Recognition of education is voluntary and may assist persons with foreign education. On the other hand, professional recognition is a requirement for a person with foreign qualifications to be able to pursue a regulated profession in Norway. A general and professional recognition of foreign education does not imply the right to practise in regulated professions. The report of the National Audit Office does not make this clear. As regards the recommendations of the National Audit Office, I am aware that the information on the different approval schemes and the approval authorities could have been better for professional recognition. I would therefore like to take initiatives towards sectoral ministries in order to improve information and make it more accessible to users. The Ministry regularly meets with the professional approval authorities. These meetings will focus on different topics of professional recognition, including: various questions of interpretation relating to professional recognition. I agree that it is an advantage to spread knowledge of best practice in this forum, which is already done in the meetings, but I will follow this up further. In the case of supplementary education, the Ministry of Knowledge will cooperate with the Departments of Sector and will assess the need to establish more of these services. Since supplementary education is not part of the ordinary tasks of universities and higher education institutions, such education requires additional funding in addition to the ordinary appropriations. The Ministry of Knowledge will therefore work to raise the awareness of sectoral ministries about this possibility to qualify for training from abroad for work in its own sector. In the forthcoming Single European Act on Skills Reform, Learning Lifelong, the field of recognition will also be included as one of the key areas of competence reform. I want to come back to Stortinget with my assessment of the acceptance field in this. The report of the National Audit Office and the current attitude of the Control and Constitutional Committee are important inputs to this Communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e1878	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e1895	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: The allocated speaking time is limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the government. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to five rows of replies are given after contributions from members of the Government, and those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e1904	I would first like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in dealing with these two issues. We are discussing two representative proposals here. They deal with both maternity, birth and maternity services. The Committee held consultations on the issues and participated in the association of Norwegian nurses, Norwegian midwives and Norwegian doctors. The debate on food offers creates a great deal of commitment across the country. That's understandable. Pregnant women are in a very vulnerable position, both during pregnancy, during childbirth and in subsequent childbirth. Therefore, it is important that all women feel safe and get the help they need throughout this course. Fortunately, Norway is one of the countries in the world where birth is safest. That's still the way it should be. In fact, women were more satisfied with birth and maternity care in 2017 than they were in 2011. So it's going to go forward. Fewer women and children are also injured during birth. In other words, there is a positive trend, which shows that birth in Norway is becoming safer and safer. Even if we know this, it doesn't mean that we don't work for the food supply to get even better. That's something we always have to work for. This is why the government has set up a working group to look at the complexity of birth care and its impact on the need for competence and staffing at the women’s clinics. They will also look at whether the current funding of maternity care is accurate. The working group was given a deadline of 1 March 2020. The majority of the members of the Committee are positive in this respect. The majority of the Committee also refers to the 2014 maternity guideline, where it is clear that the municipal health service and the specialist health service have a common responsibility for the organisation of a coherent and good offer. This means that the specialist health service should not reduce its offer until the municipalities have developed a good enough offer for the follow-up of mother and child. A good and well-functioning follow-up service is important for the safety of the natives. Therefore, the accompanying service should be identified, as the government has already commissioned. This also highlights the majority of members of the Committee, and it shows that a lot of good work is already in progress to improve food supply in our country. At the same time, we know that there is still a need for more midwives in the municipalities. Although the midwife's capacity has been built up over several years, in fact it has almost doubled under this government, it is nevertheless important that municipalities continue to give priority to midwives when making their budgets. This is one of the reasons why we reintroduced the law requirement on midwifery competence in the municipalities from 1 January 2018, a legal requirement for red-greens removed in their time. The number from the SSB shows that 98.8 pst. all municipalities have midwifery skills available through enhanced midwifery, inter-municipal cooperation or cooperation with the specialist health service. It is safe to feed in Norway, and it should always be. Among other things, the key to ensuring safety for the unborn is: good soil preparedness locally, accompanying services for those with a long route and close cooperation with the ambulance service. There is a lot of good work already going on here. So even though the majority does not support any of the proposals that are being promoted today, that doesn't mean that we don't want birth care to improve. However, monitoring of the accompanying service, which is under way, and the Health Directorate's mission to set up a professional group to look at whether the working situation of midwives has changed over time, are much better and more effective measures to improve maternity care than to wait for several years at a NOU. I'm assuming that the opposition will explain the minority's view.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e1929	Like the country's midwives, I've been a little busy today, so I have to use the PC as a tool up here. Three out of ten midwives at Stavanger University Hospital are considering quitting their job. Five out of ten midwives at Drammen Hospital are considering quitting their job. Six out of ten midwives at Ahus are considering quitting their job. There is something serious about the supply of food in Norway. In a few weeks' time, we will be debating the state budget for 2020. It's a budget that in no way helps to reverse the negative trend we're now seeing. Before the summer, the Norwegian midwife association conducted a survey of its members, where it appears that more than 200 midwives at the country's largest maternity wards are considering quitting. The Prime Minister in his New Year speech called on Norwegian women to give birth to more children. Now it is time for the government to do its part of the job and provide a safe and good food supply throughout the country. It's about women who have a long way to go to their delivery and need the support of both ambulance staff and midwife to make the trip safe, and it's about the women in the big cities who need to be met by a hospital with enough space and enough people. The largest hospitals in the eastern region reported burst capacity before the year’s autumn season for births. According to the Soccer Association, the warnings were not taken seriously, leading to several serious deviations in the summer. VG has been given access to the deviations, and I want to reproduce a few of them. I quote: ‘First-time birth with a known serious congenital state in the child is in active birth. There is no free living room or midwife. It is therefore not possible to monitor the foetus according to procedure.’» Further: «Red code at night, for several hours. More women in birth than midwives. Of these, several are risk births requiring continuous monitoring and observation.» And... ‘Women in active birth were alone in the maternity ward for three hours.’ None of these women have received the offer this room thinks they should have. Norwegian women shall receive one-to-one care from midwife when they are in active birth. Norwegian women shall have access to accompanying services if they have more than 90 minutes of travel to their nearest place of birth. The Labour Party shows with the proposals we are making on this issue, but also in its alternative budget, that we are taking the fight for a better supply of food for the country's midwives. We want to end the practice where the maternity wards get less paid when the births have gone well, because we need to get ready for work if the next woman has complications. We want to give all midwives in the municipalities a full position because the follow-up service can be what determines whether the woman has a safe birth or not. We want to stop the chronic underfunding of our hospitals because it is not possible that women are kept at home for so long that they end up being born outside the hospital. That children are born is daily for both our society and our health care system, but that is perhaps the least daily experience as a human being. Through a long pregnancy, both the body and the head must prepare for birth. Then it is important to know that the food supply is safe and available wherever you live. When both staff and midwives call for caution, we must take it seriously. In that case, the government parties on autopilot cannot answer that Norway is the world’s best country to live in. If it is still the world's best country to live in, we must defend this offer every day, and we must defend this offer in every state budget. With that, I address the proposals of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e1964	The representative, Tuva Moflag, has drawn up the suggestions she made. The size pauses until voting time. 15th
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e1987	Then Mr Stortinget will vote on agenda No. 22, case No. 1–6, and Case No. 11, Unit. Voting on the remaining items on today's map, i.e. case no. 7-10, be taken at the next vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e1998	Case No. 1 and 2 are second time legal proceedings and relate to legislative acts 6 and 7. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e2012	A total of 17 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1-13, from Åsunn Lyngedal on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 14, from Åsunn Lyngedal on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party proposal No 16, from Åsunn Lyngedal on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No 17, from Kjersti Top on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 18, from Torgeir Knag County on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 15, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, was not promoted. There is a vote on proposal No. 18, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The Government is asked to establish a State-owned production of medicinal products, StatMed, which, through agreements with regional health companies, ensures the production of important medicinal products, and to strengthen research and development of new, necessary medicines.» Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e2049	There is a vote on proposal No. 17, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The Government is asked to establish a support system whereby pharmaceutical manufacturers may enter into commitments with the State, where, in accordance with certain criteria, the State can cover part of the expenditure on research and development of medicinal products, in return for public access to the necessary medicinal products at an agreed low price for a defined period of time afterwards.» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e2066	There is a vote on proposal No. 16, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to set up a programme to ensure the financing of mature health clusters and to ask the government to return to the RNB with regard to how this can be implemented.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e2083	There is a vote on proposal No. 14, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure the establishment of a national centre for clinical studies.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e2101	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-13, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Investinor to ensure that an investment programme is drawn up in order to develop and strengthen investment in the health industry.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose measures to secure capital during the period between start-up and commercialisation in the health industry.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for priority to be given to setting up a health analysis platform and an analytical ecosystem that can handle all types of health data. A common national framework should be established to ensure that as much as possible of the value creation remains in Norway. Clear driving rules relating to contractual works, intellectual property rights, data ownership, consent management, privacy and data sharing must be established.’;» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the development of business models that stimulate innovation and at the same time provide a fair distribution of any added value between publicly funded research efforts, the value of health data, researchers and business actors, including considering the creation of fully or partially owned state-owned companies.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to earmark research resources to develop new treatment and lifelong learning measures for chroniclers. Methodologically, cross-disciplinary teams consisting of healthcare, research environment, business. It is important that the user perspective is respected.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate and pilot new funding models that allow the development of personalised medicine in Norway, so that Norwegian patients can access tried and tested treatment as early as possible and thus prevent a two-part healthcare system.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up guidelines for innovative acquisitions by regional health businesses and to ensure that the guidelines are followed up in practice.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to explore the possibilities for the production of penicillin and other particularly important medicinal products in Norway.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to facilitate the self-production of selected critically important medicinal products in Norway, such as antibiotics, through public-private cooperation.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to determine the production capacity in Norway and what essential medicinal products can and should be produced nationally to ensure supply and preparedness, and to return to the Stortingen on a case-by-case basis.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asked to review and strengthen the hospital’s production capacity on important medicinal products.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate and actively facilitate the production of antibiotics in Norway.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The Government requests the establishment of its own Pilot-H programme for health technology, in accordance with the Pilot-E model for maritime industry.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e3209	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e3219	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e3231	In the course of the debate, a total of ten proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Kirsti Leirtrø on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Bengt Fasterale on behalf of the Centre Party the proposals No 3 and 4, by Arne Nävra on behalf of the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 5-10, from Seher Aydar on behalf of Red There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5, 6 and 8, from Red. Proposal No. 5 sounds: «The government is asked to provide a system to facilitate toll rebates for those with low income.» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to assess the social impact of tolls and various social moderation schemes, including road pricing models that take account of income, and to recover through lower taxes to those with average and low incomes, and to return to the Storting appropriately.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking to stop major road development projects financed by tolls.’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e3273	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 7, 9 and 10, from Red. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government requests the launch of a trial project with free public transport for children up to and including the year they reach the age of 13 in areas with a high toll load.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: «The government is asked to propose a strong increase in the state funding of the urban environment packages and urban growth agreements and the specific grants for large collective projects.» Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asked to develop a new system for financing transport projects where the financing of large public road projects via tolls is not possible and where projects that increase road safety ensure safe transport in districts and reduce total emissions from the transport sector are prioritised over capacity-seeking motorway projects. This is provided in the context of the next roll-out of the national transport plan.’» The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e3302	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a fair road pricing to compensate for today’s tolls and other user-related car charges.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal. Red has announced subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e3321	There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to have an explicit assessment criterion for improving the social and geographical profile of the user payment in the ongoing investigation into new technologies that can replace the current toll system.’ Red has announced support for the proposal. The Workers' Party has announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e3341	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to remove the condition for the reduction of tolls and ticket prices for public transport in order to increase its contribution to large collective projects.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal. The Workers' Party has announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e3360	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide an inquiry into the charging policy which includes an assessment of the social consequences of tolls.’ Red has announced support for the proposal. The Workers' Party has announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e3386	Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e3405	A total of eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Arild Grande on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, the proposals No 3-6, from Arild Grande on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 7, from Arild Grande on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No 8, from Solfrid Lerbreck on behalf of the Socialist Left Party
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e3423	There is a vote on proposal No. 8, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The Government is asked to review the rules governing the transfer of activities and to propose amendments to the law which ensure that workers do not lose their jobs when a contract of invitation to tender expires and which strengthen the rights of workers in the event of transfer of business. The review shall cover both the private and public sectors, and particular attention shall be paid to services such as cleaning, renovation, watchkeeping and road maintenance.’;» Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e3440	There is a vote on proposal No. 7 from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The Government is asked to review the rules governing the transfer of activities and to promote legislative proposals that strengthen the rights of employees in the public and private sectors of their business and when contracts expire. In particular, clean-up, renovation, watchkeeping, janitorial and road maintenance sectors should be considered.’;» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal. The Socialist Left has announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e3459	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3–6, from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: «The government is asked to review the effects of the right of reservation in the second paragraph of Section 16-2 of the Working Environment Act, including the impact on pay and working conditions, and to promote legislative proposals to strengthen the conditions of employees in the event of transfer of business.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: «The Government is asked to make proposals to ensure that the pay and working conditions are not impaired as a result of the invitation to tender.» Proposal No. 5 sounds: «The government is asking the government to assess the impact of the outsourcing in different sectors, with particular emphasis on the impact of the outsourcing on workers and their working conditions, and to propose legislative changes that strengthen the position of workers.» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that all plans for the outsourcing of clean-up in State establishments are stopped and that already open-ended clean-up services are withdrawn as soon as practicable.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e3500	Alternatively, between the setting and the proposals No. 1 and 2 from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that State activities on the basis of competition impose stricter wage and pension conditions and working conditions on employees of public companies.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that state enterprises do not design the basis of competition so that lower wage and pension conditions or worse working conditions are the reason why government does not choose to do the work on its own.’ The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e3649	The budget will then continue to deal with Agenda No. Case No 22, Case No. 9th@item: inlistbox The president asks people to sneak out of the hall silently. The next speaker is Jan Steinar Engeli Johansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e3656	Good health care for the individual patient and access to a competent and well-organised primary health service, no matter where you live in the country, is important. These are important prerequisites for a good and safe life. Good and equivalent health care for pregnant and pregnant women is important, and Norway is one of the safest countries in the world to be born. However, the opposition believes that the offer is in the wrong direction. Yes, there is still a need for more midwives in the municipalities. Nevertheless, it is important to clarify that the midwife’s capacity in the municipalities has been built up over several years, and there has been a close doubling in the number of midwifery posts with the bourgeois government. In 2013, there were 279 nurseries in the municipalities, while by the end of 2019 there will be about 540. I don't think this is going in the wrong direction; it's rather the opposite of a right and positive development. This has been an important area for the government, and the government reintroduced the law requirement on midwifery competence in the municipalities from 1 January 2018. Through these proposals, the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV are concerned about a centralised food supply in our country. Nevertheless, they seem to forget that the Stoltenberg government shut down four feeding rooms and two food departments during their reign, which cannot be characterised as anything other than just a centralization, and no more food departments or feeding rooms were established either. This government, on the other hand, has stimulated and worked for a strengthening of the offer and a strengthening of the competence. Over several years, midwifery skills have increased, and the state budget for 2019 saw 40 million. kr of the subsidy for the strengthening of health centre and school health services earmarked for midwives – a designation otherwise proposed in the State budget for 2020. I find the criticism and concern of the opposition strange, all the time the SSB figures published in June this year show a positive trend with increased number of midwifery. If we also include the number of annual works in 2018, we can say that there has been an increase in the number of midwifery works in health and school health services of about 66 p.m. from 2013. These figures show one thing: that the work of ensuring comprehensive and good maternity care throughout the country is a priority for the government. I am sure that the government will continue to stimulate a lift for the midwife service to ensure adequate midwifery capacity across the country, completely independent of the opposition's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e3677	When every two midwives in the major maternity wards consider giving up, it is not useful to say that we have the best maternity care. Norway is a good country to be born in comparison with other countries, but the Minister of Health Höie and the Government Party disapprove of all criticisms and concerns such as fear propaganda is, in fact, very unacceptable, and it is dangerous. For those who refuse to take over the fact that a whole central service actually moves in the wrong direction, at the same time refuses to improve. That's the last Norwegian health service needed, and that's the last Norwegian nanny needed. It's a good idea to listen, and it's a good idea to listen to midwives, to the children's teachers, to those who have our and are midwives, and to all those who are concerned about increased labour pressure on our food departments, who are concerned about low-staffing, who are concerned about past and past discharges, who are concerned about falling breast-feeding, who are concerned about several dehydrated children, who are concerned about our transport births, who are concerned that the number of municipalities with travel time of over two hours to the nearest food department has increased considerably and are now up to 18 p.m., and who are concerned that 77 municipalities are missing follow-up services in such a situation. We know that travel time is over an hour, increases the risk for both mother and child, and that access to food institutions is an important quality factor. This is where the debate must start, but instead we have a government that is in a defensive position, and not enough of them doing it now, they did it in 2015, in 2016, in 2017 and in 2018 – every year the opposition on the Stortinget has put forward proposals to strengthen maternity care and maternity care, but we have not been heard, and until now there are some things happening because the government has been pressing so strongly, especially by the midwives themselves. In 2008/2009, the red-green government issued a big message on related maternity, maternity and maternity care. After that, we have not had a big message showing which way to go. What has happened in retrospect is that the development has gone in the wrong direction, because in that big news Stortinget clearly told us that quality requirements would be met for both maternity care and maternity care. Health care providers were instructed to develop local and regional plans for both maternity and maternity care, but what has happened is that the regional plans have not led to the stability and conditions required by the services and the quality requirements developed have not been followed up in the services, although we have pointed it out this year after year. To finance: Of course, it is quite unimaginable that today’s maternity care is 50 p.m. Intermediary financed. The centre party has repeatedly suggested changing the funding of maternity care, but received support from only SV and the Christian People's Party. Hence, it is gratifying today that the Labour Party is also in favour of this now. It is only so bad that the Christian People's Party has disappeared into government and can no longer support its own policy. Because when it's a primer of complications, but it doesn't give extra money when a preventer does, one can't expect anything more than that the situation is the same as he is. I have also heard that because of lower birth rates, DRG credits will also go down to next year, and one will get up to 100 million. kr less for maternity care because of this funding system. We can't have it this way. Finally, I would like to mention proposal No. 8, from the Center Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e3692	The representative Kjersti Toppe has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e3697	There's a birth and maternity revolt all over the country. Food departments are being closed down, the accompanying services for pregnant women are getting worse, and the food departments have a high demand for tightening up. Early repatriation is planned for the midwives, while only half of the country's municipalities have a municipal landlady. Mothers throughout the country call out a warning and experience poor and poor maternity care. The ladies dress in the finest they have, to fight for the dearest they have. ‘Bunadsgeriljaen’ has become a concept in Norway. Now it's time we listened to the experience of the midwives. SV believes it is time for a full review of how mother and child are followed up before and after birth, where particular attention is paid to economics, funding and organisation. Pending such a study, specific decisions are necessary to ensure that the preparation of maternity, maternity and maternity care is carried out as soon as possible. According to figures from the League of Landlords, only half of the municipalities of the country have employed a municipal landlady. This means that you are far from complying with the guidelines on maternity care, and that there are wide variations in the supply of completely fresh families. However, health businesses are planning new hospitals on condition that maternity care is good enough to receive new mothers even earlier. This applies, for example: the new university hospital in Haukeland, which is planned to be built with fewer maternity rooms because a very large proportion of women who are pregnant are expected to return home during the first 24 hours after birth. The follow-up service is one of the places where the transition between specialist health services and community health services can lead to dangerous and unsafe situations for the unborn. The maternity guidelines state that where there is more than 90 minutes of travel, the midwife should be followed by the midwife to the place of birth. Nevertheless, according to the Earthmother's covenant, this is only followed up to 20 pst. by the municipalities. On November 19, we were able to read in the Newspaper about midwives who have for a long time been notifying of pressure. At A-hus, six midwives have resigned in just the last two months. "We are too few people in relation to the number of births although we are constantly told that we have fewer births than before," said Anette Johannesen, trust elected at Akershu University Hospital. She's been working as a midwife since 2013. And this is not the only message of concern that has emerged. A number of concerns from trustees at the country's food departments have been extensively re-written in this case. The municipalities therefore have a great lack of municipal land mothers, and one of the reasons is that the municipalities do not employ midwives or that they publish small posts. While it does not cost the municipalities when the residents use fixed ones, which receive state reimbursements, the midwives are paid over the municipal budgets. This is one of the reasons why you do not get the follow-up of a midwife during pregnancy. So there's a big challenge in the country's maternity wards, there's a shortage of midwives, and, as I said at the beginning, there's a birth and maternity revolt all over the country. The midwives experience poorer and poor maternity care. Now it's time we listened to the experience of the midwives. Therefore, SV believes that we need an overall review. The measures proposed by the government so far are far from good enough. That's why we think the measures need to be started now.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e3714	Good and equivalent health care for pregnant and pregnant women is of great importance. Norway is, and will continue to be, one of the safest countries in the world to be born. But we see that the average age of the first-born has risen, and this is one of the factors that have helped to make maternity care more complicated. I am therefore very pleased that work has been started to explain what changes in the complexity of maternity care mean for staff and for the funding system – the Health Directorate has assigned a working group with deadline of 1 March 2020. I look forward to the sample status report, but in the meantime I will share two concerns. In the latest issue of the Member's Magazine for Mothers of the Earth, published by the Norwegian midwife's association, I read a longer interview with a leader who, for health reasons, had to leave his leadership job at a large, new and modern food department in the East. She experienced as head of 80 employees being under an incredibly strong pressure due to high sick leave, midwife shortages and high demands on patient safety and professional quality. It was a working day that did not go up. My second concern is the condition of normal birth. Have we come into a situation where complications are what pays off? It is clear that these headlines are troubling me: «Fears the midwife flight from A-hus», the newspaper of 19 November. «Earthmothers high-pressure warning», TV2 on 3 September. «Earth-moring shortage», Dagsnytt18 on 2 September. «We must ensure that midwives are able to stand at work», VG on 16 August. ‘New survey: over 200 midwives in the country’s largest hospital are considering termination’, VG on 15 August. The Norwegian midwife association conducted a survey in June among its 700 members at the OUS, Haukeland University Hospital, Stavanger University Hospital, Akershu University Hospital, and Vestre Viken. The numbers showed that 52.2 pst. by those who asked have considered stopping. 78 pst. the reason is that there is no correlation between work and resources. At Ahus say 66 pst. that they have assessed termination. Clearly, these are concerns that we, as health politicians, must take seriously. The Ministry of Health and Welfare collected information from all the RHFs in August this year to get an overview of what they are doing to maintain and recruit midwives. Continuously, it is important to offer high job rates for recruitment. The figures show that the number of midwiferies in hospitals per 10,000 births has increased, from 265.5 in 2015 to 273.9 in 2018. In absolute terms, on the other hand, the number of midwifery works has decreased by 57 in the same period. We have one thing we need to tackle, and I look forward, as I said, to the working group that has been set up with a mission to shed light on what changes in complexity, including, in maternity care, mean for manpower and for the funding system. As I said, we are expected to receive answers in March. We need a safe food supply all over the country. It involves safe funding, and that also means that we need to secure working conditions with high job rates.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e3731	Norway is one of the safest countries in the world to be born, both for mother and for child. But it hasn't come of itself. It has come out of battle for better maternity and maternity care for women. It's been fought, and that fight isn't over. All over the country, maternity wards are threatened with closure, summertime operations, and staffing is right on the pain line in many places. With the slogan «Security for children and mother, we want the food where we live» the bulwark guerrilla has spread all over the country, from Northern Moravia to Helgeland. And it's not so strange that the closure of maternity wards creates so much protest. There is twice the risk of life-threatening complications when there is more than one hour of travel to the food establishment. Pregnancy in Norway has been given a longer route to the provision of food. When the route in the districts can be in both two and three hours, with different weather conditions, it clearly leads to risk, and when we know that the risk increases further, it means that government policy at longer distances is planning for increased risk to the natives. According to the obstetrician and researcher Hilde Engjom, the size of the maternity ward does not determine whether mother and child are doing well, but the distance. In the case of unplanned births outside the institution, there is three times the risk of the child dying. These are harsh facts, and it should be a wake-up call for politicians from all parties. It's no use being content to say that we're doing so well, that we're lucky because it's mostly going well, and that we have a lot of good midwives and babysitting who work all year round to make it go well. Even midwives report very high labour pressure and that they are not allowed to do their job satisfactorily because there is a lack of resources. Last year, 7 out of 28 maternity rooms were closed at St. Olav's hospital. In the major maternity wards in the East, there have been repeated reports of detonation and too few midwives at work. At the Haukeland Women's Clinic, 18 years have been cut since 2015. I wouldn't be satisfied with it if I were in government, to say it mildly, but the government seems more concerned about commending itself than about addressing the real problems women are now facing. Because even though June is the most birthable month, it is also the month that several maternity wards have so called summer. So even though Norway has never been richer as a nation than what we are right now, we can't afford what we could afford before. And what are we going to think about a society that's getting richer and richer, but that's always cutting and saving in what's related to women's health? A week ago, we marked the day of equal pay because women still serve worse than men in Norway. It is a discrimination against women's work. Yesterday we marked the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women, because one in three women in the world are going to be subjected to violence. Today we stand here and ask the government to provide even safer births for even more people. It's a relationship. It is important and incredibly important that districts and women do not become down priorities. Red will continue to cooperate with people's reactions, trade unions and other stakeholders to call about our food departments and our food supply.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e3746	I cannot accept the argument that the opposition, with Kjersti Toppe, uses in this matter. One tries to create a picture that the opposition is concerned with strengthening the birth offer in Norway while the government estimates the situation and does nothing. It's directly wrong. When this government took over in 2013, there was a strong need for a strong commitment to the midwife service in the municipalities, which the previous government had not only lowered priorities, they had even removed the legal requirement that there should be midwives in the municipalities. The result is that we now, after six years, have a close doubling of the number of midwives in the municipalities, and that in a period when birth rates have unfortunately declined – so the capacity is more than doubled. The next Earthmothers' Association took up was the need to ensure the presence during birth in our hospitals. I also listened to that and immediately demanded that it be reported. So the Earthmothers' Association took up the challenge of manning during the summer holidays. I also followed that up and asked the health regions to ensure better planning of the crew during the summer, which was also followed up. At the same time, the government changed the admission criteria for kindergartens, which has also reduced the birth pressure in summer, during the holidays. The midwife association has now addressed the challenges of accompanying services, which I have also said will be followed up in the mission document of the health regions for 2020. In June of this year, the Earth’s Mothers’ Association addressed the challenge related to the special staffing of the major food departments at the workplace. This resulted in political leadership in the department meeting with them, and we have followed it up. We've set up a fast-working group where the Earthmothers' Association is involved, under the Health Directorate, and it's going to make its recommendation on 1 March next year. It is in stark contrast to the proposal in this proposal for a representative, which is to start with a NOU work that could have an effect in hospitals in four to six years' time. Here we will be able to get results early next year. It is absolutely right that we have good maternity care in Norway. We're going to take care of it and improve it. In the two proposed representatives, there are a number of proposals that I believe have already been well taken care of, both through the National Health and Hospital Plan, through the interaction agreement between regional health companies and municipalities, through supervisors and national professional guidelines and through the new assignments to health regions and the Health Directorate. I'm never going to say that we're in target in terms of quality and patient safety, even in maternity care. As part of this quality work, we have, as I said, asked the Health Directorate to set up a working group such as: shall assess the appropriate competence and staffing of women’s clinics and the need for changes. The group shall also review the selection criteria for birth, set out in the ‘Safe food supply’ guide, and assess whether current funding for maternity care is accurate. This task shall also be seen in the context of the task now being assigned to health regions to monitor and provide an accompanying service for pregnant women. Then we will continue to increase the midwife's capacity in municipalities to achieve the best possible quality in the follow-up to pregnancy and maternity. As I said, we have already contributed to a significant increase in the number of midwifery for 2013-2018 through health and school health services, and from 1 January 2018 all municipalities were required to have midwifery competence as part of their core competence, possibly in cooperation with other municipalities. It is expected that the midwife's capacity has also increased further in the year we are in, but preliminary COSTRA figures will only be available in March. As I said at the outset, I believe that the intention of this representative proposal and the verbatim proposals that are being discussed in the Stortinget today has already been respected, and that a public inquiry will not bring about anything new. A NOU work will take about two years. Then there will be a consultation, possibly followed up with a separate big message, which will take another one to two years. Then these measures are to be phased in, and that means that birth and health care workers will only notice results of this work by 2024 at the earliest. It has neither the midwives nor the birthing time to wait. That is why I think we need to start action faster, and I believe that the work we have started is just responding to the challenges that have been pointed out. But history also shows that when midwives address concrete challenges they face in their working life, they are listened to and action is taken, and that is perhaps one of the reasons why we are constantly getting better birth care in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e3765	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e3771	Today there has been a busy day here at Stortinget, there has been little time for both food, doube visits and other work tasks. It may be a little bad starting point for adopting changes in the law, but I'm, after all, happy that I'm not going to accept a child and be responsible for giving a woman a good birth experience. Three out of ten midwives in Stavanger are considering quitting their job. Five out of ten midwives at Drammen Hospital and six out of ten midwives at Ahus are considering quitting their job. In fact, more than 200 midwives report that they consider cancelling their job because of bursting capacity, especially at the large maternity wards, and that there is so much labour pressure. My question to the Minister of Health is simply: What is the Minister's response to these midwives who are now considering quitting their job?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e3780	My answer is that I took their concerns seriously this summer when they came up with the concern. That is also why I have invited the midwives into the working group set up by the Health Directorate, which will work on concrete proposals to improve this, with a deadline of 1 March next year. If you look at the figures, you could think that everything was all right – the number of years spent in hospitals per 10,000 births has increased in recent years, the number of injuries is falling, the number of births has become more enjoyable. But the midwives are warning me of something that I believe is absolutely a reason to take it very seriously. This is because since a larger proportion of the birthers are older, more and more of the birthers have additional complications, there is every reason to believe that the amount of work per child has increased. So even though the midwifery has improved and the number of births has fallen, there's every reason to believe what the midwives describe about the labour pressure. We're taking that very seriously, and that's why we've followed it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e3787	It is good that we get a recommendation from the working group on 1 March, but the situation is critical here and now, when so many people say that they consider stopping – 66 pst. by the midwives of Aarhus, and six ended only during the autumn. Then I will ask the Minister of Health what concrete action he has taken in the state budget for 2020 to ensure that the situation next year is better for the major food departments. Can we see clear commitment from the Minister of Health to next year's state budget to meet the critical situation we are now seeing at the major food departments?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e3794	Yes, and that is why we have committed to growth in the hospital economy in 2020 as well. But as the representative knows, it's like neither the Stortinget nor the government control the details of where the money for the hospitals is going. This is done by the individual hospital, which is done in the individual health region. But as I've said, we've started this work, we're doing a 2020 mission on the follow-up service, and it needs to be seen in the context of the mission given to the Health Directorate. There is also a clear message to the health business and hospital managers that they must take this situation seriously when designing their budgets for 2020, based on the state budget adopted by the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e3799	In 2010, we received quality requirements for maternity care. I assume that the quality requirements studied and put the Minister of Health at the time he was Minister of Health, because they are the ones he is going to direct the health services out of. What I'm worried about is that something has been going on for a long time, when you look at it: that these quality requirements are broken every day, for example. the requirement that the staffing of the women’s clinics: ‘must be sufficient to ensure proper monitoring and treatment and to comply with the professional recommendation of the presence of a midwife at the active stage of birth’. How can it be that from 2013 until now, before the Minister for Health has found out that one needs to look at how – and whether – these quality requirements are addressed in the service?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e3811	Now, fortunately, that's not right, what the representative says. It has been a long time since I told the health care companies that they should comply with these requirements, including in terms of staffing. These included: some of the background to the requirements to plan the crew better during the summer. There was some background for me to ask the hospitals to report on presence during childbirth, which is a central part of this work. That's why it's not right. What is a challenge, which we have to discuss and which is part of the working group's mandate, is whether there are some of these quality requirements that should be adjusted as a result of changes in the birth population. We see that these requirements today will challenge some of our small food supplies — for example. there are several of the birthers who are told that they must be born in larger food departments due to increased obesity. It is not certain that the requirements designed at the time are appropriate to the current situation, and that is one of the reasons why this too is part of the mandate.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e3818	I have dealt with this with monitoring and to find out if the maternity wards actually follow this quality requirement and one-to-one care. Finally, the Council of State agreed to monitor this. But there's no point in just a mapping, the point is that the government has to know if one-to-one care will actually come out in the services. It is a while since a survey was requested, and now you need to know if this quality requirement is being followed. Or is it that one still doesn't know if one gets one-to-one care at the large food clinics? It's a derailment to start talking about the small food clinics, because there's a one-to-one care. Now, in fact, the Center and I are concerned about the large food clinics and the quality that is given to the pregnant women.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e3823	I'm worried about both the big ones and the little ones. That's why they're both part of this assignment. I fully agree that there is a cause for concern for the large food departments. I think it's those who may notice the workload the most, given that there are several elderly people who give birth, there are more complications, and there are several pregnant women who have side diseases. This means that they get a greater work pressure: several of the birthing births at the larger units, because they are not allowed to give birth at the smaller ones. But it also makes me worry about the smaller ones. I'm concerned about part of the smaller food departments and feeding rooms just because if this development continues, the number of births there will fall sharply. And then we have to balance: are some of the quality requirements right in view of today's situation? I also know that some of the smaller units today are looking a little bit through the fingers with the selection criteria, precisely because the birthers themselves very strongly want to feed at the local food supply. Then I think it's better that we have an open discussion about the criteria directly, because we don't have to have a development where one looks through the fingers with the requirements, then we have to see if we should adjust the requirements.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e3828	National monitoring of food institutions in Norway has not been carried out since 2004. We therefore do not know what is going on around this long-range country, for example. how many receive one-to-one follow-up. The trade union is among those who support the need for a new national supervision of the country’s food departments. Will the Council of State ensure that we get a proper review of the situation in the birthplace in this country, and does the Minister guarantee that everyone will have a one-to-one follow-up during birth?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e3835	With regard to nationwide supervision, it is the Health Authority that has an independent role in assessing it. I don't want to break the important principle that we don't politically control the supervisory bodies, because then we can use the supervisory bodies politically and take away their completely independent role in prioritising those areas where they, for example, are. believes that there is the highest risk. Then I believe that it is wrong to say that we do not know what the offer is like or how the quality of the Norwegian food supply is. There are few other health services that we have so much quality data on, as is the birth offer. Fortunately, the quality data we have from the Medical birth register tell us that food in Norway is safer and safer – fewer and fewer people are injured, fewer and fewer die. That's good. Then we have to take seriously the warnings that come from those who work there, about how the situation is now, for this development we don't want to stop, we want it to continue. This means that we must also listen to those who work in the ministry.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e3842	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e3850	This year's strongest political picture was probably taken in Lake Sandness, where Prime Minister Solberg almost stood in school law in front of a bulwark guerrilla in combat mode. This picture symbolizes people's struggle, women's struggle, for services near people. For the Centre Party, it is important to look at the whole of the food supply and how best to ensure maternity, maternity and maternity care. That is why we are proposing a NOW. The proximity to food supply, quality and staffing is very important, both in the larger cities and elsewhere. Proximity in the larger cities is in a way lost, as birthing women are rejected as far as possible with the reason that it is full – no one has to get into the maternity ward too early. It's a big problem. In other places, it's hard to reach in time. To put the situation in perspective, I would like to tell you about the resource group working with the Helgelands Hospital 2025. In their first proposal for a new Helgelands Hospital, they concluded that it was smart to have a large emergency hospital in Mo in Rana. In the case investigation presented, they had not mentioned the birthing women and the proximity to food supply at all. It's an example of the fact that it's really in the right place to put this even stronger on the agenda. The situation if there is a large hospital with a maternity ward only in Mo in Rana, for women from several municipalities, will be four hours travel by car on dry asphalt. This happens at the same time as the ambulance service is under pressure. The number of ambulances has dropped by 14 pst. since 2002 and none of the health establishments in the country meet the recommended response time for ambulances. A review of the accompanying service shows that the number of municipalities with travel time of more than two hours to the nearest maternity ward has increased from 5 pst. In 2012 to 18 p.m. today. This is, in particular, a challenge in the northernmost states, and there is still a basis for asking – again: Do we fade slowly in North Norway? No, we're siggliva in the north, but we don't bleed slower, neither are those who are going to give birth.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e3859	This representative’s proposal for a healthy and good maternity, maternity and maternity care throughout the country is already being taken care of through the National Health and Hospital Plan. Work is in progress. Nor is it true that hospitals have weakened the provision of maternity care, as Mona Fagerås and Seher Aydar put it. The birth rate has fallen, and how many days Norwegian women want to lie in hospital is now different from before. There are few places in the world that are as safe to feed as in Norway. The mothers feel safe both in the hospital and when they come to their water environment, and it is important to have family life restored as quickly as possible when everything else is normal and mother and child are healthy. But then we see that the number of complicated births has increased. The government has therefore started a quality work where the Health Directorate has set down a working group such as: shall assess the appropriate competence and staffing at the women’s clinics and also the need for changes. And that's exactly what's important – that the government is doing well to make sure that our strong, good professional environment is heard, and that they are involved in the development of safe and secure maternity care. The Health Directorate is responsible for developing, publishing and implementing national professional guidelines for services, and these guidelines recommend that hospital care should always be adapted to the needs of women and the newborn child, an early home visit by midwives and in addition follow-up to health care. That is precisely why we have also strengthened this service. I thought that many of the plans that are now being presented to new, modern hospitals look very promising. Take, for example: Health Bergen, who is now running step 2 of the children's and youth hospital. Here, both paediatrics, paediatric surgery, birth and maternity functions and gynecology will be under the same roof. These good trade unions could then be easily accessible to both mother and child. The concerns of Norwegian midwives are being taken seriously. Work is in progress, and it is being facilitated to make the best of the overall competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e3868	Minister of Health Höie criticises me for the argument – that I criticize something that does not exist. The guerrillas now have around 90 000 – 100 000 members. They are fighting against the closure of the maternity wards in Kristiansund, Lake Sandness, etc. They don't do that for no reason. The midwives stand out in the media, have done it for a long time and tell us about high work pressure, low basic staffing, and that it's only luck that things have gone well. In Bergen there has been more supervision of the women's clinic for the same reason. Do the midwives also work with straw builders? Is it to build a strawman when pediatrics and health sisters stand in the Storting and tell us on our ears that they fear that shorter lay time leads to cleaning and complications? Does the World Health Organization also use strawberry argumentation when recommending that pregnant women should be in a hospital at least 24 hours, even after an uncomplicated birth? Is it strawman construction when the national suckling competence service is concerned that shorter periods of time reduce the amount of breast-feeding? When nurses, the volunteer organisation, tell them that women who are pregnant call them from the maternity ward and ask for advice on breast-feeding, it shows that we actually have a very special situation. The crew is too low in the large feeding clinics. I could have wished I was the one who was wrong. I could have wished I had nothing to criticize. Nothing had pleased me any more, but this really takes me. What we hear here today is once again a trivialization of what the opposition has tried to record year after year, and only now, in the last six months, has something happened. A group has been set up to look at funding, but after I have asked questions, it will not look at input finance – but perhaps I have misunderstood. A monitoring of the order services has been started. Even if the Storting has already adopted this, nothing has happened. I support all the new measures that are coming, but I find it very regrettable that so many years have gone by with this government without having taken the situation seriously. When Minister of Health Höie said in his speech that the midwives have received, and the midwives have been hearing, my point is that it is a minister of health's job to ensure that we have a good development. We have had quality requirements for the provision of food since 2010. We know enough about that, and we could have intervened earlier. That is what forces us to make proposals on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e3879	No, none of those to which the representative refers are arguing with strawman arguments. It's only Kjersti Toppe who's doing it, and she can't stop either, because she ends up with the exact same thing. For the representative, Toppe, you know very well what the strawman argument is: it's when you don't get the enemy you want. Then you make one of the straws. Kjersti Toppe has done so in this matter, not only in this debate, but in all the years to which she refers. For Kjersti Toppe, it depends on forming a picture that neither I nor the government take the situation in Norwegian maternity care seriously, in order to have something to argue for. It's because it's the only way she can defend that she's promoting a bunch of representative proposals that everybody's taking up proposals that the government's already working on, or that's already solved. It will show everyone in the world that this is a meaningless activity if you can't form a strawman image of an opponent who doesn't care about this matter. I was now through, year after year, all the measures that are in progress. The government must have an impressive efficiency if we, for example, would have been able to double the number of midwives in the municipalities in half a year. It falls on its own unreasonableness. The representative has asked questions about this topic over and over again and received good answers. She obviously does not read the answer, obviously she does not hear after when others speak, obviously she does not read the documents delivered to Stortinget. Then she has only one reason for it: she is totally dependent on living by her strawberry argumentation. If she had sat into the matter, the strawman would have fallen apart, and she had had no arguments.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e3886	A post that the Council of State made now, I have never heard from any Council of State before. It is clear that the State Council of Höie has problems in this matter. If the council had not had problems, he would not have used such words and expressions. To come here and tell you that the representative Kjersti Toppe works with straw-man arts and has been running it all year round, not taking the situation in the field of birth seriously and performers to say that the representative comes with ‘a bunch of representational proposals’ – I do not know what parliamentary vocabulary is, but here there were several statements from the Council of State that are far from what I consider to be parliamentary vocabulary, at least from a Council of State. He says here that the representative Toppe does not read documents. It may be that the representative Toppe reads documents so well that the Council of State, Höie, with the accompanying offices, has problems in being able to argue. That's the nucleus. I just want to say that this post was so clear from a press council that I have never experienced it before – a government council that is now pressured by a gangster guerrilla with nearly 100,000 followers, a gangster guerrilla who has had a riot so strong that the prime minister had to put matters on hold for not provoking and thus losing even more votes. And then here we are experiencing a government council going to such an innocuous frontal attack on the representative Toppe. It's unworthy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e3901	The representative Lundtägen and the representative Toppe have obviously gone on the same course and is doing exactly the same kind of argument. I register that, and that is simply proof that there is a lack of arguments in this case. It is clear that if you go through and look at what has been done in this area, the concerns have been followed up. We have taken action. The Top Representative is dependent on trying to create another image. The representative, Lundtigen, is dependent on trying to create a picture of me being a pressed state councillor, and that's why I'm giving notice. No, I'm not under pressure in this area. It is time for someone to give a message when someone experiences what is happening repeatedly from the centre party, not only in this case, but also in many other cases. You draw an enemy image, which one argues against. It also sees you in the discussion about hospital structure. We are about to enter into a debate in which the Central Party here in Stortinget has promoted a proposal for a representative, contrary to the opinion of the Central Party itself in Helgeland. When I meet the rapporteurs of the Central Party at Helgeland, they ask us to lay down three hospitals and establish a large hospital. But the Central Party creates a national impression that this is government policy, and that it's government initiative. No, it's the Central Party on Helgeland that's going in the driveway to lay down the hospitals in Lake Sandes, in Lake Mos and in Rana and establish a large emergency hospital. I have ordered the Helgelands Hospital and Health Nord to investigate two further hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e3910	Those who follow this debate can assess whether or not we are facing a pressured Council of State. When a government council uses expressions that have fallen in the last two posts, it's the best proof that we have a government council that's so pressured and so stressed over so long, that he finally can't hold it all back. It is quite correct that the representative Toppe and I are on the same course – it should just be missing! We are on a real course, which requires that there should be equivalent specialist health services across the country – equivalent! There has been such a strong centralization, and there is still such a strong centralization, that many feel anxiety and insecurity for some of the most important things can come to mind, namely situations where life and health are at stake. Then we have a government council and a government that systematically goes ahead and proposes that there should be greater distances between the security services that the population should have – the security services that are necessary to ensure that a person is settled with young people around the whole country. State councils are usually aware that there is no smoke without fire. One does not have these protests without a factual, professional basis. If there had not been a factual, professional basis from professionals, interested and relatives, there would not have been a discussion about this. The Council of State can only try to explain it – it is in the disfavor of the Council of State. With regard to the rapporteurs on Helgeland, I can report to the Council of State that many of them feel so tired of such a strong fight over so many years that they finally start discussing solutions that are not the solutions they really want. I just want to end by saying that what we have now experienced is a government council that is so pressured by the representative Kjersti Toppe that I have never experienced anything similar in this room in the years I have been here.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e3927	No, I can reassure the representatives Toppe and Lundtegen that I am in no way under pressure. But I think it's an interesting discussion, because what you see, is that the center party is not able to break away from the reality they're trying to construct. It is not that we have been through a centralisation of hospital services in Norway — on the contrary. Much of the centralisation that took place when the county councils were driving the hospitals has stopped. The centralization that was continued by the government of which the Central Party was part has stopped. Our government has presented a national health and hospital plan that highlights the importance of the smaller hospitals, that they will have more to do, and that they are part of the solution in the future. But that truth doesn't fit into the Central Party image, so that's why Lundtegen continues with what Toppe has also been doing all day, and to the extent that in recent years: a strawman argumentation against a policy that they themselves construct as their opponent. It's not about being pressured as a government council; it's just proof that a person uses exactly the same argumentation technique in dealing with what's actually real: that this government has just stressed the importance of building a strong, decentralised birth care, not least in the municipalities, because there's a lot of security being created. That's why we've been getting a close doubling of the number of midwiferies in the municipalities in the last six years. That is also why we are so clear that we should keep the smaller hospitals and develop them further. I hope that the rapporteurs from the Central Party of Helgeland heard what Lundtigen said: they argue for a solution for which they are not really in favour. Well, I've met these Central Party rapporteurs in Helgeland, both those who were elected in the previous period, and those who are re-elected and newly elected in this period, and that wasn't my impression. My impression was that these Central Party rapporteurs actually meant what they said, and they worked for it. I have full respect for that, but as I said here in this Chamber, and it is serious that they do not experience the same respect from their own party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e3938	The representative Per Olaf Lundteg has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e3943	State Council Höie presented its national health and hospital plan to apply from 2016 to 2019, where one of the major points was what should be the population base for a fully-fledged local hospital. The need for 60 000–80 000 inhabitants was outlined. The plan was met with massive resistance. I remember very well the councillor, Höie, who was in the 18th debate on the future of Tynset Hospital. Luckily, there were some central Right-people on Tynset who had pushed the Council of State so strongly that in that debate, the Council of State withdrew its senses when it came to the closure of the Tynset Hospital, and this led to the rescue of the hospitals in the Church and Hammerfest. The state council here is involved in history writing, people will be able to learn from what has happened. Government centralizes, centralizes, and decentralizes. And we're going to keep doing that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e3949	The representative Kjersti Top has the word twice before and gets the word to a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e3954	In order to withdraw this debate to what he is about, our proposal to get a NOU on Norwegian maternity care, maternity care and maternity care in one health care: the proposal was made on 14 May in spring. After that time, I have said yes, and the government has come up with several measures, including: by saying that they should identify this non-existent follow-up service, a group should be set up to look at funding, organisation and staffing. This shows that our proposal was actually quite necessary. That's what kind of troubles me right now. Yes, I'm making a lot of suggestions, but they're very necessary. And the fact that there have been so many changes since we put forward our proposal on this in May shows that my ‘strawman argumentation’ was very in place, and it has actually led to something out in the health service even if one is voted down today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e3961	The representative Toppe's argument for a NOU or to make birth care better has nothing to do with strawberry argumentation. I see that as a real commitment. What's the strawman argument is when one tries to describe that me and the government and the government parties don't want the same thing, that we don't listen, that we don't care, and that it's Kjersti Toppe's commitment here that leads to change, and that we others don't get this with us. It's a strawman's argument. But that the representative's proposal and commitment are real, I believe that. The representative, Lundtigen, is an expert at writing history forgery. His description of the national health and hospital plan and work on it have no roots in reality. On the contrary, some of the findings of the work and the extensive consultation rounds that we had on the National Health and Hospital Plan before it was submitted to the Stortingen showed exactly what I said in my post. Not least developments in the number of elderly people in the areas where the small hospitals are located showed us clearly that the small hospitals are part of the solution in the future and not a problem, as has been done by many of my predecessors. So one in the definition of what's a big emergency hospital. A large emergency hospital must have a population base of about 70,000 people. But luckily in Norway we have the opportunity to have emergency hospitals that are smaller than that, and that is absolutely necessary, not least in Kirkenes and Hammerfest. In many of the hospitals that have been threatened by closure for years, where people have had to develop the torches at regular intervals, there is now complete peace: Narvik Hospital: There is a continuous discussion about whether there should be a hospital in Narvik. Now we are planning to build a new hospital in Narvik. Churches: There have been concerns for a long time. We just opened a new hospital. Hammerfest: We build a new hospital. Hospital in Lofoten and Vesterålen: There is no doubt that you will have a hospital there. Hospital in Flekkefjord: There is no doubt that you will have a hospital there. That's how I could still be around the whole coast in the area by area. It was not least when the Central Party put in government, that people had to light the torches at regular intervals. But now, fortunately, they can keep the torches in the closet.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e3988	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e4005	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: The allocated speaking time is limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the government. Moreover, within the allocated speaking time, up to five rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the Government, and those who have to sign up to 3 minutes on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e4014	It has been over four years since Health Nord approved to initiate a work involving a change in the hospital structure in Helgeland. The Helgelands Hospital comprises 17 municipalities in Helgeland and a population of 77 000. The company has a budget of 1.9 billion. NOK 1,400 employees and hospital in Mo in Rana and Lake Sandness with emergency and maternity care, and in the Sea without emergency surgery. They also have a specialist outpatient clinic with a feeding room in Brønnøysund. Continually, issues dealing with hospital structure are difficult because of combining quality, capacity and closeness to patients. In a country such as Norway — with a wide spread of housing, where all citizens are equally important and are to be given the fastest possible, but also the best possible, help — it is often a challenge to create something that everyone will perceive as optimal structures. So is Helgeland. While the central party representatives behind the proposal may have as their starting point that only a two-hospital structure is the best for the region, obviously very many Senter party members from the region themselves believe that a future one-hospital structure is the best. It just shows how difficult issues with hospital structure are, and not least that it's really an impossible task to do everybody's satisfaction. Almost no people I've met from Helgeland want to stop the process that is now in the final phase, to start new investigations. This case has a great commitment by a lot of people from Helgeland. The members of the Committee have individually received a large number of requests from both politicians and people most in Helgeland, both in relation to this particular proposal, and what should be emphasised before final decisions are taken on the future hospital structure for Helgeland. I would like to thank everyone who spends time and energy giving us their personal opinion. I would also like to thank the members of the Committee for their good cooperation in the matter and for the commitment of the members of the Committee to the people of Helgeland. The Committee refers to the assessment of the proposal by the Council of State, where the Council of State is clear that the national health and hospital plan is based on the fact that there is room for action as regards the content of an emergency hospital. It will be essential to take account of local conditions, the needs of patients and the ability to maintain quality and patient safety. I expect that the opposition parties will tell about their own starting points in the case, but for the government parties it is important that even if we do not lean on one or more specific reports, it is important that all investigations that have been made, regardless of who they are commissioned to do so, are included and assessed before a final decision is taken. We have noted the criticism of many rapporteurs in the region who say that they have been too little included in the process, and we see that the same criticism has been used in other regions in the past. That is unfortunate, and we are therefore pleased that the government in the new national health and hospital plan has taken action to correct it. Interaction and local anchoring is a key concept for finding solutions that can last over time. As far as this very representative proposal is concerned, the process that is now in the final phase has been going on for many years, and the majority is not able to see how to serve the people of Helgeland to extend the process even more. The majority of the Committee, consisting of all parties other than the Centre Party and the Labour Party, will therefore not adopt the draft representative. Last Wednesday, the Managing Director of the Helgelands Hospital presented his recommendation on the future hospital structure for Helgeland. In two days' time, the board of directors of the Helgeland Hospital will deal with the matter, and then the county council in Nordland will come up with its opinion. The Board of Health Nord deals with the case on 18 December, and the final decision of the Council of State is expected over the New Year. For the Progress Party, both hospital policy and hospital structure are important. We will follow the case on the future hospital structure for Helgeland closely, and we will focus on the feedback we have both received and will receive before the final decision is taken. Our health fraction will travel up to Helgeland next week to get even more recordings and to look at the locations in question. When the people of Helgeland now ask for a decision, we will listen to it, and then the proposal of the minority is not something we can consider to be in favour of. The most important thing for us is to find the most optimal solution for the inhabitants of Helgeland both in the short and long term. The solution to be decided must be qualitatively good and must also be acceptable to all citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e4042	‘If you have to choose country, you know it’s Helgeland’, it’s a stanza in a song – from a trouser. I'm not going to make Helgeland a Trondelag, but it's worth reflecting on where on the map of Helgeland. The nearest university hospital is St. Olav's hospital, but they belong to a regional health company, which is Health Nord, and their university hospital is the university hospital in Tromsø. Nearest major emergency hospital is located in Bodø. So the sanctuaries are used to going out of the region to get specialized treatment when they need it. And that's the whole starting point for the process that's now going on. The process of new hospital structure in Helgeland must primarily ensure a forward-looking specialist health service for the population of Helgeland. With a relatively short distance from Health Mid-Norway, this is clearly a dilemma for the Minister of Health – who owns the enterprises – and for the task of the company to explore the structure of the future. What we in the Labour Party are absolutely convinced of is that the specialist health service in Helgeland must be employed with care and wisdom. For example, geography and weather conditions require: that the prehospital services, such as ambulance boats and cars, must have sufficient capacity for the population to feel safe wherever you live in Helgeland. There must be access to competent and specialised health professionals, even outside the major emergency hospitals. The population of Helgeland is as it is. These are the prerequisites for further work. Emergency services in hospitals require 24-hour continuous preparedness within several specialities and must be part of the offer in all hospitals intended to treat emergency patients. The process at the Helgelandssykehuset has progressed well in the Committee's consideration of this proposal for a representative. However, from the Labour Party, we choose to maintain our proposals and also record that the Council of State, in one of its interventions in the previous case, underlined the need to investigate more than one emergency hospital. The management of the Helgelands Hospital has recommended a solution with one large and one smaller emergency hospital. Although we are doing away with voting here today, the process is going to continue, and we in the Workers' Party are going to follow it closely. I don't think the sanctuaries want to be trodden, but it's the government's condemned duty to provide an equivalent offer to all the inhabitants, and in some border regions between the regional health companies, which have the responsibility to care for, it's more demanding than in others. Helgeland is such an example. That's why it's very important for us to say that we believe there must be a specialist health service present at the premises of the Helgelands Hospital today, while at the same time you need to invest and gather the specialist service that needs to be in and around accepting emergency patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e4055	Will the representative address the proposal of which the Labour Party is part?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e4060	Yes, I'm addressing the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e4065	The representative, Mr Kjerkol, then drew up the proposal from the Labour Party and the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e4070	Now we are soon in the final phase of investigations into how the health supply for the population is to be solved for the future for the whole of Helgeland. In this proposal for a representative, the Centre Party is trying to bring forward a wish to postpone the investigation further by drawing up a new option for investigation. It is already clear that it should not be investigated. Is this enough an attempt from the Center Party not to address difficult questions? Now I expect the Center Party to relate to the reality out there in our beautiful district Norway, where we work and live. If there's something we need on Helgeland, then it's the end of the postponement -- let's get a clarification on this issue with the progress plan that's now known. In the current process, work is being done to arrive at a conclusion on how the whole of Helgeland should get the best possible healthcare provision – an area that covers almost 80,000 inhabitants, and where it is close to 300 km from north to south. The interesting thing now is that in Helgeland, 12 of 17 rapporteurs have been aware that they want one hospital located south of Korg Mountain – or, if there are two different hospitals, the largest hospital is located south of Korg Mountain. The interesting thing is that of the 12 rapporteurs, 8 are from the Central Party. If the representative Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum and his co-representatives have listened to their own rapporteurs, they know that there is a desire here for a hospital, which the representative likes to call for centralisation. I would like to recommend the representative, Mr Schlagsvold Vedum and his friends here, rather to listen to the rapporteur, Mr Wefsn, Berit Hundåla, of the Central Party, who said: A hospital south of Korgfjellet is a good district policy. Continue to travel to Helgeland, and listen to us who live there, but start by answering how the Center Party sees ourselves as capable of providing a good health offer to the whole of Helgeland within the terms of the mandate that is now in the investigation. Let's not get a new round of postponements of this question, which has been there since 1997.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e4081	In 2013, the board of directors of the Helgeland Hospital decided to launch an outsourcing of a new hospital structure at Helgeland. In the mandate of Health Nord RHF, it is stated that three alternatives to hospital structures in the region – all of them. 1: the zero option, everything. 2: one major emergency hospital with up to three district medical centers and everything. 3: one major emergency hospital in combination with one emergency hospital and up to two district medical centres. Today, together with the Labour Party, the Centre Party proposes to extend the mandate of the Helgeland Hospital to include the provision of a hospital structure with two local hospitals with full emergency functions and up to two district medical centres. Sickhouses must have at least daily standby prior to emergency medicine, emergency surgery, anaesthesia and access to radiology and laboratory services in addition to a maternity ward. Those who listened, supported the proposal for a representative. The midwife's report states that Helgeland has the largest boat-dependent island population in Norway. They think that the long travel distances can lead to a significant risk to the unborn and acute patients and make it necessary to prioritize good decentralised services at Helgeland. The midwife supports the proposal to expel two full-time local hospitals in Helgeland. The director of the hospital has now made his recommendation on future hospital structure, with two hospital models: one large emergency hospital and one emergency hospital. I just notice that the hospital is not going to have emergency surgery, but emergency care – I'm not going to tell you more about it right now. The point is that Helgeland today has the fourth longest travel distance to hospital in the country, even with its three existing hospitals. That's one of the reasons why the Center Party is making this proposal today. The principle underpinning the mandate of the health care provider is a limit such as: The Minister of Health himself launched in his previous national health and hospital plan, with a population limit of about 10 %. 60,000 to maintain emergency surgery, which is the difference between a major emergency hospital and an emergency hospital. Despite the fact that the large majority of Norwegian hospitals with a recording area of less than 60,000 inhabitants today offer emergency surgery, and despite the fact that the Stortinget has taken a decision that means that this limit has not had any consequences for the hospital structure in all parts of the country, this will now have consequences for Helgeland. It really doesn't make sense to me and the Center Party. There is no room at home for more stringent acute surgery limits in this area and for one to refuse to dispose of two fully-fledged local hospitals. That is what we are asking for, and that is a good professional argument for it. So I know that after me in the debate, I'm sure someone who's already brought up the Center Party thinks locally. I know at least that there is a part that requires this option. It has not been found. One has not been able to support it because it has not been part of the mandate. So it is that in its 2019–2023 election program on hospital structure, the Nordland Centerparti has made choices on this: ‘Future hospital structure in Helgeland must seek to deliver the best possible offer with the patient in focus. A crucial point is then travel time and acute transport time for patients. The centre party wants to bet on two full hospitals in Helgeland.’ Further: ‘Feeding women also need the shortest possible way to provide food. If it is chosen to build a large hospital, it is important that it is located so that the main focus is given to all patients in Helgeland. Nordland Centerpartie believes it is important that the process around the selection of hospital structure in Helgeland must be orderly, open and inclusive,...» I guess there's a few other parties that have such a clear relationship to this. We have a lot of understanding that there are different views in the municipalities, but at least here we've followed up on what's wanted, i.e. an explanation of this option.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e4108	In the election campaign, I traveled all over Helgeland to talk about what took our people there. Not surprisingly, hospitals were the theme that most people wanted to talk about. We who live in what people in this town call Utkant-Norway, have through generations learned that the proximity to health services saves lives. I believe that local emergency preparedness in interaction with good ambulance service is the most important thing we do, to have a good hospital offer throughout the country. When I was about to give birth to my second child in a local hospital on an island far out in the sea, I was glad that it was going to happen in the spring and not in the midwinter, with storms and storms. Since my first birth had ended with urgency, I was selected, so that I could not have food at my local hospital, but would travel to Bodø and feed there. When the day was there – I knew that I had to leave the farm – the ladies on the food at Gravdal tried to get hold of an ambulance plane. It was in Alta, and we were told that it could be at Leknes' at noon. 10th@item: inlistbox But my little son had it more busy than that, and when his heart activity began to slow down, this birth had to end with an urgent Caesarean section, and at 0 p.m. 09.30 Albert was born, with what the midwives considered to be the shortest umbilical cord they had ever seen. I dare not think about what had happened if we had not had an emergency response at Gravdal. This is my simple experience, and it's probably an experience that very many nurturing women all over the country have. With regard to this particular matter, SV has great sympathy with the proposal of the Centre Party. This is an option that has not been investigated in the past, but the proposal is legally late in the process. There are not many days until the board is due to present its decision, and the hospital director Hulda Gunnlaugsdóttir has already submitted his decision. Then I have to say that when the big group was going to say yes or no to this proposal, we also had to listen to our local teams on Helgeland, and their recommendation was clear: they would not have any more postponements in this matter. But what SV will propose, and will clarify in this matter, is the importance of a comprehensive plan for the prehospital services in the various options outlined for structure and location. And the content of the district medical centres, in particular in maternity care, must be defined and should be covered by the decision in the undertaking. That is why we have a proposal in this case, which I am referring to here.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e4123	The representative of Mona Fagerås has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e4129	As we see it, the issue we have for treatment is one of the most complex in the wake of the National Health and Hospital Plan, adopted in the previous period. It concerns the future hospital structure in Helgeland, a significant geographical area of the country. The decision will require much of us as politicians, not least in anchoring the decision as far as possible and getting as close as possible to an agreed solution as possible. What is the driver in this case? Indeed, distances, topography, housing patterns, population size, transport issues, trends in regional development, recruitment to health services, and thus patient safety and quality — are all aspects of safety. It is therefore not at all strange that there has been – and is – a significant public involvement in this matter. Health Nord has argued that there is no population basis for two equivalent emergency hospitals to those offered by modern hospitals, and it must weigh heavily in this case. It also needs the advice that comes from 14 out of 18 local councillors in this area. These recommend a large hospital, and then south of the Korg Mountain. In that decision-making process we are now in a professional round. The administration of the Helgelandssykehuset has submitted its recommendation. Now the board shall decide on it before Health Nord makes its recommendation. The Minister of Health and Welfare shall then take a decision on the matter. The higher we get in the decision-making chain, the broader the basis for the decision to be presented to the Stortinget through a draft budget. The left considers the available options to be a sufficiently professional basis for making a decision and for meeting the further process. So to the word ‘quality’, which does not rarely mean the need for professional concentration. It is therefore interesting to note that a significant number of Central Party rapporteurs in Helgeland are in favour of a system that differs from that of the Central Party in Oslo-Gryta – as the jargon goes – recommends. So it's an interesting task for the government parties to act as mercenaries between the Central Party on the Stortinget and the Central Party on the Helgeland. I understand that the Central Party has a decision-making refusal in this matter and is promoting this postponement proposal, which fortunately is being voted down today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e4142	When we talk to people in Lake Sandness, we hear that if the hospital goes, there's a lot else that goes into the domino effect. It means a lot of empty houses on the islands, and it will make life very heavy for many, because this doesn't just apply to the hospital. The Teingrecht on Alstahaug is proposed to be closed, the traffic station in Sandnessjøen is proposed to be closed, the Nord universitet is laying down study places, such as the school at Nesna and the nursing training in Sandnessjøen. People have had enough. It is important that large parts of the weekend region do not receive poorer health services on the basis of poor mandates. Helgeland is a region with long distances, challenging weather conditions and a large number of inhabitants living on islands. Regions such as Helgeland require solutions adapted to them. Red is going to vote for both minority proposals. The process and mandate have caused great frustration. There has been both a lack of transparency and a lack of ability to influence the process. We have a great deal of understanding that the people of Helgeland are very sorry. The director has now submitted a proposal for a large emergency hospital on Mo, a small one in Lake Sandness and DMS in the Mosjøen and Brønnøysund. She also writes in the proposal that the small hospital should have emergency surgeons and maternity ward, but at the same time that it should be based on planned treatment. That means that the Sandness Lake can lose the trauma reception. This, of course, reacts to the twelve municipalities and health professionals in the hospitals in Lake Mosjön and Sandnessjön. There is a legitimate and real concern that the Sandness Lake hospital will not be a hospital in the future. They believe it means that in a few years there will only be a large emergency hospital at Mo, and the rest will be DMS. A hospital isn't a hospital just because it's on the sign. That's the content that decides. If you had investigated two full hospitals, you could look at a solution where the hospitals in Helgeland could still have their specializations with full emergency functions in both places. The Health Enterprise Model organises and operates the public, tax-funded specialist health service of Norway on the basis of market-economy principles. Hospitals are managed more according to the bottom line and less according to patients’ needs. The thinking of the health business model is: Help them beyond where they are, because it is cheaper. Red will have living districts where people can live and work. It is time to reverse the development of centralisation and depopulation in the districts. That is why we stand up for the employees and the health services of the population – not only in Helgeland but also in the East, in More and Romesdal and throughout Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e4159	Helgeland is long-haul and consists of both coasts, island communities, fjords and mountain areas — in many ways a miniature Norway. It's an amazing part of our country, where not one has at least succeeded with what one has not succeeded in many other places – maintaining a sustainable settlement, even on the islands. The population therefore lives widely, there are long distances, and there are sometimes difficult transport conditions in many places. Therefore, investigations into what is the best hospital structure in the area are challenging in balancing the quality, distance, climate and population composition considerations. That means there won't be one solution for Helgeland that's optimal. All of the solutions will have both positive and negative sides. The process around the hospital structure in Helgeland has been going on for many years, and in the context of the Helgelands Hospital's own development plan towards 2025, Health Nord was approved at the Enterprise Meeting on 17 November 2015 to initiate work to adapt the hospital structure in Helgeland to medical and medical developments and, in particular, to the needs of patients. In addition to the 0 option, the Health Nord Helgelands Hospital asked to investigate two alternatives: option 2a, a large emergency hospital with up to three district medical centres, and option 2b, a large emergency hospital in combination with one emergency hospital and up to two district medical centres. The term ‘major emergency hospital’ is used for hospitals with a mission range of more than 60000 to 80000 inhabitants with a wide range of emergency services with emergency surgery and several medical specialities. The population limit of 60000-80000 inhabitants has been set to ensure an adequate patient volume for emergency services, especially in surgery, but also for other specialities. However, local conditions sometimes require the establishment of a large emergency hospital on a slightly smaller population basis. Acute hospitals shall have – and that is the next term – an acute function in internal medicine, anaesthetics in the 24-hour period, planned surgery, preparedness for surgical evaluation and stabilisation and management of acute events. Emergency hospital shall have trauma preparedness and a general emergency surgical offer when housing patterns, distance between hospitals, car, boat and air ambulance services and weather conditions make this necessary. National health and hospital plan states that any change in hospital provision should not weaken the overall supply of food. On 20 November, the Executive Director presented his recommendation for the hospital structure for the board of the Helgelands Hospital. The matter shall be dealt with in the Management Board of the Helgeland Hospital on 28 November and in the Board of Health on 18 December. The matter should finally be decided by me after the new year. Now changing the mandate and resuming the investigation will extend this process unnecessarily and have very unfortunate consequences for the people of Helgeland, who still have to live in uncertainty about what will be the future hospital offer. The concept of ‘complete emergency function’ is unexplained and misleading. The national health and hospital plan assumes that there is an action room in relation to the contents of an emergency hospital. It will be essential to take account of local conditions, the needs of patients and the ability to maintain quality and patient safety. There are now several acute-disease models that function well on the basis of local assumptions. Acute hospitals may have both emergency surgery and maternity services if this is necessary to meet the needs of the population. The people of Helgeland deserve a decision on the future hospital structure. Further investigations will not be in the public interest. That is why I am pleased that it does not look as if the Central Party and the Labour Party proposals are getting a majority today. The consequence of that would be to have to stop the process. Neither the board of the Helgeland Hospital nor the board of Health Nord could have dealt with the matter, one had to investigate again. I don't think it's necessary. The studies available provide a sufficient basis for drawing conclusions and also for looking at possible different combinations of the models examined. I think Helgeland wants a decision to be made on this matter now, and I'm glad that it looks as if the Storting doesn't stick screws in the wheels for it. In the case of SV's proposals, there are considerations taken into account in the further investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e4174	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e4179	The Helgelands Hospital has made its recommendation on a major emergency hospital all north of the region and a smaller one located in Lake Sandness. There are many who have different wishes and priorities in this process. That's the way it'll be in a long-term geography with a lot of municipalities. My question to the Council of State is whether he understands the concerns of those who are afraid to add up to two different emergency hospitals – a larger whole north of the region and to continue it by Lake Sandness with less emergency functions, if it is possible to say so – will make it possible to build up the large emergency hospital in the whole north of the region and allow the other to live a little longer.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e4186	Yes, I understand that people are concerned about it, and I see that it's an essential part of the debate. No matter what model you finally land on, I believe this will be a decision taken by me in a business meeting. This means that when a person attends a business meeting, for example: decides that a hospital should be an emergency hospital, one would be able to do nothing but have it as an emergency hospital without any possible resumption by the minister of health. This means that it will not be possible for a health business to – as it is described – deplete offers, create a DMS and make offers on its own. A political decision would have to be made if you were to say that an emergency hospital would no longer be an emergency hospital. I understand the concern, but when we make a decision, I believe it should apply. If necessary, there must be a political decision to change it. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e4195	We see that the recommendation from the management of the Helgelands Hospital gives some clear premise for what is about pre-hospital services. Both the Council of State and I know that the mission volume of our car and boat ambulances is rising, and that it is a challenge in itself with today's hospital budgets. I see that the management of the company makes a clear premise that this has to be invested more heavily than today, and that you have to have enough capacity. But I want to ask the Council of State for something else. When a parallel structural debate on places of study was held at Nord University, the brakes were put on in the process, the government's government council in charge of higher education intervened and asked for a meeting with the board, and even the prime minister said that this structural process, which is about offering higher education to health professionals, looks at the fact that those places of study have been laid down? [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e4202	I think I have to ask for understanding that I cannot answer for what has been done at North University and in this area for which I am not responsible. Fortunately, hospitals are governed differently from the university and higher education sectors. As far as hospitals are concerned, there is nothing other than the political decision of the Minister of Health on these kinds of issues, for this is about matters that are so crucial to the development of the community and health care. As for the status of the hospital, and the structure of the hospital, there is something that finally ends on my table.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e4209	The government is responsible. There's government councillor Bent Höie one of several colleagues. One of the clear premises for this process is that there is sufficient competent health professionals. The fact that the government is taking action in other sectors that affect it, we must assume that the government takes joint responsibility for it. While we have been discussing matters in the Chamber today, the Riksrevision has presented a report that shows that the lack of nurses in Norwegian hospitals – the hospitals the Council of State Bent Höie is responsible for – is precarious. Is it not important that the government sees these issues in context, especially when making investments for the future, as is now the case in Helgeland?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e4216	Well, that's why there's clear leadership, among other things. in the national health and hospital plan submitted on Friday, that we should ensure that there is sufficient competence in our hospitals in the future. Therefore, the government of the State budget for 2020 has not least been committed to strengthening nursing training. That is why, together with the Minister of Higher Education and Research, I have added a stepping-up to lead to more specialised nurses. With regard to the different universities and the selection of the structure of education, the representative knows just as well as I do that the higher education sector has a more independent role in such issues than that. hospitals have. It is also very important that they cooperate well locally. But I understand that the representative is asking about this and not about the proposal that the Labour Party will be voting for today, which will mean a postponement of this whole resolution, which I think can be very poorly received. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e4223	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e4229	The central party does not get a majority in favour of its proposal, but we achieve a large majority, namely that the Labour Party joins our proposal. People south of the Korg Mountain will notice that. We get the Workers' Party into an investigation of two local hospitals with full emergency functions – and with a precise definition, in line with the Medical Association: daily preparedness, emergency medicine, emergency surgery, anaesthesia, x-ray, laboratory and maternity ward. More precisely, it cannot be said. There is a common platform for further work. Hospital preparedness is the safety of adequate emergency treatment. The prehospital services are often in doubt about the diagnosis of the seriously ill. If we get into a situation where you don't have an emergency room in the nearest hospital, they should pass if you're in doubt about the situation, and that happens often. Does the Council agree with this professional reality when the hospital does not have fully-fledged emergency functions – i.e. one must drive past the Sandness Lake and to Mo, when the Sandness Lake is not fully-fledged?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e4238	I really hope that the people of the whole Helgeland will remember the proposal of the Centre Party, and not least that the Workers' Party supports it today. I think it is something that, if it had been given a majority, would really have been poorly received in the whole of Helgeland: that the Stortinget had now intervened in this decision-making process and said that one should stop and start with investigations again, and that one should not have finally been clarified. The representative himself was in the pulpit and spoke of the fact that the rapporteurs of the Central Party had been exhausted by this, and the Central Party's answer to that is to make them even more exhausted by extending this process. No, equivalent hospitals are a very unpresisive definition to which it would be completely impossible to relate, because one can be equivalent all the way down to a minimum of offers, and then there is really the balance between the two hospitals that become the most important, not the contents of hospitals. For patients, the content is essential and, fortunately, Helgeland will have to have the same offer as the rest of the population and relate to the national health and hospital plan. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e4245	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e4250	Helgeland is far, and people live up to the mountain and out on the naked island, in a sometimes fairly hostile weather. This means that the prehospital services and the DMS have a particularly important role to play in ensuring good services for citizens, including in districts. SV believes that in many ways it would make sense to start looking at the nature of the content of DMS and the structure of prehospital services, taking into account birth and childbirth, remote diagnostics and follow-up services. As a result, it may also become more clear which alternatives should be chosen to provide good health care to the inhabitants of Helgeland. What will the Minister do to ensure that a comprehensive plan is in place for the prehospital services? And what does the Minister think should be a minimum content for the district medical centres?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e4257	Firstly, I would like to say that I very much agree with the SV's argument not to vote for the Central Party and the Labour Party's proposal. With regard to the SV's proposal today, I believe that the content of it makes sense, but it is also well taken care of through the way I see that the investigation work has both taken place and should not least be carried out further in the Helgelands Hospital. I see that there is a premise for all alternatives that one also needs to clarify more clearly what the prehospital services should be, as a result of the structure on which it ends. No matter which of these options becomes the final conclusion, I agree with SV that it will have consequences for the prehospital services. That must be taken care of, and I will, of course, take care of it in the further work. So the SV's proposal is good, and therefore it is not necessary to vote for it in the Stortinget today – I will take care of that anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e4264	Replicate cord shift complete. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e4271	The central part of the centre has concluded that the best for Helgeland is two full hospitals. The centre party locally has concluded that one joint hospital, central to Helgeland, south of Korgberget, is the best. The central and local parties do not agree. Once again, we have a proposal for a representative where the representatives of the Central Party believe that they know better than the locals. But they don't know better than the locals in this case, the Center Party also knows better than the Norwegian Medical Association. They also know better than the Faculty of Health, Institute of Clinical Medicine at the Arctic University of Norway. The Centre Party even knows better than UNN, the University Hospital of North Norway, both the UNN leaders' leadership group and the UNN Emergency Medical Clinic. I thought the Center Party was a party that listened to the districts, but in this case they have clearly shown what they mean: you don't know what you're talking about. The main resistance to two hospitals in Helgeland comes from the professionals, those who are actually going to work there. We have approx. 80,000 potential patients in Helgeland, and that's all we are. In addition, the whole of North Norway wears. Health North in total does not have a greater population base than Rogaland County and depends on every patient and every employee. The University Hospital of North Norway is dependent on good professional quality throughout the region, so patients do not seek refuge. So today, the National Audit Office presented a report that concludes that health businesses face major manpower challenges. We can't agree to make things worse for North Norway and for Helgeland. The report also shows that these challenges affect how employees themselves experience the quality of patient treatment. By building a common hospital centrally in Helgeland, everyone will get a good and equivalent offer. Patients get better by collecting all the functions under one roof. Recruitment is becoming simpler to a larger common trade union environment. People in Helgeland deserve a hospital offer as well as the rest of the country. Now we finally have the opportunity to realize one common hospital, one hospital that can develop and handle more than what today's three hospitals do. Finally, I would encourage everyone in this Chamber when we come to the vote on Thursday to vote against the proposal of the minority – simply because Helgeland deserves it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e4290	First of all, I need to clarify some important details that put the argument from Ebbessen's representative in perspective: Helgelands Hospital 2025 – now we have to remember the realities: The recommendation of the Resource Group was a major hospital at Mo in Rana. It is almost 3.5 to 4 hours from Brønnøysund and Sømna. The director's recommendation, now presented, is a large main hospital on Mo and a small one in Lake Sandness. No one from the Helgelands Hospital has proposed what the representative Ebbesen is calling for today, namely a large emergency hospital south of the Salt Mountain. There is absolutely no one from the Helgelands Hospital who has recommended. I also want to put what the representative, Sister, said, a little in perspective. The representative said that the central part of the centre has concluded that it is best with two hospitals. No, the Central Party has asked with this proposal to investigate two full hospitals. It is the Nordland Centerpartie who has clearly said in their programme that they want two full hospitals in Helgeland, and if there is to be only one, it should be central to Helgeland. The centre party in the Nordic region has been very clear, and once they've made their program, they've also seen the county as a whole. We see that we have two hospitals in the far north – in Harstad and in Narvik. We have two hospitals in the vicinity of each other – in Stokmarknes in the Vesterålen and in Gravdal in Lofoten. It's geography that's one of the elements of having this hospital body. The centre party was also criticized for being unclear and would postpone. No, we're not unclear. The Nordic Center Party has been very clear in its argument, and we don't want to postpone. Our main wish is to investigate two full hospitals, which the sanctuaries deserve.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e4303	If two full hospitals had been an alternative in the mandate presented by Health Nord three years ago, the debate would have been a completely different both in Helgeland and here in Stortinget. Time use could have been reduced, and the mood might have been better both here and there. That's what I'm saying, no matter what conclusion you wanted to make. However, with proper investigations and this option, it could be shown that it was professionally sound. It should be Health North and the Council of State taken responsibility for that time. Now we see, as several have mentioned, that the director recommends what might be perceived by outsiders as a quite straightforward two-sick house model, but which is the model that hardly anyone wants, either professionals or the vast majority of municipalities in Helgeland. The location of one hospital without real emergency functions and the birth department centrally in Helgeland is described as a case of a patient. However, if you need urgent assistance, you shall be transported to the northern edge of this large region. We know that there are major challenges with both air ambulance and helicopter regulation between coast and inland large parts of the winter half, and we know that it is terribly long to run for four to five hours if you are life-threateningly ill and injured, it is related to birth, trauma or other. What has been raised above any doubt is that there must be a fully-fledged, proper emergency hospital in Helgeland, i.e. south of the Korg Mountain, which we now know as a geographical concept, and not the Salt Mountain, on which Mossleth's representative was inside. No matter where the actual location will be in this area, we have to remember that the inhabitants of the far south of Helgeland will still have more than three hours of driving time. It must therefore be a hospital with proper emergency preparedness 24 hours a day and a proper maternity ward. And even if there were to be only one hospital here centrally, they would have the longest north of Helgeland, however, only two hours for the same hospital. We cannot witness such discrimination against the inhabitants of the region as past conclusions and the Director's recommendation make. Everyone in Helgeland needs access to hospitals, not just within the normal opening time of five days a week. Two full hospitals should have been part of the mandate and the investigation, so that it could be fully taken into consideration. As the representative Toppe pointed out, this is programmed in the Central Party counties in Northernland. But whatever solution is chosen, it is totally unacceptable not to have a proper emergency hospital centrally on Helgeland south of the Korg Mountain. Although it is mentioned that there is flexibility in the contents of a small hospital, we know from the long process and the content, and now from the director's recommendation that the small hospital should not have, for example. emergency surgery and parturition 24/7. We need that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e4316	The Progress Party has only one objective for the new hospital structure in Helgeland: to ensure the best possible patient treatment. That's also the only thing that matters. In the further process, therefore, we are committed to listening, and when I meet rapporteurs from the Central Party from Helgeland, they ask us not to listen to the Central Party. I have promised them not to do that, and it is a promise I intend to keep. When the centre party has locked itself firmly in the fact that the investigation of two hospitals is important, there seems to be no local agreement. On the contrary, there is local concern about the solution raised by the Central Party on the Stortinget. There is concern that the patient basis for setting up two emergency hospitals is too weak. There are professional reasons for concern. The pooling of emergency functions has proved to be incredibly important for the professional environments in Helgeland, precisely in order to ensure adequate quantity training, recruitment of professionals and quality of service. Many locals are concerned that the solution launched by the Center Party will lead to an eternal struggle between two hospitals that both over time will not be able to deliver good services. I also note that the representative Lundtigen believes that the rapporteurs of the Central Party are so pressured locally that they have now begun to discuss solutions they do not want. There is a claim from the Central Party that I intend to ask the Center Party locally about when to visit Helgeland next week. The new hospital structure process is now under way. On Thursday, the board of the Helgeland Hospital will discuss and discuss this matter. Then Health Nord shall make its assessments. We in the Progress Party will in future listen to professionals, to the inhabitants of Helgeland and even to the local people elected by the Center Party. They have been clear that they do not want an investigation of two fully qualified emergency hospitals. That's why the Progress Party is voting down the Central Party proposal, and at the same time we want to encourage the Centre Party to start listening to people locally, what they want to tell them.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e4336	It is true, as has been said, that two fully-fledged local hospitals, with the definition we have seen, should have been included as part of the mandate from the very beginning. That's what's the big mistake in this case. The national central party has not concluded with this proposal. Those who have stood here and said so should read the matter, they should read our proposal. We ask that this be done as part of the mandate. This will not lead to a major postponement, because it is now that the managing director has made a recommendation on two hospitals. The alignment goes on their contents, and there is nothing that requires a very large release. The point is that there's a mistrust on the Helgeland coast of such a model, they don't have any faith that a local hospital without emergency surgery will be resilient over time. They have experience with the lake. The National Health and Hospital Plan for 2015–2019 states that there were four hospitals in Norway without emergency surgery, i.e. there was a plan now. It was in the North Fjorddeid, it was in Lærdal, it was in the Lake of Mosque, and it was Lovisenberg Diakonale Hospital here in Oslo. I can understand that when you have a choice between this and one hospital, choose one hospital, because one has no faith in it, one has seen what has happened in the sea. And then this one is supposed to propose again. I am absolutely sure that the most important thing would be to get into the mandate that there was a proper two-sickness model that was an alternative. It's plus and minus with a two-surgeon model, and it's also plus and minus with a one-surgeon model, but what's now in the mandate, and that's suggested, with an emergency hospital without surgeons on guard, is not a viable model. That was probably a reason why the Stortinget, when we dealt with the National Health and Hospital Plan in 2015, went away from this model. No hospital had any changes in the fact that the government tried to get this to otherwise in the country. No hospitals lost acute surgical functions, not in Flekkefjord, not in Odda entrance, not in Stord, not in Narvik. But in Helgeland, they're going to have to experience this, because that's not what we were about in 2015. The midwife is in favour of a two-sickness model. The Medical Association has said something else, but what the Medical Association has also said is that they don't support a model where one has an emergency hospital without emergency surgery, because it's about having to have a wide range in a hospital if one is going to treat patients defensively.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e4349	I must thank the representative of Bøkestad Andreassen for stating that I meant to say a hospital south of Korgbergellet, not south of Salt Mountain. The representative of Bøkestad Andreassen is absolutely right. What I wanted to clarify was that the resource group's recommendation was a large hospital at Mo, and the director's recommendation is a large main hospital at Mo and a small one in Lake Sandness. No one has proposed what the representative of Ebbesen spoke about, namely a large emergency hospital south of Korgfjellet. And the recommendation now available, about two hospitals – one A hospital, a main hospital, in Rana and a small hospital in Lake Sandness – nobody wants to. It's a model with an A hospital and a B hospital, a patient trap, which is not a good idea. I would like to ask the Council of State Höie directly: Is the Council of State agreeing with the representative Ebbesen that if there were only one major hospital, it would be south of Korgberget?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e4358	It's okay to try, but of course I'm not going to say anything about what is now my assessment of what should be the structure of the Helgelands Hospital – I haven't drawn the conclusion. I will only do that after the administration of the Helgelands Hospital and the board of Health Nord has dealt with the matter. Their decisions will be part of my decision-making base. But that's said some things that I have to clarify. Firstly, the representative Mossleth says that no one has proposed a model with a large emergency hospital south of the Korg Mountain. That's wrong. That is part of what has been investigated, and not least there are very many of Mossleth's own rapporteurs. It is also wrong that no one wants the model that the director has now proposed. That is the model that several of the municipalities north of Helgeland wanted and that the director has proposed. The representative Mossleth also said that she would not delay, but she would investigate. Well, it's not possible to do the two things at the same time. The central party and the proposal of the Labour Party today would mean a postponement of this decision. There would only be one possibility for me if the Storting had decided this, and it was to have a corporate meeting in Health Nord and ask them to stop the process and start to investigate this option. And that would have been completely unnecessary, because I believe that in the investigation work that has been carried out, there is also a basis for decision-making to consider different combinations than the combinations described, simply because all of these different options are now described. There are also some descriptions of the administration of the Helgelands Hospital's proposals that are not correct. An emergency hospital in the Sandness Lake is described as a hospital without emergency surgery and food supply, but that is not what has been proposed by the administration of the Helgelands Hospital. It's an emergency hospital with emergency surgery and food supplies. It's also important to clarify. I understand that when the Stortinget in his vote, hopefully, does not vote for the Central Party and the Workers' Party's proposal, it does not mean that the Stortinget has said no to a two-sick house model. The size has said no to stop the process and start the investigation again, but a two-sick house model is still on the table as part of the solution, which can be assessed both by the board of the Helgelands Hospital, by the board of Health Nord and, of course, by me at the end.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e4371	It is not Stortinget that has the last words in matters like this, but Stortinget has an excellent opportunity to train and stop things like this. I consider that a decision in line with the Central Party and the Workers' Party today would be, as the Council of State says, a clear message that one had to stop the processes in the Helgelands Hospital because this decision was not followed up in the process. It is also not that a decision today would be decisive for the structure, but it would, as I said, focus on what would be the basis of the investigation towards the board meeting on Thursday. What is important now is that the case should go its way, that the process, which has been going on for a long time – in fact since 1997 – should continue. Already this week, this will be on the board of directors. It has been a long and difficult process, and we hear in the debate here that local representatives point to it. I agree with the representative of Mona Fagerås, who instead said that this proposal by the Central Party was legally late, because it does. I'm a little surprised that the Workers' Party supports it, but they probably have good reasons for it. We're probably putting a little different things into it than the Workers' Party, because I think, as I said, this would be a stop order to the Helgelands Hospital if it was adopted. It doesn't deserve the people of Helgeland. Neither does SV want more postponements, and it's great, because it would have been the reality. We must have respect for the management of the Helgelands Hospital, and we must have respect for the local politicians in Helgeland. I am quite surprised at the unison feedback I get from many rapporteurs, especially in the south of Northern Ireland. There is a clear disagreement between the rapporteurs and the central central bank policy. The question then is whether we should listen to local politicians and whether it is the case that big-scale politicians know more about Helgeland than the local politicians. The representative from Red was concerned with this with transparency – that there is no transparency around the decisions. Select - Meetings are open. Protocols opened. So it's not true that it's not openness. These are other organs, but there's openness around them. So the question is, what happens if this proposal falls now? Will the centre party then deal with the local rapporteurs, or will they continue as they do now and say that they know best? The representative, Lundtägen, pointed out that this was a partiality, that the Workers' Party supported them. I will not call a decision that will delay a new hospital in Helgeland, as one says – on the contrary. Fortunately, it is not adopted now, but I would like to remind you that the county council in Nordland already in 1997 decided that there should be one hospital in Helgeland. Now we write 2019, and we still haven't gotten there.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e4384	I thank you for a good debate on this matter, it deserves the people of Helgeland. One of the most spectacular here today is that market-economy principles, effort-driven financing, the DRG and health businesses have been incorporated into this debate. It really has nothing to do with the matter. It seems that some people think that these words can just be said as a mantra, so – simsalabim – all recruitment needs are lifted, so all the need for economically sound use of expensive equipment disappears, so all the need for controlled economic operations disappears, and so the vapors that dogged the sun all the inequality that will inevitably arise when limited resources are to be spread across a large geographical area. The representative Mossleth is trying to save his party's self-opposition in this matter, but she's actually making the image even more confusing by bringing in her party. If I heard correctly, the Central Party does not have just two points of view in this case – they have three points of view. And when I see that the representative Lundtigen has signed up, there might be a fourth. I have visited the hospital in Lake Sandness. I am impressed by the prehospital services that were shown me there, and I know that they are among the best in the country. I mention this especially since prehospital services have been mentioned several times in this debate. I'm not so worried about exhausted politicians. On the other hand, I am concerned about 420 employees at the Sandness Lake Hospital, who are known to be exposed at these times, and who require a decision now. I am also concerned about another element in this matter. It's about decentralised nursing education, which the Left has drawn up on a number of occasions, and which I hope can fall into place when we now get a hospital solution in this region.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e4397	The representative Siv Mossleth has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e4402	It's true, the councillor Höie says, that there are many people who have proposed a large hospital south of Korgberget, but with regard to who made the recommendations on behalf of the Helgelands Hospital, they have not submitted a recommendation on a large hospital south of Korgberget. But based on what was said in the meantime, we can conclude that the Council of State will not benefit the Ebbesen depositor from the Right, who called for a large emergency hospital south of Korgbergellet. This process has, as many have said, been very long, and it is arduous to stand in such a process for about 20 years, but I want to make it clear that it is time to investigate two full hospitals, for it would have been best for the people of Helgeland.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e4411	The case concerns preparedness. It concerns the safety of serious acute illness. It's about saving lives. There's a lot of distances. The distance Sømna–Mo in Rana is 260 km – almost four hours. It's an incredibly demanding geography, and it's one of the parts of the country that has the most scattered settlement. Thus, it is incredibly demanding to ensure hospital preparedness here, which provides security for proper emergency treatment. We have experience from other parts of the country that it is essential to combine emergency treatment at specialist health services with interaction with primary health services, the interaction. This allows you to make better use of resources when you don't have so much of an emergency. It is possible to organise healthcare by combining sound use of the economy with security in view of the urgency of the situation. We in the Center Party are said to be on two fully-fledged local hospitals in the case of emergency functions. That these hospitals will have some different content in terms of elective activities, yes, that's the way it is all over the country. It is said here from the representative of Ebbesen that there should be one hospital south of Korgfellet, and it is said from the representative of Sweetheart of the Progress Party that one should have a common hospital because Helgeland deserves it. I wonder if the two representatives have read the statement from the director of the hospital, because it is not south of the Korg mountain that is the main point. As the representative Toppe said, the discussion now revolves around the contents of these two hospitals. It's not a great job to define the content of this, so those who talk about deferrals, I mean speaking against better knowledge. What is a fact is that in many cases there is doubt about the diagnosis of acute, critical situations. Without a fully-fledged emergency facility, one in many cases would have to think of driving past the nearest hospital to the hospital that has the necessary emergency services, in a critical situation where time is worth gold. Otherwise, when reference is made to the discussion in Nordland in 1997 about a hospital, I can say to the representative of Stensland: In 2008 the discussion in West Viken was about having an emergency hospital instead of in Bærum, Drammen, Hønefoss and Kongsberg. It has been put to shame, it should also be done on Helgeland.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e4430	The representative Kjersti Top has the word twice before and gets the word to a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e4435	There are few or none in this debate who have taken up what is the very argument in our proposal, namely that there are and may be two fully-fledged emergency hospitals on the Helgeland coast, that the population limit on which it is based does not apply to other places in the country. I have not listened to anyone who argues against the professional. There are other things, like that's a postponement, etc., but the professional in our proposal is standing by. It's funny that the Stortinget, who fights for the acute surgery in Odda and Flekkefjord, is quite right that the Sandness Lake loses the acute surgery. So I notice that the council says that in the proposal of the managing director there is acute surgery in the lake of Sandness, but I have read the setting, and as I see it, it says emergency surgery, which means elective surgery, and emergency preparedness, which in turn means anesthetic guards, not surgeons.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e4444	This government has introduced a number of necessary changes and reforms. In this case, as in the previous, the Center Party shows its true face and perhaps the very reason that so little happened in the years they themselves put in power. I've had meetings with all the hospitals in Helgeland. I have had meetings with a number of the rapporteurs on Helgeland, some of whom have even come and visited us here in Stortinget. I've met trust-elects from most organizations in Helgeland. I've been to open membership meetings at Helgeland. I've really been out listening. The picture is much more complex than what this debate is all about. There are very few who agree with the central party's main position in this matter and, as I have said before, even the rapporteurs of the centre party do not agree with the views of the centre party on this matter. On the contrary, they begged us in a meeting we had this week, to land on a completely different conclusion. The most important thing is to ensure that the population has good access to the treatment of the best brand — that there is a good supply for birthers and that emergency care is provided when needed. When the representative Toppe points to professionalism, those who speak loudest about one hospital are just the professionals. Now it sounds like I've landed on the idea that I want a hospital in Helgeland. I haven't – I haven't landed at all. But what I'm sure is that the process in the Helgelands Hospital must go its own way. Health Nord must make its decisions. And then you get back to where this lands after all. But I repeat: the reality of the Central Party's decision, which is supported by the Workers' Party, will be that the board of the Helgelands Hospital cannot reach a decision on Thursday, and we cannot agree on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e4458	There have been some interesting points in this debate, from the fact that the representative Lundtigen was very concerned that the local representatives of the Central Party did not know what they were doing, or felt so pressured that they were working for a solution they were not really in favour of, that one has now taken the order that we might have four emergency hospitals in Helgeland that should be fully worth it, and refers to something that has happened in the Central East region. Let me remind the Central Party and the representative of Lundtegen that there are 77 000 people living in Helgeland. At least there is no room for four emergency hospitals if there are to be good professional quality at all of these. Then it was mentioned whether the government parties had read the cancellation from the director of the Helgelands Hospital. Of course, I can confirm that we have. But the decision has not been made. It was not taken into the board at the Helgeland Hospital, and it was at least not taken into Health North. So we're in a process, and it also has to start recognizing the Center Party soon. Then Kjersti Toppe starts to talk about the professional aspect of her own proposal, and then you can start to wonder what the professional aspect is. Because if you talk to the local trade unions in Helgeland, at least they strongly disagree with the proposal the Centre Party has launched here. Professionally, it's simply not. If you listen to the local professional communities, they are concerned about co-location of emergency services just to get better quantity training, to get a day-to-day preparedness and to increase the professional quality of hospital services in Helgeland. What the Center Party is running here is a race that is very few supported, at least very few professional environments. So what I'm going to ask you in the end is, what's the Central Party actually doing here? What is the objective of this proposal, what is the objective of this debate? If it's riding a principal horse to pretend they're occupied with a decentralised hospital, it gets to be. The rest of us are only concerned with professional quality and the best possible patient offer in the region, and fortunately, the Progress Party and the government parties have local support for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e4469	The representative Carl-Erik Grimstad has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e4474	The representative Toppe is asking for some professional reasons for the position the government parties have taken in this matter. But she hasn't got it, and it's because we're leaving the professional arguments in the process that's going on to the professional apparatus that we have at our disposal. And then I was right: the centre party wants four different alternatives on the table, because I hear the representative Lundtigen say here that he wants two full hospitals, while the representative Toppe wants an investigation. Then it must really be allowed to ask: what is the Workers' Party supposed to be here? Is the word «bond trap» a comprehensive term?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e4481	The centre party has been at the forefront of the conflict for many years to stop centralisation in the specialist health service. Yes, we have not only been at the forefront of the struggle to stop centralisation, but we have also been at the forefront of the conflict to develop specialist health services in several places in the country, including: in Alta, and I'm proud of that, because it's something the people deserve. This has led to significant progress in a number of discussions around the country, and no one can suggest that the Center Party has been in the front when it comes to securing hospitals both in Flekkefjord, on Tynset, in Kirkenes – yes, across the country. Now there is the battle on the Helgeland coast. It is referred to the rapporteurs of the Central Party on Helgeland who want a hospital south of Korgfjellet. It is a perfectly natural position because the distances are so large that one must have a full hospital south of the Korg Mountain if one is to maintain the necessary preparedness. The rapporteurs who are in favour of it are fighting for it, and they have full support from the Central Party. What has now been presented by the director is that, on the contrary, one does not have a fully-fledged hospital south of Korgfjellet, the hospital north of Korgfjellet. Here it's important that a thing is to reconcile the interests. Those who are north of the Korg Mountain shall have their offer, those who are south of Korg Mountain shall have their offer, and it shall be possible to reconcile readiness with the wise use of professionals in an economic way. If the Council of State decides that there will be security around the hospitals, a few recruits too, but what we see is that when there is no security for what the hospital should contain, the recruitment will easily fail. That's why it's a very good position the Center Party has presented here. The objective technical emergency argument is as strong after this debate as before this debate. I am sure that the rapporteurs who want a full hospital south of Korgberget will continue their work, and they will know that they have the Center Party with them in it. We have done a great deal of work by now also having the Workers' Party's big group on that point of view.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e4490	Sveinung Stensland has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e4495	I feel the need to correct the highly incorrect impression that this government does not work for the local hospitals. It is under this government that we build hospitals in Hammerfest, it is under this government that we build a new hospital in Kirkenes, and it is under this government Klinik Alta that comes up as it does. It's very special to take credit for it, because there was actually almost nothing happening in this field while Lundtigen's party was in government. What we had then was squabbling. We have gone from arguing power to action in hospital policy, and so on. So to the local rapporteurs: either I have not understood what they were talking about or they have seduced me. But it was now time that the order from the rapporteurs to us was: we want a hospital south of Korgberget. – And it was from a number of Senterpart rapporteurs. I think Lundtägen should talk a little bit to his own and get order in the siblings, for this is nothing but the deception of the assembly.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e4504	Per Olaf Lundtigen has the word twice before and gets the word to a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e4509	There has been a rather continuous debate on the 2005 specialist health service. The centre party has been at the forefront of all these discussions to ensure a decentralised offer. This has led to considerable internal unrest in the red-green government during that period, because the centre party had a clearly different position than the Labour Party council had. Once we've got a right-wing government, the center party's activity has led to the centralization forces being pushed back to the point after the point. It continues, and we are very pleased, because the power of the population is so great; one will have a safe offer of a living in pig-grown strips.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-26.ana.ud554e4515	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox As a result, the issues on today's map are finished. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? No one has asked for the floor, and the meeting has been cancelled.
