ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e70	The former temporary exonerated alternate of the State of Oppland, Stine Renate Håheim, resumes its seat. The called alternate of the Eastfold County, Bears Laabak, now takes the seat. Two permit applications are available: from the Group of the Progressive Party on the Permit of the Representative Christian Tybring-Gjede from 11 June to 14 June in order to take part in meetings of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Washington from the Right-wing Group on welfare leave of the representative Norunn Tveiten Benestad from 11 June to 14 June On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For the West-Agder counties: Mathias Bernander For Oslo: Geir Hågen Karlsen
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e117	The representative, Mrs Hussein, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e122	I want to put forward a proposal on behalf of myself, Freddy André Øvstegård and Solveig Schaugvoll Foss on a separate action plan against Islamophobia and Muslim hostility.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e127	The representative, Karin Andersen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e132	On behalf of the representative Mona Fagerås and myself, I would like to propose that the government submit concrete proposals and timetable for all Norwegian schools to become dyslexic and dyscal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e137	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e153	I refer you to my letter to the Presidentship of Stortinge from 29 May this year and thank you for the opportunity to give a briefing in the Stortinge on the oversight activities of the Food Authority. There has been a great deal of attention both from both the political and the media about the supervision activities of the Food Authority since the last month in the media there was a case of serious breaches of good administration in the Food Authority. Initially, I would like to give a general mention of the oversight activities of the Food Safety Authority. I would then like to mention the issues related to the supervisory practice of the Food Safety Authority, especially in the context of the much-mentioned inspection visit, a representative of the animal protection topic and a member of the Food Safety Authority carried out at a fur animal producer in Rogaland last year. Finally, I would like to explain the measures taken and planned to review and ensure that the supervisory work is in line with good administrative practice. We're all concerned that the food we eat is safe. It is basically each company that manufactures food and food products, which is responsible for compliance with the legislation, and that the products that are produced are health-friendly. Food surveillance has an important role to play in overseeing compliance by actors in such a way that we can all be sure that the food we eat is health-friendly. Compared to most other countries, few people get sick from the food they eat in Norway. We have a regulatory and competent animal keeper that contributes to the overall well-being of animals in our country. We are also in a unique international situation with regard to good plant and animal health. We have low antibiotic use, and we have little antibiotic resistance in food production – both on land and in water. Through the strict legislation and supervision we have throughout the food production chain, food production is facilitated with advantage compared to many other countries. Food surveillance also plays a crucial role in increasing Norwegian maritime food exports, including: by ensuring and demonstrating that Norwegian seafood production is carried out in such a way as to ensure market access for Norwegian seafood. Every year the Food Safety Authority issues more than 50000 health certificates for the export of seafood. Food surveillance manages legislation and has oversight responsibilities throughout the food production chain from soil to fjord to table. We are three government councils who are responsible for the legislation that the Food Authority supervises. It is the Minister for the Elderly and Public Health, it is the Minister for Fisheries, and I am the Minister for Agriculture and Food. As Minister of Agriculture and Food, I also have administrative responsibility for the Food Authority. The food security area, including animal health and animal welfare, is covered by the EEA Agreement. The EEA Agreement establishes comprehensive harmonised legislation in the field of food, including: for food, animals and intermediate products. Food surveillance has been delegated responsibility for following up, supervising and adopting individual decisions under the Food Act, the Animal Welfare Act, the Animal Breeding Act, the Plant Breeding Law, the Animal Health Act and the Cosmetics Act. Much of the legislation under the Food and Animal Welfare Act is targeted, less detailed and more discretionary than before. This provides flexibility for users but at the same time creates some challenges related to the exercise of discretion and the uniform practice of that legislation. Food surveillance carries out annually between 60000 and 70000 inspections throughout the food production chain, including the monitoring of animal welfare in non-food animals. This is an important job to ensure safe food and promote good animal health and good animal welfare. In recent years, the Food Authority has received between 300 and 400 complaints per year on decisions taken at regional level. About 20 pst. as a result of which the original decision has been converted. It is particularly in the fields of animal welfare and aquaculture that complaints are numerous and extensive. The practice of legislation and enforcement of supervision by the Food Safety Authority is monitored and controlled in various ways. The EFTA Surveillance Authority shall ensure that the EFTA States Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway comply with their obligations under the EEA Agreement. In addition to looking at how Norway has implemented EEA legislation, they look at how the Food Safety Authority carries out its control tasks in different areas of food safety within the scope of the EEA Agreement. Since 2006, ESA has been at 59 inspections in Norway, across the whole range of food safety. The average annual ESA inspections are between four and five. In addition, the Riksrevision presented the results of a study for, inter alia, Document 3:8 for 2011-2012. assessing the consistency of the oversight activities of the Food Safety Authority. The investigation carried out by the Riksrevision showed that there was no uniform treatment of oversight, approval and appeal cases. Following this survey, several measures were put in place to facilitate more consistent supervision. Among other things, the number of administrative levels was reduced from three to two, so that all appeal proceedings were collected at the head office and not distributed among regional offices. Another measure to achieve more uniform supervision is courses and lessons learnt in the use of instruments. During the last two years, the Food Safety Authority has carried out such meetings for its supervisory staff and its managers, in which approximately 900 employees have participated. The National Audit Office has also carried out two preliminary analyses, on the animal welfare area in 2015 and on the food safety area in 2016. In both cases the audits were concluded after the preliminary analysis. For animal welfare, the Riksrevision concluded, inter alia: that the preliminary analysis had shown that over time the Ministry of Agriculture and Food had given increasing priority to animal welfare, and that it seemed that the work was – and is – well anchored throughout the organisation of the Food Safety Authority. The National Audit Office now has an ongoing review of authorities’ efforts to address serious infringements of the Animal Welfare Act in agriculture. Both the ESA inspections and the National Audit Office reports provide the basis for ongoing improvement work in the Food Safety Authority. Food surveillance has been doing good for several years in reputational surveys of public enterprises. Several user surveys have also been carried out by the Food Safety Authority. Sentio Research conducted a nationwide survey in the form of telephone interviews with farmers on behalf of the Food Authority in October 2018. This showed that 85 pst. of those who had had oversight visits by the Food Safety Authority, thought the visit had been a positive or totally ok experience. 6 pst. had negative experiences with the oversight visit. In the last two years, the departments have paid particular attention to the quality of management in the governance dialogue with the Food Authority. In particular, experience gained from the monitoring campaign on Food Safety carried out by pig slaughter producers in Rogaland in 2017 and 2018 showed that there was a need for greater attention in the Food Safety Authority to ensure that those on the supervision visit are aware of how the Food Safety Authority interprets the legislation in advance of their supervision. Departments have also been concerned with strengthening user orientation, with increased emphasis on guidance in the ongoing supervisory work of the Food Safety Authority. The recent incident in the media revealed gross violations of good administrative practice in the context of the supervision of a fur animal producer in Rogaland. This may be suitable for weakening the trust and reputation of the Food Authority, both among Norwegian livestock producers and among consumers. It is therefore essential to find out how this happened, how it could happen — and not least to identify the necessary measures to avoid any similar happening again. It is essential that both consumers and those who receive a visit to the Food Safety Authority to carry out supervision can have confidence that supervision is carried out in a competent manner in line with the standards of good administration and that the findings presented in the supervisory reports are correct. Following this specific case, the Executive Director of the Food Safety Authority has asked to be removed from his post. In addition, the Regional Director and the current Head of Department and Head of Section have temporarily resigned from their management roles while ongoing investigations continue. Food surveillance generally has clear guidelines on how to act in relation to supervision. When inspecting a farm, the Food Safety Authority shall start the inspection by telling the farmer that the inspectors come from the Food Safety Authority, why they come and what they are to control. Inspectors shall also identify and disclose that the farmer is entitled to bear a witness. At the end of the inspection, the supervisory staff shall summarise the oversight orally and outline the follow-up process. There are also clear guidelines on the design of supervisory reports. With the exception of cases where immediate measures are necessary to prevent animals from suffering, the farmer shall be notified of a decision, with a time limit within which to give his opinion. The farmer may then correct misunderstandings and, where appropriate, inform him that the breaches of the rules have been corrected so that no decision is required. An immediate measure taken by the Executive Director of the Food Safety Authority was to ask all the heads of the Food Safety Authority to review the guidelines applicable to the communication of supervision with all their supervisors. In the dialogue with its staff in the future, the heads of the Food Authority will also focus specifically on the quality of management and the guidelines of the Food Authority, as well as on how the Food Authority communicates when they are on supervision. The director of the Food Safety Authority has been very clear that she is taking seriously the stories of the Food Safety Authority’s hearing from business organizations, farmers, and others. The Food Safety Authority questions whether they are performing the supervision properly and has seen that they need an external examination in order to be able to answer this question in a credible way. Therefore, in addition to internal studies, the Food Safety Authority will carry out an external examination to monitor the performance and monitoring of the Food Safety Authority. In the first place, the review will look at this in the South and West Food Authority’s region, in particular Rogaland – this because many of the feedback coming from different backgrounds apply to this particular county. The external review will also look at the distribution of responsibilities between the Food Safety Authority and animal protection subjects. The Food Safety Authority conducts an internal survey on the above-mentioned supervision of the fur farmer last summer, in order to find out the facts of the case. This survey has not been completed, but the relevant surveillance carried out on 29 June 2018 was carried out by a veterinarian employed by the Food Safety Authority and a member of the Animal Welfare Unit. According to the Food Safety Authority, the observations from the supervision were communicated orally with the farmer after supervision, and the findings and necessary measures that were then communicated were followed up. After the supervision, a report was written and it is clear that there is no consistency between the supervisory observations of 29 June 2018 and the report that was written on 2 July. The report was written by a staff member who did not participate during the inspection visit. The Food Safety Authority informed that during July 2018 there were several meetings between the farmer and the section manager or department to complain about the error. A new audit report was sent on 21 July 2018. The Food Safety Authority has also set up a separate group to carry out a preliminary assessment of their use of animal protection subjects in the supervisory process. The Food Safety Authority provides information that preliminary internal screening shows that there are several aspects of this scheme and how it is practised that need to be looked at. In the light of the findings of the internal and external studies, the Food Safety Authority will assess whether it is appropriate to carry out an external examination covering also other aspects. The Food Safety Authority will further review the guidelines on how they carry out supervision. As a follow-up to the work on the quality of administration of the Food Safety Authority, new guidelines on internal quality control of monitoring reports were put in place in 2018, and this audit is the theme of an internal audit this year. Food surveillance is also reviewing its internal guidelines on the use of instruments and principles relating to their use. The use of animal protection topics by the Food Safety Authority is one of several important points in the supervisory review of its administrative practices. It follows from the Animal Welfare Act that the Food Authority is to appoint animal protection subjects in order to ensure the equal treatment of laymen in animal welfare. Although the issue at issue is the basis for my presentation, it is a matter of administration in the Food Authority – for that is what it is all about – I think that time can also be ripe to discuss whether it is right to have a legal requirement for toys to participate in the supervision of animal welfare. Good oversight requires good competence both in the field of animal welfare and in the field of management. I would like to return to this, if necessary, in the light of the investigations and investigations that are now being carried out. I have recorded that there are questions in the media about weaknesses in the supervisory practices of the Food Safety Authority and any errors in the reports from the inspection of fur animal husbandry that may have contributed to the government's proposal to ban the keeping of fur animals. I can cancel that. Firstly, the supervisory reports and decisions of the Food Safety Authority do not show that there are more violations of the legislation in fur animal husbandry than in other animal husbandry. Secondly, the proposal for a ban on the keeping of fur animals is not justified by the non-compliance with the applicable legislation. Food supervision broke good management practices in connection with the supervision of the fur animal producer in Rogaland last summer. The public debate on the Food Authority, after this matter was discussed in the media, has been suitable for weakening the confidence of the Food Authority and, therefore, the reputation of the Food Authority. I take that very seriously. We need a food surveillance team with the users and focus on good dialogue and good guidance. In order to have broad confidence in the population, we also rely on the use of the necessary tools by the Food Authority in cases where food safety, animal health or animal welfare are threatened. The Food Safety Authority has announced that it is carrying out both internal investigations and external examination of several aspects related to its supervisory activities. I believe that it is now important that the new management of the Food Safety Authority implements the measures necessary to ensure that supervision has good administrative practices and that supervisory tasks are carried out in a manner that provides confidence, both in establishments where the Food Safety Authority carries out supervision and in the general population. I want to follow closely the improvement work that the Danish Food Safety Authority is now doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e241	The President will propose that the statement by the Minister of Agriculture and Food on the supervisory activities of the Food Safety Authority be sent to the Food Safety Committee. – It seems that the hall is very pleased with, so then it is deemed adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e257	As agreed, I will present this matter as the rapporteur-general. The Ministry of Health and Health proposes, in its proposal, to make the fee for an infringement a reaction option in the event of a breach of certain standards of action laid down in the Pharmacy Act, the Medicines Act and the People's Rights Act. A clear majority of the hearing bodies are in favour of the proposal to impose an infringement fee in the relevant laws. The majority of the hearing bodies are in favour of using the infringement fee as a reaction agent, where necessary, and are legally sound. The vast majority of hearing bodies have linked comments to individual laws and standards of conduct, but not to the general fee for infringement. More points to the need for good information. The Ministry of Justice and Defence states that caution should be exercised in imposing an infringement fee on natural persons other than commercial persons in cases where the standard of conduct is not directed against a limited group. The Ministry of Justice and Defence questions whether the standards of conduct for which an infringement fee was proposed are, in some cases, also directed against employees and contractors in the establishment. As regards the sanctioning authority and the appeal body, the rules of procedure, the obligation to impose an infringement fee, the person to whom the fee is due, the provisions on payment and recovery and the limitation of the infringement, none of the hearing bodies has commented. Nine hearing bodies have expressed their views on the proposal to impose an infringement fee as a sanctioning option under the Pharmacy Act. All the hearing bodies which have expressed their views are in favour of the proposal. Ten of the hearing bodies have delivered their opinion on the proposal to impose an infringement fee as a sanction for new standards of conduct laid down in and in compliance with the pharmaceutical law. All the hearing bodies, with the exception of the medicinal product industry, support the proposal to impose an infringement fee in the event of infringements of the relevant standards of conduct of the medicinal product law. The pharmaceutical industry is also the only one with concerns about the measurement of the fee. The majority of the hearing bodies which express an opinion on the proposed amendments to the Law on Social Security and the related regulation are in favour of the imposition of an infringement fee. Several hearing bodies highlight the importance of ensuring adequate and clear information on its content for those using the legislation. An overall committee shares the view of supporting the legislative changes in the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e278	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e294	Following the recommendation of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to three rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e303	Here we make some changes to a couple of laws. The most important thing we do is we legislate a coordinating patient representative. The majority do not want to have a separate national patient representative, but that one of the existing patient representatives should have a coordinating role. That is what we believe is important in order to achieve better coordination and a more consistent approach among the patients' representatives, even if they are still to be allowed to work freely in the different counties. In addition, we extend the role of patients’ representatives to county dentistry. There's some disagreement in the committee. A minority also want the private part of dental care to be included, while the majority believe that it is the county section that is to be included. An information obligation is also laid down for the county councils, so that the county council is obliged to inform its patients and residents of this scheme. In addition, previous changes to the Patient and User Rights Act have led to the repeal of other previously adopted changes. We have to call that an incursion, and we're also correcting it, so that the original intention of the law is fulfilled. I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation and look forward to a stormy debate on this amendment.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e314	Patient and user representatives play a very important role for those who have had a meeting with the health care community that did not go as planned. Therefore, when we deal with a matter like this, it is important that the intention is that we strengthen that role further, and not least stress the independence of the patient and user representatives. It is not the biggest disagreements in this case, but some considerations will still be included. One is that, in the light of the regional reform, we see a tendency for patients and users to be centralised. Therefore, the Workers' Party is concerned that we can end up with a situation in which different access to the services offered by patients and user representatives, depending on where you live. In my part of the country, Agder, we already see a centralization that is about to happen. It must not be the case that people who get a long distance from the patient and user representatives also have lower access to them, thereby weakening their rights in the face of bad health experiences. I also think it makes sense to coordinate patients' and user representatives. But we see that there may be a certain challenge in combining the roles of local representatives and coordinating representatives on behalf of all representatives. It can be characterized by where you are, when you want to balance between two different roles. Therefore, we believe that in the long term an evaluation can make sense to see how this has worked. We are very pleased that the government parties have now finally left the idea of coordinating the patient and user representatives with the Senior Ombudsman role. In the course of the budgetary procedure, we were clearly informed that there was no good idea, and we were concerned that this could lead to others getting a higher threshold to contact the patient and the user representative. I am therefore pleased that it is now being solved in another way. Finally, I also want to get into the dental field. The working party is one of the parties that has previously pointed out that dental health should also be covered by the role of patient and user representatives. That's why it's good that it's now included. But in terms of dental health, it's a challenge that a lot of work in the dental field today is solved privately. This means that with the proposal now presented by the government, everyone using a private dentist will not be covered by the scheme. So it's a paradox that adults who pay and go to County now will be able to get this help and support, while those who are referred to a private offer will not be able to get it. We don't have a proposal for this in the hall today, but we think it makes sense to follow this further, and we're open to see if you need to treat the dental field differently, all the time it's a healthcare service that's organized in a different way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e329	The centre party has been working for several years to strengthen the patient and user housing system. Today's proposed extension to public dental care is a follow-up to a proposal that the Centre Party has been working for a long time. But another of the changes in the system today, to legislate a coordinating role, according to the view of the Center Party, is a bad proposal. Today, the county is administered by the State, by the Health Directorate, which is responsible for both human resources, economics and business management, but the county has a budget of its own and is itself organised within the framework of which the Health Directorate has drawn up. Responsibility for coordinating that part has been added to the Ombudsman College, and they have set up a work selection consisting of four local offices, selected for two years at a time, and they themselves choose a leader. They draw up a common strategy and a strategy paper, and they also draw up a joint annual report. Additions from all over the country participate in professional groups for competence, administration, statistics, etc. In the Central Party, we are committed to not adopting bureaucratic arrangements, when one can make things work as well – not to say better – without. This is such a case. When the government proposes to legislate that one of today's patient and user needs should have a coordinating role for all the demands, and that this ban should assist the other requirements in the development of a common work methodology, competence development, guidance, etc., it is without this being supported by the ban itself. They write in the listening phrase: ‘From our point of view, it is difficult to see that the national ombudsman function can be combined with being a local ombudsman. The tasks of local ombudsmen occupying an entire position and it is unrealistic to believe that the national tasks should be carried out in a professionally good manner and with the desired effect by placing the tasks in a position which has already been fully filled. The work of the national function will have to take place at all levels of the organisation and in several disciplines in order to fulfil this important task. [[...]] In addition, it will be difficult for businesses, the media and the public to understand such a division of roles.’ The Medical Association also asks questions as to whether the dual role of local and coordinating law enforcement is feasible, and the Medical Association writes in the hearing that they believe that ‘both premise and organisational model are flawed’. We think it's strange that the majority of people think they know better than the patient and user environment themselves in this case, so from that point of view we don't support that part of the proposition, but we vote for the part that deals with the county dental services.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e343	The Patient and User Ombudsman Scheme is an important offer to patients and users. All patients and users should be able to receive assistance from the patient and user representatives, irrespective of where they live in the country. The Government wants to strengthen the Ombudsman’s system in terms of both content and scope. We propose to legislate that one of today's patient and user representatives should have a coordinating role for all the agents. In addition, we suggest that county dental services become part of the patient and user ombudsman system. This means that patients who have received such dental services may also be assisted by the Ombudsman. A broad majority supports the proposal for a coordinating role for one of the ombudsmen. I'm glad. The system of local agents is being continued and they continue to act independently and independently of the health and care services. By legislating the coordinating role, we build on the established cooperation between the ombudsmen in order to achieve an even better and equal range of services for patients and users. The government believes that the establishment of a coordinating representative will facilitate more committed cooperation between local agents. The coordinating officer shall, inter alia: assist local representatives with the development of their competences and contribute to the common solution and understanding of matters of principle. The government also proposes to expand the work of patient and user representatives. Today, the agencies are working on matters from the State specialist health service and the municipal health and care service. The government proposes that the ombudsmen should also be able to deal with cases from county dental services. The proposal is in line with previous requests by the Stortinget. In particular, enlargement will strengthen the rights of those who are unable to promote their own needs in the field of dental care. This could be done, for example, by: relate to patients and users of municipal health and care services receiving services in their own homes or in hospitals. I am pleased that the majority of the committee supports the government's proposals. Lawmaking that one of the ombudsmen should have a coordinating role and extending the system to the county dental services is important in the government’s efforts to create the patient’s health and care service.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e360	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e365	One of the areas in this field in which the Workers' Party is involved is that all should have equal access to healthcare and that all should have equal access to the services provided by the Patient and User Ombudsmen. We now have a regional reform that seems to be also likely to lead, at least indirectly, to a change in the organisation of patient and user representatives. It must not be done in such a way that some feel that they have less access to these services. My first question to the Council of State is therefore: how will he ensure that this will not become geographically biased? My second question in this minute is about balancing the coordinating role and the local ombudsman role. Does the Council of State see that there may be some challenges to it, and that in that case you have to secure enough resources to follow up both parts of the job? How, then, does the Council of State follow up on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e374	One makes a concrete assessment of the organisation of the local patient and user representatives in the context of the regional reform. It is clear that the regional reform will also contribute to strengthening the scheme by providing a wider and more comprehensive expertise and professional environment in the scheme. Then it is important that they also organise themselves in such a way that they are accessible to patients and users throughout the new region. It will be fully possible today with today's opportunities for communication and technology.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e381	I thank you for the answer, but I hope that the Council of State is attentive and will follow up this issue. It's about people in a situation where they need help, and then it's not always possible to mobilise the most important resources to make contact with someone who might be in an office that's gone further. My follow-up question is about dental care. I am very pleased that the government has finally included the County Dental Service. A large proportion of dental care in Norway is private, as it is organised differently from the rest of healthcare. That is why the Workers' Party in this case, presented by the Health and Care Committee, has pointed out that perhaps in the long term what to do with those who have to choose a private dentist should also be considered. Will the Council of State follow up and see if this is reflected in the fact that those who have been in the county dental care are better able to follow up after mistreatment than the rest of the patients in the dental care?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e388	Yes, of course, we must follow this. I still believe that what we are doing today is very important. It is often the patients who have rights in the public dentistry, for whom the county council is responsible, who are currently facing challenges in obtaining their rights. In particular, elderly patients living in nursing homes and elderly patients living at home and having home care, where we see that very many people have clear rights to dental services from the public that they do not receive. This is often related to other healthcare services that are part of the patient and user ombudsman scheme. In order for the patient and user representatives to be able to work on the overall offer and to ensure that the individual is given the rights that they are entitled to, it is important that this becomes part of the scheme. Those treated by private dentists have the opportunity to complain to the local complainants of the Dental Association. 95 pst. The dentist is a member of the Dental Association. These are often less complicated things.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e396	According to the patient and user environment itself, the system that the multiple adopts today is a system that they themselves do not want. They say that it is unrealistic to believe that national tasks can be carried out in a professionally good way and with the desired effect by adding the tasks to an already fully covered position, and they are also concerned that it will be difficult for the public to understand such a division of roles. Now this is being adopted, but I want to ask the Minister of Health how to overinterpret the patient and user environment itself, that this should become a system that provides a professionally good way to operate patient and user accommodation at national level, and not least at the local level in the shared function.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e403	Patient and user representatives have organized themselves in such a way that they have a kind of coordinating role, but there is a voluntary system, and they have no authority over each other. I believe that there is a need to coordinate this work better, simply to ensure a level playing field between the different local agents. If we are to do so, that role must actually be enshrined in the law. That those who work in the scheme today, do not want such a scheme, I take note, but I believe that is what is right on the basis of what is important for patients and users of this scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e410	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e428	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e437	Drug shortage is an increasing national and global problem. The number of delivery failures in Norway is multiple since 2007 and up to today. In 2017, there were 358 missing and deregistrations, compared to 191 in 2016. In 2018, this number was increased to 684 messages. This year, the State Medicines Agency expects about 1,400 reported deficiencies. Although not all failures are critical, because there are alternatives, this shows the seriousness of the situation. The representative proposal we are discussing today has several measures to reduce the vulnerability of drug shortages in Norway. The Committee has organised a hearing on the matter, which provided the Committee with useful information. A Joint Committee recognises that the main reasons for lack of medicinal products are beyond the limit of Norway, while requiring clear national measures to reduce this vulnerability. In the opinion of the Committee, the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness presented in 2018 a risk analysis for the lack of medicinal products in Norway. In it it is determined that most of the deficiencies are related to problems of production. The pharmaceutical market is global, the drug supply chain is long and complex, the pharmaceutical industry is characterized by large international companies with production departments spread around the world, and the industry is largely characterised by rent production and constant buying-in and ownership changes. A finished medicinal product may consist of sub-components from several countries and parts of the world. The medicinal product authorities shall have access to information on the manufacturing site of the medicinal product being marketed, but that information is subject to a compulsory medical obligation. The Directorate for Health has been tasked with re-evaluation of the preparation of medicinal products in Norway. The Health Directorate and the State Medicines Agency, in their hearing in the Committee, indicated that several of the proposed measures contained in this proposal for a representative are part of the work they are currently carrying out, and the majority of the Committee refers to this. In the configuration, the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV are behind the concrete proposals on increased preparedness stockpiles, better alerting, better analytical tools, better Nordic and European cooperation, self-production in hospitals of critically important medicinal products, reducing vulnerability and supply by agreeing with more than one provider, annual distribution for the Stortinget, better preparedness and competence on lack of medicinal products in the municipal health service, the provision for the rationalisation of medicinal products in the context of deficiencies and reviewing the legislation on parallel imports and exports. With this, I'm making the suggestions that the Center Party is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e450	The representative Kjersti Toppe then mentioned the suggestions she made.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e455	To get sick first, Norway is basically a good country to get sick in. But there are also some concerns in our country about how we follow up those who have a disease. Drug shortage is one of those concerns, and it's a concern that just seems to explode. As the rapporteur was involved, in 2016 it was 191 cases, in 2018 we were able to get 684 cases, and now it seems to me that, before summer has started properly, we pass the record year 2018. Just a year and a half ago, I challenged the Council of State in a written question to address this situation. Little seems to have happened. If you look at the statistics, the only thing that's happened is that the deficiencies have exploded. This is a notified crisis that seems to be becoming more and more serious. We cannot sit and wait until life and health are at risk. In this context, the Labour Party has today promoted this proposal for a representative to reduce the vulnerability of drug shortages. We in the Workers' Party also recognize that there is no quick fix on this question. We have an understanding that this is largely about international relations. One who depended on some of the drugs that were missing told me that he lacked medication because of floods at a factory in Hawaii. Then I realize that there is something the Storting can do little about. However, there are a good number of measures we can take at home to equip ourselves better, for these measures have given us very good feedback in the hearing that has been held. The increased use of emergency stock gives us a little better time when the deficiencies occur. Early warning in the event of a defect also improves our ability to encroach on us. Self-production – we cannot produce all drugs ourselves, but we may be able to strengthen the production of some critical drugs. The Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness, DSB, has carried out an analysis that shows that we can have several thousand deaths if we are to lack insulin and antibiotics for three weeks. We also have a proposal that we may have to make tenders where there is more than one winner, so that we make ourselves less dependent on only one supplier. We also know that primary health services face some of the same challenges. We've seen one thing about multidose bags where the drugs have been missing. We also believe that looking at rationing to avoid hamstering can be a good measure. Unfortunately, the government parties today are voting down all ten measures that we are proposing. They therefore assume considerable responsibility for those who depend on the necessary medicines. The time to wait and see is over. The time to act is now if we are to take seriously the consequences of drug shortages on the population of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e468	Drug shortages are serious, and it is a complex issue both nationally and globally. In recent years, there has been an increase in drug shortages in Norway. Deficiencies of low metabolism drugs, blood pressure drugs, blood thinners are reported, among others. What can often happen when patients don't get the drugs they usually use is that they have to use alternative drugs, but it can lead to worse effects or side effects. There may also be quotations with a lack of medicinal products which could be dangerous for the lives and health of patients. The question is how to prevent critical drug shortages. This concerns, among other things: on transparency and preparedness, and on this issue I would like to raise one of the interesting points of the hearing, which was related to parallel exports. This issue was raised by the Medical Products Industry, the LMI, and the Joint Organisation of Disabilities. Exports of medicinal products from wholesale stocks were identified as a possible cause of lack of medicinal products. The LMI pointed out that today extensive parallel exports of medicinal products from Norway to wholesalers in other countries are taking place. They also point out that as long as we have enough medicines in Norway to meet demand, this is not a problem, but when deficiencies occur that affect several countries at the same time, it is important that the drugs intended for Norway remain in Norway. The LMI considers that the possibility of prohibiting or limiting parallel exports of medicinal products included in emergency lists should be explored. SV shares this view, together with the rest of the opposition, that medicinal products intended to be kept in emergency storage in Norway must actually remain here. We need to have an overview and preparedness, develop good analytical tools and know which medicines we have available at all times. We must have ongoing knowledge of preparedness across the country and have solutions for our own production and capacity at hospitals. The point is always to be in front and to have time to find alternative solutions. It means knowing whether there are situations of lack of medicine and having solutions to prevent it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e481	I would also like to thank the proposers for raising an important – and difficult – issue, not least because it gives the Storting and the Council of State an opportunity to state that very good work is being done by the authorities to avoid acute situations and that preparedness in the field of medicines is being continuously strengthened. Preparedness is often a matter of coordination. Coordination in this context is concerned with clarifying responsibilities, allocating tasks and providing the necessary clarifications and decisions. It is important to clarify that, in this context alone, the preparation of medicinal products becomes too narrow. The work carried out by our emergency services — even now undertaken by a state council — is about building crisis management capabilities within a wide range of tasks. As the Council of State will certainly emphasise, it is therefore necessary to see the proposals submitted in the context of the ongoing revision of the Health Protection Act, which I understand is similar around the corner. This is a demanding job. In this work, we must be clear that the supply of medicinal products to primary and specialised health services is not uniform, as is known in practice to be different from different contracts with different pharmacies. Specialists have different storage requirements, and these two supply chains cannot be merged without delay. In the context of the Health Protection Act, a proposal has been made that municipalities and health businesses should have their own local stocks of critical medicinal products. Health establishments are already required to assess their own local stockholding. As far as I know, this works to varying degrees. Therefore, the fact that the municipalities, in particular with a municipal structure which unfortunately continues to be characterised by too small units, should be able to build up such stocks on their own seems unrealistic. In any case, provision should be made for municipalities to make more joint purchases. DSB studies in the analysis of drug-deficiency crisis scenarios showed that the stocks of primary apothecgrossists are the most concerned with the Health and Deficiency Directorate. There is no control body for primary health services similar to the lack of specialist health services. As such, proposal No. 2 in the proposal for a representative, but it is precisely up to the audit work of the Health Protection Act to discuss this issue. In sum: from the left, we are well satisfied with both the government’s situational understanding and the management of the problem of drug shortages. I cannot see how the proposals presented can do anything to improve this situation considerably.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e496	The representative of Morland said that he asked a question on the lack of medicines on 6 February 2019. Well, in 2014, I had an interview about lack of medicine where I pointed to a lot of what is still the problem, so if we're going to measure it in when the question was asked, I lead by five years. This is a terriblely demanding situation, and it is mostly about the fact that the pharmaceutical industry is not doing its job. They are so dedicated to getting new medicines on the market that they forget what they have already received on the market for, and the pact that has been before, that yes, you get well paid for medicines on patents, but you also have to take on the idea of producing medicines with less earnings, seems to be dissolved. In the summer of 2016 there was a big debate on this. So the industry doesn't do its job, and the international consolidation has hit everyone and the world. Last week – or it was a week before – Technical Director Madsen of the State Medicines Agency said that Norway is lucky because we were at an early stage in the fight against drug shortages. Creating an impression that we're late is at best a history falsification. So to some of the moments in the proposals, among other things. parallel exports. As the SV representative says, there is a challenge with parallel exports. But we're going to remember that parallel imports are a big part of the solution when we're short. Norway is very large on parallel imports of the medicines we lack, and if we prohibit parallel exports, why do we need parallel imports? It's not in the jump. Self-production? Yes, absolutely – of specialized products, but we can't actually be self-sufficient in all of this. There are hundreds of lines where there are problems, and we can't build that industry. We have a few, very competent, manufacturing environments. We're going to bet on them, but it's an illusion to think that we can be self-sufficient in drugs. Storage: Things have already been done, and we are now getting a new report from the Health Directorate, which comes in two weeks, with a number of measures. So to what provoked me most in Morland's posts. He says something like that we have a lot to answer to those who now lack medication. Well, who's the one who started the job? Yes, it's our government. Who started that report? Yes, it's our government. And how smart is it to adopt ten proposals on what to do before the leading experts in Norway have submitted their report? It's actually unwise. This is just a demonstration. The working party has suddenly discovered that there is a lack of medicine, something we have been working on for several years.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e513	In 2018, as mentioned above, 684 cases of lack of medicinal products were reported in Norway. There was a sharp increase from 2017, when 358 cases were reported, which in turn was a significant increase from 191 cases in 2016. On 14 February 2019, the number of cases was already 363. Some of the increase can be explained by better reporting regimes, but on the part of the professional authorities, including the State Medicines Agency, it has been pointed out that the growing number of cases of lack of medicinal products is both real and serious. Drug shortages are due, inter alia, to: shortage of raw materials, failure of production, miscalculation of supply/demand ratio, and structural changes in the global pharmaceutical market. In most cases, the lack is due to different production problems. Then I noticed that the Directorate of Health has been given the task of reviewing the drug preparedness in Norway in cooperation with the Agency and regional health companies. The project report from the Directorate of Health was initially due to be completed in 2018, but was postponed and is due to be presented in June, according to the Directorate. I understand that the Health Minister in his letter of reply will not comment on the individual proposals in the draft representative, but will consider them in the context of the measures proposed by the Health Directorate when the project report is available. The lack of security in the population is also a serious problem of preparedness. I must also say that I reacted very strongly to Mr Mørland's comments, where he believes that the government parties assume a great responsibility by not voting for the ten proposals of the Workers' Party. It is a very serious concern, and it comes even though the representative of Morland knows that there is now a work going on in which the Health Directorate is going to go through what is involved in the preparation of medicinal products and make proposals for action. So it's going to be presented this month. I hope Morland takes the floor again and regrets that he almost accuses the government parties of jeopardizing people's health and life, because that's what he actually stood on this pulpit and said.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e524	As the representatives refer to, a sharp increase in the number of cases of lack of medicinal products has been reported in Norway. And as everyone knows, this is not a strange phenomenon, this is a trend that we see throughout Europe and the United States. So far, there have been few cases where patients have not received satisfactory treatment. On the other hand, any lack of medicinal products will lead to uncertainty and additional health care work. Therefore, lack of medicinal products may pose a challenge to patient safety, even if it is possible to obtain similar treatment. I therefore understand that this is a matter of concern to the population. However, a number of measures have been taken to reduce the vulnerability of drug shortages in Norway. The wholesalers are obliged to keep a stockpile of defined medicinal products. Suppliers are obliged to notify the State Medicines Agency in the event of deficiencies. The health regions have established their own infirmity centre, and the State Medicines Agency informs doctors, pharmacists and patients about how to deal with specific situations. I have proposed, in the revised national budget, to strengthen the State Medicines Agency, so that they get more resources to deal with this ongoing work, which has become bigger. The Directorate for Health has been entrusted with the task of re-evaluation of the preparation of medicinal products in Norway and this report shall be completed at the end of this month. In parallel, the Swedish Medicines Agency has been mandated to explore the possibility of a basis for rationalisation in the supply of pharmaceuticals from pharmacists and wholesalers, in order to avoid hamstering medicinal products through reduced access. The aim is to send the proposal to be consulted before the summer holiday. In order to combat drug shortages, we are actively working to find national instruments that can help us to deal with the situation and care for patients. But we also have to work internationally to look at the possibility of reducing the number of deficiencies. Norway will never be self-sufficient in medicines. The processes and costs are too complex and too large, and there are too many different active substances that healthcare needs. However, the Health Directorate will explore the possibilities for some production in Norway, the Nordic countries or Europe. I do not want to comment on the specific proposals that the representatives make. These are proposals that are part of the Health Directorate's investigation are in the process of being finalised. Then we will also be able to see the different consequences of the proposals. This is a complex area where one should not address individual actions without having seen the impact of individual actions. It will not contribute positively to the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e543	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e549	From 2016 onward, the Minister of Health has seen dramatic developments in the number of cases of drug shortages. This is a development that has been announced and that has only strengthened itself year after year. Now the Workers' Party, together with SV and the Center Party, promotes ten proposals, which have almost been ridiculed because they come here in the hall. I think it's an opposition's role to actually point to what's not good enough in our society, and that there has to be an understanding that we're not sitting quietly waiting for a report that the government's waiting for. Since all these proposals are put to the vote, my question to the Council of State Höie is: Are you satisfied with the measures that have been taken so far, and what is the explanation that, in cases of lack of medicinal products, growth has only continued to explode?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e556	The representative was in his own intervention about the reason for the increase in the deficiency situation, and the representative also understands very well that, as Minister of Health in Norway, I have limited instruments to influence the deficiency situation itself. What is my responsibility is to make sure that Norway is best prepared to deal with what is an international development, and that is what we need to measure. I have explained in my article a number of the measures that have already been taken. If I had been satisfied with the situation, I would not have given the Directorate of Health the task of assessing the preparedness and introducing new measures. What surprises me is that the Workers' Party does not take this knowledge into account, that they do not take into account that this is a work going on, and that they are willing to try to ensure that there is a majority in the Storing today for a number of proposals that are not sufficiently elaborated, in an area that is complex, and where individual measures can actually exacerbate the situation, not improve it, if they are not carefully thought through.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e561	It is precisely that the Labour Party has taken over the situation, which makes us stand here and discuss this matter today. The Health Minister has had plenty of time to act, good time to place orders for action, but this has not yet happened. The Labour Party is not going to be opposed to the measures that may come up in a few months from the government, but we mean it is urgent, because we believe that we can do more, including here in Norway, despite the fact that there is an international situation we are talking about. Of course, it also recognises the Workers' Party. My next question to the Minister of Health is about side effects. We recently received an adverse reaction report that was very worrying. There we see that the number of incidents reported and the number of deaths are at a record level. I have previously asked the Minister of Health a written question about this. Should we be concerned that the lack of medicinal products also causes more people to experience side effects, partly to a serious extent?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e568	The representative of Morland has to take on board the fact that new measures have been given to address the lack of medicinal products. The representative repeats and repeats that no action has been taken by the government in this area, and that is not correct. The representative has gained quite a good insight into the work being done through the committee hearing, and I hope that he will now soon take this into account and not try to create the impression that this situation is not handled. New measures have been put in place and further actions have been ordered. Adverse reactions are an increasing problem. I'm glad we have better reporting of side effects. It provides an opportunity to deal with that situation. It is clear that in cases where one has to switch to other medicinal products in the absence of a medicinal product, it may also have consequences for the side effects.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e575	The party colleague of the Minister of Health, Sveinung Stensland, recently made a statement pointing out that he had already notified the situation that was going on in 2014. When is it so far after 2016 that we really see that the lack of medicine has taken off, but then my question becomes: If that understanding was established in the Right already in 2014, is the Minister of Health satisfied with the long time it has taken to prepare us as best we can for the pharmaceutical situation we see?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e580	It's not like we haven't done anything about this since 2014. We've been working on this all the way. In my article I presented some of the measures already in place. It's the duty of the wholesalers to hold the stockpiles. Suppliers are obliged to notify the Swedish National Medicines Agency of the existence of a deficiency. We have reinforced the work of ensuring that one informs well in such situations. What we also see is that one has largely dealt with drug shortages well in Norway. As the representative of Stensland was also involved, those working on this have just said that Norway has been better prepared than others to deal with this situation. This is not least due to the involvement of the representative of Stensland, who has contributed to political attention in this area at a time when no other politician was involved in this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e585	I have a question to the Council of State on proposal No. 10th of which: «are subject to review by the government the legislation on parallel imports and exports of medicinal products and propose the necessary legislative and regulatory changes to ensure that parallel trade contributes to the least possible contribution to the lack of medicinal products». This is one of the ten proposals that are being criticised today. I think it's a sensible proposal, and I'd like to ask the Council of State if he doesn't see that this is an area that should be reviewed. Parallel imports are good, but parallel exports are not good if critically important medicinal products are affected. We've been given indications that this is happening. What would the State Council do with this particular area? Is the EEA Regulation a problem in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e597	With regard to the specific proposal, all aspects of this work are assessed. There's nothing that's excluded from it. However, this very proposal illustrates the complexity of these issues and why it is not a good idea to jump on individual proposals without a sufficient basis for decision-making. With regard to the EEA Agreement, I can say with certainty that Norway would have been in a much more difficult situation in view of the lack of medicinal products if we had not been a member. The central party's policy in this area would have strengthened the challenges of drug shortages internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e604	I understand that it is a new trend to answer questions with criticism, but that is the way it is. When one says that it is not a good idea to jump on single proposals, it is very special when the proposal is about to review the legislation. One concludes on nothing. This shows that the Council of State has locked up in this matter. I have one more question, and it applies to proposal No. 7 to ask the Government to issue an annual report on the state of preparedness for medicinal products. What has happened several times is that Stortinget has not been involved - this should only be done at ministerial level. Why will the government not inform the Storting about the drug preparedness in the country through annual status reports?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e615	When the representative Toppe asks whether the EEA Agreement is relevant to this area, I expect that she is interested in an answer, even if she does not like the answer. With regard to the issue of briefing the Storting, we will come back to the ways in which the Storing is to be briefed on this area. It may not be most appropriate to have an annual notice on this topic. There are also other ways of orientating the Storing.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e622	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e630	Drug shortage in Norway is an increasing and potentially fatal problem. As represented by Bekkewold, the number of cases increased from 191 in 2016 to 358 in 2017 and to a total of 684 in 2018. In May of this year we had already passed 2018 in the number of cases. Although part of the increase can be explained by better reporting regimes, the increase in the number of drug shortages is highly real and serious. Hundreds of people live in fear that drugs will suddenly end — drugs they need to work, participate in social relationships — yes, in some cases even drugs they need to survive. The Norwegian Medical Products Agency often finds good solutions, but some solutions can be expensive and time consuming, such as: to switch to another drug. Sometimes the option might be viewed as less preferable than the medicine we're running out of. We could, for example, read in the Evening Post on March 7 this year that the Hospital Eastfold was empty of the type of cell poison used in patients undergoing high - dose treatment. Therefore, the doctors had to give priority to the fact that only cancer children could get this type of cell poison during the deficiency period. In January we were able to read in Stavanger Aftenblad about the lack of blood pressure medications, blood thinners and drugs against low metabolism. All three are important drugs, especially for many older people. TV 2 reported in February about a hospital that had to stop scheduled surgery for a shorter period due to drug shortages. These are problems we need to find solutions to now. To the positioning parties: it is permissible to change and gather on good proposals even if there is an opposition party that promotes them. The three main proposals of the Labour Party in this case are: further expanded use of emergency stockpiles; the government ensures the capacity of the hospitals for the self-production of vital medicinal products; whether a basis for the rationalisation of medicinal products should be established in the context of situations where a lack of important medicinal products occurs or may arise Today's adoption of these proposals does not prevent the government parties from proposing further measures to resolve the lack of medicinal products. But we can't wait, as long as the situation grows more critically.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e657	No one today suggests that Norway should be fully self-sufficient in medicinal products. Nevertheless, it is repeated here from the pulpit. The centre party has not proposed yearly status messages, as the state council says in the linescrops. We have a proposal for an annual distribution for Stortinget. It may be in a budget, and it may be in connection with another matter. So even that's what we're going to argue against. This is not just about patients and patient safety, it is about the country's preparedness. In the report of the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness, they analysed the risk of serious drug shortages in Norway and what it would mean. They started with a lack of penicillin and insulin. This would lead to a situation of 2,500 deaths and 8 000 seriously ill. In the absence of penicillin and anaesthetics, there is not so much to be done before the lack of medicinal products can become an important weapon. It's about the country's preparedness. There has been a debate between the parties and between the representatives on who has been most concerned with the lack of medicinal products. For my part, I can say that the Center Party, when we dealt with the drug notification in 2016, had a concrete proposal that – if it had received multiples – would have led to that we had not had this big debate here today. The proposal was as follows: ‘The Government is asked to carry out an independent investigation into the lack of medicinal products and to return to Stortinget with a concrete action plan to ensure preparedness for drug shortages in Norway.’ The medicinal product notification was made in 2015. This proposal was put to the vote by the Government Party of today and the Labour Party. Only SV support was received in Stortinget. Today, the government party is voting down the proposals for action to reduce vulnerability in the case of lack of medicinal products. I can understand that some proposals will wait and not vote for, as one waits for the Health Directorate report. It's not the same thing as having to chat about what we're proposing, and call it protest proposals and other things, when they're taken out of the report that came from the Directorate in 2018. It is also the case that several of the proposals are designed in such a way that an assessment is requested. What is lacking in the drug preparedness debate in Norway is that the government party refuses to let this be anchored in the Storting, refusing to let this come on the political agenda. This is not happening today, and it did not happen during the treatment of the medicinal product notification in 2015.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e675	The chairman of the committee, Becquerad, made a very strong contribution with attacks on me and challenged me to complain. I would like to apologise, but that is probably not what the representative, Mr Becquerad, wants me to complain. I am sorry that this has taken too long. It has taken several years to address this situation, and I regret that on this occasion, using this case, you do not take the necessary steps. Government parties have seen the situation evolve. It is very good that the Health Directorate has now been challenged to make recommendations on action. However, measures should have already been taken to a much stronger extent. Then it should just be missing that the opposition here does not address the situation that has arisen and is developing. On the other hand, the way in which the government parties deal with the opposition's proposals here, I find it regrettable – that no work has been done by the opposition in depth and seriously, in greater seriousness. Of course, when the recommendations come from the Health Directorate, the Workers' Party will support all the proposals we think are sensible, but we believe that the situation that has evolved has gone too far before we have launched powerful measures in Norway. So to Sveinung Stensland, who held a post that was largely an attack coin on me, and who also was a little bit about who asked first. Now I have probably asked so much that I am not sure if the representative of Stensland has an overview of all the questions I have asked. I asked about this already early in 2018. But in 2014 he had to beat me, because then I didn't sit on the Stortinget. But the very point of the representative of Stensland, that he challenged this situation already in 2014, illustrates my point – that this has taken too much time and gone too far before the government parties have seen the seriousness of the situation. Since 2016 the situation has really escalated. There is likely to be a sevenfold increase in the number of non-compliances over the three years if the estimate of 1 400 non-compliances is to be taken into account in 2019. I do not doubt that the representative of Stensland has worked and been sincerely involved in this issue. The problem is that the figures just show that it's gotten worse in all those years, from 2014, when Right, the representative of Stensland and his government have been sitting in power and sitting with the opportunities to do what we can in Norway to remedy the situation as much as possible. I really hope that the government parties get on the track when they get the report they've been waiting for, and I really hope that it's not too late for those who now experience lack of medicine in a serious situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e696	I would like to address a topic that has only been affected to a lesser extent in this debate, but which I think deserves much more attention. International work carried out in this field. As the Council of State has noted in its letter to the Health Committee, work is being done by the European Medicines Agency, the Nordic Council of Ministers, in meetings of the WHO, and as the Council of State just mentioned, in EEA cooperation, and this is of great importance. I have been following the international work of the Council of State on medicines for many years. It concerns the prices of medicinal products, in terms of transparency, for which the Council of State has committed itself individually to work, and the work of antibiotics. Much of this work is of an international nature in our age. I remember this work in the Ministry of Health and Care with respect and satisfaction. It should include those parts of the opposition which are not particularly concerned with international cooperation. As we approach summer, I have to say that over and over again in the last year, I have noticed that the opposition has helped to build an anxiety and fear culture in Health-Norway. The situation in Health-Norway is consistently good. A picture has been drawn of food supplies, of emergency preparedness, of ambulance preparedness, and so now this – a completely unnecessary proposal for a representative. If there's knowledge you're applying for, it would actually have sent an e-mail.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e705	In my post I did not criticize the Workers' Party for promoting these proposals. What I reacted strongly to was that the representative of Morland concluded his first post saying that because the government parties do not vote for these ten proposals, we have assumed a great responsibility. What Mr Mørland really says is that the government parties – because we do not vote for these proposals in the Chamber now – are endangering patients' lives and health. That is what I wanted the representative of Mørland to regret, because that is not right. I take a great distance from that kind of accusation from this pulpit. At the end of this month we get the report we have now been waiting for a while. There I expect to see clear, good measures. I am not surprised if the Directorate for Health himself is making proposals that are far-reaching in keeping with what is in the proposal for a representative and the proposals there. But think of standing here on the pulpit of the Storting and say that because we do not vote for the Labour Party's proposal, we are endangering patients' lives and health! I find it regrettable that the representative of Morland does not correct the impression he made in his first post.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e712	In this case, the Storting is actually quite a few. I think so. But the debate has been characterized by a lot of rhetoric and very little politics. That's what I'm sorry for. It is, of course, the role of the opposition to bring about important issues that can influence Norwegian policy, for treatment in Stortinget. It does not always mean all the world that all proposals are adopted, but this is an important role. We have had a good hearing in the committee, which I believe the whole committee was concerned with being sensible, and which gave us new and good knowledge. Those who came to the hearing were actually happy that the Storting put this matter on the agenda. When one hears the debate here today, one should think that it was enough by e-mail. It isn't. It seems to me that I'm minimizing the Great Britain's work in a very important political area – a very important area for patients and for preparedness in the country. I want to distance myself from some part of what has been said about this. I think these are important proposals. Regardless of whether the proposals are now downgraded, I think it was a good thing to have a discussion in Stortinget, and we have done a good job in the committee and with the hearing. So until this case is an example that the opposition is based on fear and anxiety that's out there: I can't believe what I'm hearing. I'm guessing that about the supply of food was the centerpart mint. I've heard that argument repeatedly. Now it's so that there was a big bundle guerrilla that raised this case. Are they also built on fear and anxiety in the people? When there have been an increase from 200 deficiency situations in 2016 to 1,400 today, people think for themselves. It's actually referred to in the media. It's actually people who are wondering what we're doing politically to secure their situation. It's patients who come to us and ask what we can do for them. Then it's reasonable that we do something in Stortinget, and that we have a debate and discuss possible proposals. That's what we've been doing today. I actually didn't think the debate was good, although that's what I should have said in this post. The case is important, and the case is good, and I hope that in the future we can have a somewhat more constructive approach to these important areas of the Biggest.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e725	The representative Tellef Inge Mørland has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e730	When the representative of the Government Party of the Left calls this ‘an entirely unnecessary proposal for a representative’, it may be an expression of how you look at the opposition. He says that you can send an e-mail if you are applying for knowledge. Yes, we've been searching for knowledge, now we're looking for action. Now we're looking for action. To the representative, Mr Bekkeword: Of course, it is not the case that the government parties must vote in favour of our proposals, but I note that there are no government parties on the table. What I'm looking for is that we can get to grips with this situation, and that we come up with measures. Of course, the government must be able to come up with its actions if they have other alternatives on the table, but I see that now it is still waiting and seeing, waiting for the report to come. But then I hope, when that report comes, that you will make sure to take all the reasonable measures that you need to be there, as soon as possible, so that there is no unnecessary delay, because this is a situation that is urgent. So I'm glad that when we talk outside this room, I think we're politically more agreeable than what this debate has expressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e739	I agree with Mr Toppe: this has not been a good debate. It is largely due to the fact that the proposers do not take into account that this is something we have taken too far. But we agree that this is an international problem. We have discussed, both the Council of State and other representatives of the Government Parties, that some have been done. We've done a lot, but that's not enough, and it's going to do more. This is why a long time ago work was started to look at new measures. But I also want to talk about what we've done that has been stupid, that has been wrong, and that has helped make the situation worse than it could have been. The Minister of Health may not be satisfied with everything I say right now, but we need to learn from things that could have been done differently. I believe that in some cases we have a bit too tough price policy in Norway. Norway is price-leading – not at the top, but at the bottom. We should be proud of that because it makes us get to use expensive medicines faster. But when we grow so violently that we have to be so good at price, it makes Norway a much less attractive place to launch new products, and it can affect. I am very pleased that we have ratified MEDICRIME, the falsification directive. Falsified drugs are now greater than drugs on the income side of the Mafia in Europe – they steal and falsify drugs and put them into the legal chain, and therefore a great deal of work has come on counterfeiting – and are very problematic for the supply chain and strongly contributing to the current situation. But I want to do everything I can to make sure that the drugs we actually use are real and real and good goods. It's also a driver. Brexit has not been the subject of the debate. Brexit complicates the pharmaceutical market enormously. The uncertainty that has now been created — and there is still uncertainty — makes manufacturers, which relate very much to the United Kingdom, uncertain where they are to be produced and where they are to be stockpiled. Generic medicines are very low in Norway. We have an offensive price model, the step price model, which makes the price drop fast, but also makes it so cheap that it's not interesting to have it in Norway. I disagree with the Medical Products Agency. They say producers have not pulled out, but several of the major generic suppliers are not available in Norway because we have so low prices of generics. The main actors in generic medicinal products will not be in Norway. Very many of these deficiencies are generic drugs. If you look at the figures, the situation is better in Norway than in Sweden, for example. It hasn't come in yet. Sweden is a good country, but we're better than them. If you look at the actual defects, it's so that skilled doctors and skilled pharmacists make sure that they get the drugs they need, most of the patients. So it sometimes fails. The situation is critical all over the world, but we actually have quite good control in Norway, and I think we should be pleased about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e758	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e774	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to three rows of replies be given after contributions by members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e783	The NHO has a project called Ringer in the water. It's about something completely different than dementia. The project is about getting people back into work after falling out of work for various reasons. It has a huge impact on the employee who gets a job, but also on more people. It's about the family around, about the company and about society. There's the parallel to the good of dementia. About 80,000 people are affected by dementia in Norway. Most of them are old, but quite a few are young people of pre-employment age, some have resident children, and many have a partner who is in full-time employment. How well we build the offer around a person with dementia has great consequences for the hundreds of thousands of people who are affected. A good offer can create good ringing effects – Rings in the water – but a bad offer can be a negative spiral with worn-out relatives who may not be able to stand in the job anymore. One patient can quickly become two. The number of people with dementia is expected to double over the next 20 years. Many of these should stay at home long after they have been diagnosed. In order to succeed, much needs to be done: freedom technologies, well-suited housing and adapted healthcare. Daily activity offers are a good example of this, although it could actually be a hot activity offer, because it might as well happen at night or at weekends. Such offers for people with dementia shall contribute to the creation of a rich and dignified everyday life for people, and that type of relief is absolutely necessary for partners and relatives. An overall committee stresses the importance of taking into account the diversity of people with dementia and the high age range among people with the diagnosis. Because there's the same age difference between a 30-year-old and a 60-year-old as it is between a 60-year-old and a 90-year-old. There is agreement that a municipal day-time activity offer obligation is introduced from 2020, but the Workers’ Party, the Centre Party and the SV do not consider it appropriate to wind up the grant scheme when it is far from reaching the target of the number of day-to-day activity sites in the dementia plan. When the grant was created by the red-green government, a need was calculated for 9,200 places. At the end of 2018, only 3,960 posts are operated under the grant scheme. Here the government and opposition parties separate layers. There is a need for a power cap for dementia care in the years to come, and then we can't liquidate the good tools we have. The opposition therefore proposes to continue the grant until the objective of the dementia plan has been achieved. With that, I recommend the setting in the case, and I take up the minority's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e796	The representative, Tuva Moflag, has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e801	As average life expectancy increases by many good years for most of us, more and more people are getting dementia. There are more people with dementia, just because there are more older people. The Institute of Public Health has estimated that about every four of today's 60-year-olds will have dementia in a few years. There are many factors that help us determine whether we're developing dementia. Lack of schooling in youth, high blood pressure, obesity, smoking, depression, lack of physical activity, social isolation and diabetes are among the major causes of dementia. Good public health and an active life can prevent and reduce the number of people who develop dementia. Norway is one of the world’s earliest countries to develop a national plan for dementia. The aim of Demenplan 2020 is to develop a more dementia-friendly society, where demente is included and can participate in society. Demenplan 2020 announced that the government would provide a statutory obligation for municipalities to provide day-to-day activities for residents. So this is the draft law we are dealing with today. Municipalities can offer many different offers. Some municipalities offer an activity friend together with the National Association for Public Health. Rusleven is another measure, while Inn on the tune and Off on the field, which is behind the agricultural industry and the reindeer industry, may be other offers. Municipalities can adapt and choose which activities to receive. It is important that the offers are adapted to the demented and their situation. It is the individual's need to govern the offer given to the demented person. In particular, immigrants and Sami have challenges other than ethnic Northmen. However, the professional background and other cultural differences should also help control the offers received by the demente. In other words, the municipalities are given a great deal of freedom of action, even if the daily activity offer is prescribed by law. Local politicians are constantly afraid that new orders will not be followed up with government grants or state payments, if you like. The grant schemes we have today provide for 8,800 day-to-day activities. Unfortunately, the municipalities have not used the arrangements to the extent desired. At the end of last year, less than 4000 demented day-time activities were allocated from the grant. That government has extended the grant rate from 30 p.m. to 50 pst. to contribute to a faster increase in supply. When the daily activity offer is required by law, the grant to the municipalities will be included in the free income, which will provide less administration and administration for both the country and the municipality. Earmarked grants are intended to be used in a build-up phase and are not intended to be a permanent scheme for services provided by municipalities with an obligation to offer their inhabitants. In 2019, the allocation from the State to the municipalities is 348 million. kr. This grant is planned to be included in the 2020 Municipal Framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e816	I am proud that today we are adopting the government's proposal to legislate activities for residents with dementia. This has been an important matter for the Progress Party for a long time, and it is simply nice to be able to stand here today and say that it is now a reality. Because it is a big problem that people with dementia have not been given enough opportunity for life development, quality of life, in all the municipalities of the country. According to the Institute of Public Health, there are today between 80 000 and 104 000 dentures in Norway. Today, municipalities are responsible for providing a meaningful day-to-day activity offer. Unfortunately, we see that many municipalities either do not have such an offer or that the offer is too bad. People with dementia also have a demand for activation and a meaningful life. Lack of activity offers has also resulted in a disproportionate burden on relatives to take care of their loved ones. Nearly half of the overall care tasks for demented people are being carried out by relatives today. Therefore, the introduction of a public activity offer will be a major relief for relatives who are currently struggling to give their closest dignity and joy. Over 25 pst. of those who turn 60 to 2021 will become demented during life. The number of people with dementia will double towards 2040. It should no longer be necessary to move to another municipality to get a good offer. The party of progress has fought in government to activate all the dentures and get a meaningful everyday life. Now we have been given an opportunity to legislate an activity offer in all municipalities throughout the country. This is an important victory for a large group of people who are only limited in their ability to fight for their own interests. The postal code should now finally no longer determine your quality of life.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e825	Demenplan 2020 estimated that there were more than 70,000 people in Norway with dementia, but new figures from the Public Health Institute estimate that this figure is now increasing to between 80,000 and 104 000. For demographic reasons, the number of people with dementia is expected to double by 2040. The question is whether we are prohibiting this. My answer to that is no. Today, almost half of all care activities are related to users, and relatives of people with dementia often experience extensive care responsibilities over a long period of time. A daily supply of activity for elderly people with dementia is important to him or her, but it is equally important for the relatives. We know today that there is a great need to develop more day-to-day activities. The centre party has been a driver for a stronger expansion for many years. It was on the basis of a proposal from the Central Party that we had the majority decision to make it a statutory obligation for the municipalities to offer this, and it was on the basis of a proposal from the Central Party that the rate of subscription was raised from 30 pst. to 50 pst. So today it's a brand day – when Stortinget finally adopts a law, as the Center Party is interested in. But we're not content with it as it appears in the proposition, because we're concerned that lawmaking is done without the provision being fully funded. We're concerned that the government won't continue the ear-marked back-up scheme for creating day-time activities. The reason for this is simple: we are not in the vicinity of satisfying the need for daytime activities. According to the government itself, there was a need for more than 9 000 day activities for home-based people with dementia at the time of its creation in 2012, but since then, the number of people with dementia in Norway has increased from 70,000 to up to 100000. The need today is much higher, but it is only created at the lower edge of 4,000 places, that is, far less than half relative to the need. Disappearing will make it difficult for municipalities to create new places in line with their needs. The centre party has previously made a proposal for a mandatory daytime activity site for home builders with dementia as the next big senior bet, but we were swept down into the Storting when it spelled it. We support the proposition that a legal offer for patients with a targeted diagnosis should be made. It can be seen as special, but it is necessary – when we know about the large scale.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e838	The number of people with dementia is likely to double towards 2040. This means that health and care services need to be better organised in order to meet the needs of people with dementia and their relatives, including those with dementia. the possibility of living an active life with good experiences and mastery in everyday life. A good daily activity offer to residents with dementia contributes to increased quality of life, and it may expose the need for hospitalisation. It will also relieve relatives, who often have a heavy burden of caring for their loved ones. The government therefore considers it necessary to impose an obligation on municipalities to offer daily activities to residents with dementia. I Prop. 66 L for 2018-2019 we follow up the Storting's request to legislate on such an obligation – applicable from January 2020. The daily activity offer to persons with dementia is not a uniform service. Municipalities will have a great deal of freedom in the organisation and design of the offer. It can therefore be adapted to local conditions, culture and history, preferably in cooperation with voluntary organisations, stakeholders or local actors. The tunnel, where a farm is used as the arena for daytime activities, is a very good example of this. People with dementia are a complex group, with a high age, lifestyle and level of function. In order for the daily activity offer to be made meaningful, the municipality must take into account the needs and interests of the individual. I have noticed that the minority of the Committee believes that the earmarked grant scheme should be continued until adequate provision of day-to-day activities is established and that the obligation to offer day-to-day activities should be fully financed by the State. The State has helped to build up day-to-day activities since 2012, and it is gratifying that 333 municipalities have been granted funds through the grant scheme. The grant scheme has been a piece of work between the State and the municipality, and this government increased the grant rate for new places from 30 p.m. this year. to 50 pst. However, it has long been known that municipalities should be given an obligation to have this offer, and then it is no longer natural for the government to administer a grant. Instead, municipalities will receive grants through their free revenues. This implies less government for the state and that the individual municipality must not apply for the funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e855	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e860	One of Sylvi Listhaug's state councils and the government's major investments in the elderly, or at least experimental initiatives, is government-funded care for the elderly. I wonder if the Council of State can explain why a government grant scheme will be set up to benefit all municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e865	This is because the municipalities that are trying to finance care for the elderly have a scheme where the whole sector is financed from state resources. This offer has been made since 2012. We see that many municipalities have used the opportunity to build up the offer, but it is therefore a part that is behind it. That is why we believe the right thing now is that the municipalities get this obligation from January, that the funds come into the framework, and that they then use the money that comes into the framework to create offers. There are many municipalities that have done a lot of good on this. I've previously been a Minister of Agriculture and I've seen some of these Inn on the tunet offers, which are absolutely amazing, that suit too many people who may have grown up on a farm and have good memories of it, and can take part in the life they remember from years back. The important thing is that municipalities are now allowed to accommodate locally for what is right for them.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e877	There is nothing to prevent the municipalities from making arrangements locally to have a varied offer, even if you receive a subsidy from the state, so I did not fully understand the answer. The point is that the grant goes away despite being 5,000 places away from reaching the target in the dementia plan. As the Council of State itself stated: there are about 80,000 people who have dementia today. We can expect a double in the next 20 years. The Government is now withdrawing the grant scheme for day-to-day activities. The government has not made a real commitment to GPS tracking for people with dementia. The Government has voted against the establishment of security sites. So what I'm asking is, what is the Council of State Sylvi Listhaug having to offer the 80,000 people with dementia and their relatives in the years to come?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e884	There's been a lot in recent years to build up the offer for people with dementia. For example, at an early stage, you've had intern schools, you've given knowledge to those who get the disease, so they can learn to live with it. The use of technology has become much more widespread now than it was before. There are security areas in some municipalities. It's been in Oslo for many years, I remember from my time as a city council there, and it was a very popular arrangement. There is nothing in the way that the municipalities can establish it. And when we first think about it, the Labour Party is now running quite a number of Norwegian municipalities and has all the possibilities to fulfill these things. Then it's like when you include this grant in the framework transfers to the municipalities, you don't take away the money, you put it into the framework. Therefore, this money comes to the municipalities with the full opportunity to spend it on just these offers.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e891	The centre party is concerned about the financing of this, that it will not be enough – that there will be an obligation for municipalities to offer, but that it will be accompanied by money from the state. That is also why we have put forward proposals on that very point, because it is a commitment for the Central Party when we propose to legislate on that obligation. I hear the government says that the money is now going into the frame, and that's clear, but our question is what kind of money is being put into the frame. Is it based on the assumption that you're going to have 9,000 places, or you're going to have to raise it, given that there are even more older people with dementia? And then what kind of extra bet is put in? Be 50 pst. with the new places, or is there only the means of the day planned to be added to the frame? It might be a good thing if the Council of State said something about it, because it's not detailed in the proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e898	It's like always talking about such funds, it's something that's put into the annual budgets, and presented to the Stortinget, but there's no doubt that this is an area where the government has invested a lot of money, and which we're also going to invest in. So at least I can promise the representative Top that I'll be on everything I can to make this a high priority problem. We know that there are many out there who have a huge care problem with their neighbors, who are related to people with dementia, and who need to have a relief offer for their loved ones, so that they get a breathing room in their everyday lives. It's also about those who have dementia getting out a little bit, being with others and not just sitting at home. So this is important to prevent loneliness, it's important to provide content and quality in everyday life, it's important to relieve relatives, and therefore this matter is important for the government to continue to invest in. Then we get back to the budgets as usual in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e907	The queue change has now been completed. The following speakers also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e914	I allow myself to arrest the representative Larsen – and to the extent also the Council of State Sylvi Listhaug – because the increase in the subsidy rate to which the government now refers was actually adopted against the votes of the government parties. It was last year that the opposition, with the support of the Christian People's Party before they joined the government, received support that the grant rate should be increased from 30 p.m. to 50 pst. The reality is that the then government would not increase the grant, and the current government is shutting down the grant scheme, despite the fact that we are 5,000 places away from achieving the goal of the dementia plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e919	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e935	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to three rows of replies be given after contributions by members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note. Stine Renate Håheim gets the floor instead of the chairman of the saga, Tore Hagebakken.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e946	The Committee has examined Prop. 91 L for 2018-2019, on changes to the Code on Disease Protection. The government has promoted several changes to the law because the experience with the law suggests that clarifications and amendments to certain provisions have been needed. The protection of infectious diseases is one of the most important tasks of society. 100 years ago, an average of 10 pst died. of all children, including due to infectious diseases. Cholera, typhus, lepra, tuberculosis and diphtheria came into waves and killed many. Now, almost all the dreaded childhood diseases are almost eradicated, thanks to persistent work by public authorities. The protection of infectious diseases has been an unconditional success. An overall committee agrees that the new major challenge is antibiotic resistance. If we don't stagnate it, it will lead to higher morbidity and mortality in the population. It is therefore important that the legislation in the field of infectious diseases is updated. The Committee supports the need for a patient to be obliged to follow information and infectious disease guidance in order to prevent harm to others. The Committee also supports the possibility of taking urgent decisions on compulsory isolation, but we in the Labour Party would stress that forced use must be limited to all necessary cases. A majority of the Committee considers it reasonable to legislate on the four requirements of the use of infectious diseases control measures. This is what we believe makes the law clearer both for health professionals and for most people. We in the Workers' Party are concerned that the resource situation in the local protection system is too poor, and we believe that, in addition to the changes that have been made, a national action plan for the protection of infectious diseases outside health institutions is needed. In addition, many consultation responses have been received indicating that the government’s proposal does not adequately clarify the division of roles between the Directorate of Health and the Institute of Public Health. We in the Workers' Party believe it is problematic that there is a lack of clarity in responsibilities and tasks between two state agencies to deal with serious crisis situations, and that the government should propose a clearer solution. I'm taking up the suggestions the Labour Party is behind, together with the Center Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e961	The representative, Stine Renate Håheim, has drawn up the proposals of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e966	Children are no longer vaccinated against tuberculosis in Norway. Although tuberculosis has been eradicated from this country, we should not go further than to Lithuania to find a country where infection is more common. At present, all 114 countries face challenges with tuberculosis. Immigration, tourism, more and more travel in the population and general globalisation therefore present us with challenges we did not have in the past. Imports of tuberculosis infection could lead to an epidemic potentially affecting all children and young people who are no longer vaccinated. The Party of Progress is therefore pleased that the Government is now proposing increased testing and control requirements for people from countries with a high incidence of tuberculosis or other common infectious diseases, as well as for those who have stayed in those countries over time. Persons who may constitute a serious risk of transmission of infectious diseases in their work shall be tested. This applies in particular to health professionals, teachers and others who have close contact with children. The legislative proposal will ensure that the requirement of testing is extended to persons from risk countries travelling to Norway to work as self-employed persons, hire workers, health and school workers or au pairs. Only among au pairs have we had 77 cases of tuberculosis infection between 2008 and 2017. The results of such a health study must now be available before accession. It is important to stress that strengthening the preparedness for infection does not only concern tuberculosis, although this is perhaps the most pressing issue today. In general, legislative changes improve the level of preparedness for infectious diseases of general concern. For example, if a foreign agency in the health sector is infected with multi-resistant tuberculosis, the consequences could be disastrous. For this very reason, it is so important that the Party of Progress in the Government is now ensuring that the requirements are strengthened against several groups presenting a risk and ensuring the necessary control. The amendment ensures that a number of gaps in today’s preparedness for infection protection are covered. No human being has the right to infect others with serious diseases. Persons who carry serious and contagious diseases and who do not wish to set themselves up to stop their spread must be forced to isolate themselves in order to protect society and vulnerable groups. The amendment of the legislation ensures that gaps in the legislation, which has today made it difficult to impose enforcement measures that have obviously been necessary to ensure that the population is protected from infection in the most serious cases. This is a change that could potentially lead to dramatic improvements in the preparedness for infection in extreme cases. More cross-border travel and immigration allow diseases that have been eradicated in Norway to create epidemics here to land. The government and the Progress Party are now making sure that we have the means to combat this serious threat to public health.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e979	We are going to deal with changes in infectious diseases laws, and the Central Party is behind these proposals, but we also have some changes in areas that need to be improved. Previous speakers talk about the importance of infectious diseases. It's one of the most important responsibilities of society, said the case-speaker, and the representative of the Progress Party addressed this with infection across borders and between people. I joined Bergen in the early 2000s when there was a Giardia epidemic where 1,400 people were infected from the waterworks. Today I see in Bergen's Official Journal that a one-year-old has died on Askøy, suspecting that it is due to infection from the waterworks. When I arrived at Stortinget in 2013, it was right into the big flu pandemic, a serious situation for the country. It is well because of this that these changes in infectious diseases laws have come into place, as it has been shown that there is a weakness in the structure of infectious diseases. This is highly about life and death and about the country's preparedness, and it is a work that has received too little attention because one takes it for granted – a belief it must work, but that is often not the case. This challenges health services in municipalities and hospitals for the most extreme. If this doesn't work, it'll have serious consequences. What we're dealing with in the proposal is what came in from the infectious agents, which means that the resource situation of their municipalities is challenging, and they think that the work on infectious diseases can be reduced in this way. It is a serious message, and we must take it seriously when the infectious agents themselves notify it. They're asking us to lift the municipal infectious disease work. This is the background to our proposal in the position to draw up a national action plan for non-health care. And I'll also show you the play from the Medical Association, which takes up the problem with the role of the local doctor. The local doctor has a great responsibility, he is responsible for preparedness and infection protection in the municipality. The medical association says that the role of the local doctor is challenging, one needs a strengthening, and we note that this must be seen in conjunction with the alerting of the evaluation and the action plan for the fixed scheme. We must not forget the local doctor. We talk a lot about the decision, but we also need to talk about the municipality doctor. We also support the proposal for a better distribution of roles between the Directorate of Health and the Institute of Public Health.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e992	The protection of infectious diseases consists of a balance between the freedom of the individual and the need for protection of society. It is therefore intended to protect both individuals and society. The government is proposing changes based on current law. A unanimous committee supports the proposal, which I appreciate. It is proposed to lay down the legal conditions to be considered when implementing disease protection measures. It was pointed out in the hearing that it should be clearly stated that a proportionality assessment of the disease protection measures is to be carried out. I believe that such a rule is important for the legal certainty of the individual. Therefore, the government proposes this as a supplement to the provision. Persons with infectious diseases are obliged to receive guidance on infectious diseases. The rules must be clear – both for the treating doctor and the infected person. The Ministry proposed to clarify these obligations, and most hearing bodies supported the proposal. It is very important that individuals act in such a way that infection does not continue, and information is central to the prevention of infection. The government also proposes to legislate the individual’s obligation to follow the IPD. If the guidance is not followed, the consequence may be forced isolation and treatment. Amendments to the rules on the use of coercive measures were also proposed. This involves immediate isolation, faster procedures in the infectious agent with clear deadlines and access to medical treatment or isolation as long as required. The aim is to provide the individual with the best possible care, while at the same time ensuring the protection of society. I think there is reason to point out that these rules are rarely in use, but they are of great social importance. It was proposed to clarify the responsibilities and tasks of several authorities. Most hearing bodies support these proposals, but many are sceptical about the proposal to extend the responsibilities of regional health establishments. I therefore propose to solve this in a different way than through a legislative change. The roles of the Public Health Institute and the Health Directorate are clarified in the law, while the preparedness work is clarified in instructions and mandates laid down by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e1005	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e1010	I have a question about one of the last state councils in their speech, and for which we have received feedback on concerns to the committee. It is precisely the proposal in the proposal on clarification of responsibilities and tasks between the Directorate for Health and the Institute for Public Health. There is insufficient clarification and there is a problem with the services. Many report that there is a ambiguity in responsibilities and tasks between the two levels of responsibility to deal with serious crisis situations. They think the government should propose a more clear solution. Now I hear the Council of State say a little about it in its article, but I feel the need to get a clarification. If it fails here, there may be great consequences if one does not have a clear sense of role and sharing of responsibilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e1015	The relationship between the Health Directorate and the Public Health Institute in dealing with crises has been ensured through instructions and cooperation between the Health Directorate, the Public Health Institute, the Straw Liver and the Emergency Committee on Biological Events. Instructions for cooperation between the Directorate for Health, the Institute for Public Health and the Directorate for Radiation Protection and Nuclear Safety were established by the Ministry with effect from 1 January this year. The mandate and composition of the preparedness committee against biological incidents with advisers, as well as coordination at regional level, were established by the Ministry of Health after government treatment on 18 February this year. In everyday life, this is a small problem of division of labour. Most of the infection protection work at state level is carried out by the Public Health Institute, but the clarifications made this year help to clarify the situation in a crisis management.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e1022	And then I'm going to record that there's a different approach from the ministry than what we've been given from outside the hearing agencies, which is more worrying than what the council says. I'm just taking note of this. But we're going to follow up on this. I only have one more question, which concerns something else. It's another call that we got that's also important to record – it's about the infective work in the municipalities. It is serious when the infectious agents themselves are warning that the work on infectious diseases in the municipalities is being prioritised because of the economic situation and that the area is not given priority. We are now making a proposal for a separate action plan on this. In fact, the Central Party proposed two years ago, when we had a proposal for action against antibiotic resistance, but it was also downgraded at that time. The Council of State does not see the need to raise the burden of infectious diseases in the municipalities, and what will the government do to achieve this?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e1030	When it comes to creating an action plan, it will essentially be to write down what is already in the legal and regulatory framework. What is important now is to put pressure in the municipalities on those who are in the municipalities to take this seriously and give priority to it. I think the community merger can actually make a positive contribution here because you get a larger trade union environment to be able to work with it. There have been earlier action plans and strategies in this area, by 2011. There has been a lack of management anchoring, which is the main problem in the protection of infection in many municipalities. That problem will not be solved with a new action plan. The Public Health Institute also has a number of recommendations in the field of infectious diseases, and the Health Directorate has professional guidelines that municipalities should follow to a greater extent than they do today. Nor will an action plan increase their commitment and use there. These are the things that need to be addressed in the municipalities, and this will not solve an action plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e1039	Then the line chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e1044	I am not in the Health and Care Committee, but I take the floor because I heard the representative Kjersti Toppe mention the situation on Askøy, where there is most likely a waterborne infection in the municipality. It may be that there is a connection between this and that a child has died, but we know that too little about it, and to mention it as if someone has been killed – I would not use that term, as Toppe did, but enough about it. Top is from Bergen and knows the situation in the Blackdict and the bacterial outbreak that was there, and the reason why I took the word is that the waterborne contamination is also important to discuss in this context. Some of the major outbreaks in the world have actually been in Østersund, in Skellefteå and in Bergen. Now we might see a slight outbreak on Ashkoy, and that's why municipal water treatment is very important. Waterborne contamination can potentially affect many. It is worth remembering that water and sewerage management is a fee-funded local service, and it is the municipalities that have a great responsibility to have up-to-date facilities and to have barriers to outbreaks. Therefore, local cooperation and competence, following the types of treatment facilities you have, is a very important task for municipalities. It is also important for the Storting and for the State to have different laws and cooperation updated, but in the context of having got a different type of weather, a different type of climate, these challenges are likely to increase in the next few years. For this reason, it is also important that we cooperate across – across the Health and Care Committee, across the Energy and Environment Committee – both here in the Stortingen and in other governmental bodies to prepare. One of the things that has happened in recent years is that one has set up a national water guard to assist the municipalities when such types of events occur, such as: on Ashøy, so that one comes out with information as soon as possible. Much of this can also be traced through social media, in fact, one can see where in the municipality these outbreaks happen. Skellefteå and Østersund had better capacity than we have traditionally had in Norway, because they had information departments that were trained on this, but we have become much better at it also in Norway, after, among other things. The island. So here are a lot of actors working together to secure that preparedness. That's what I wanted to remind ourselves, that here we're all dependent on cooperating, and especially the municipalities, on what to use that fee for. If one can also use it for more informational capacity, in fact, one of the discussions we have to have.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e1055	The following speakers also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e1060	It was to the last speaker: I was unsure if I had said something wrong from the Stortingen speaking chair when I mentioned what has happened on Askøy. What I would like to clarify is that when it comes to the one-year-old who died on Askøy, the municipality suspects infection from the waterworks, and both police and county doctors will now look at the case, according to Bergen's Official Journal. Or I'll share with the representative Ketil Kjeseth his commitment to clean water and water and sewerage, and we'll also get back to this in the public health report, which we'll deal with next week, where we, among other things. proposes a sectoral law on water and sewerage.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e1067	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President shall propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 7-10 is treated as a single agent. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e1118	I will take matters together, but explain briefly all the matters, so the Storting may have a bit of an overview of what is actually happening out there. There is an overall committee which supports the ratification of the agreement between Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway and Sweden on cooperation in competition matters, as well as amendments to the Competition Act that align the law with the new agreement. The Nordic countries have had agreements since 2001. The purpose of this Agreement is to contribute to the more effective enforcement of competition rules, including: by removing obstacles to cooperation in enforcement between competition authorities of the parties. Following the agreement of 2001, there was only the possibility to exchange information, including confidentiality-related information, to which the competition authorities already had access. Unlike the agreement of 2001, this agreement also allows the Nordic competition authorities to obtain information and to make evidence assurances on behalf of others. There is widespread trade between Nordic countries, and markets are often cross-border. Competition authorities in the Nordic countries have stated that in several cases there has been a problem that the possibilities for cooperation under the 2001 agreement have been inadequate. A new agreement with greater opportunities to cooperate across borders and to assist each other in clarifying issues where appropriate will therefore benefit all parties to the agreement, but perhaps particularly important for Norway, which is outside the EU. Then to the Free Trade Agreement between the EFTA States and Turkey. As a member of the EEA/EFTA delegation, I was present in Saðárkrókur when the Free Trade Agreement between the EFTA States and Turkey was signed at the EFTA Ministerial Meeting last year. Good negotiations are important which end up with important agreements in order to promote future trade and interaction. We have had a free trade agreement with Turkey, which dates back to 1991, and there was a need for a major revision of the agreement to bring the agreement to a level with the WTO and modern free trade agreements. The main objective of the new Free Trade Agreement is to stimulate increased trade and economic cooperation between the EFTA States and Turkey. The total trade in goods with Turkey was in 2017 at the lower edge of 14 billion. kr, of which Norwegian exports amounted to nearly 6 billion. kr. The main export products were gas, seafood, plastic raw materials, machinery and metals. The main import goods from Turkey are vehicles, machinery, electrical appliances, metal products, fruit and nuts. In the Agreement, the Parties reaffirm their obligations to principles of democracy, the rule of law, human rights and fundamental freedoms in accordance with the UN Charter and the UN Declaration of Human Rights. It is an overall committee that endorses the Free Trade Agreement between the EFTA States and Turkey and we believe that it will contribute to increased trade and value creation. The last case concerns the ratification of the Free Trade Agreement between the EFTA States and Ecuador, which was also signed in Saðárkrók. The trade between Norway and Ecuador is modest. In 2017, imports amounted to 223 million. kr and exports of 73 million. kr. Norway’s main export goods to Ecuador are fertilizers, while fruit, nuts and vegetables account for almost 80 pst. of the Norwegian imports from Ecuador. The purpose of this agreement is to contribute to increased trade between Norway and Ecuador. It will provide socio-economic gains for both countries and increase value creation. It may be worth noting that the agreement involves as favourable terms as the EU has in its free trade agreement with Ecuador. This has been an important objective of the negotiations, in order to ensure that Norwegian companies do not encounter disadvantages in the Ecuadorian market compared to competitors from EU countries. It appears from the proposal that the outcome of the negotiations responded in substance to the Norwegian expectations. In the case of agricultural products, Norway’s sensitive agricultural interests have been safeguarded, while Ecuador has improved and duty-free market access for the vast majority of agricultural products they export to Norway today. Finally, I would like to thank the Committee on Cooperation in all these matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e1152	Today, the Storting will decide whether to enter into the ratification of the Free Trade Agreement between Turkey and EFTA. At the same time, thousands of innocent people suffer in prisons in Turkey. Their crime is increasingly criticizing the regime. Their crime is to demand better rights for the country's women, workers and minorities. The crime is working for peace or simply belonging to one of the country's minorities. Because it is not the case that the country that jails most journalists in the world is a regime we don't like to compare ourselves to – no, the country that jails most journalists in the world, is Turkey, a member of the so-called community of values NATO and, therefore, a country with which all the parties in the nutrition committee, from the SV to the Progress Party, will renew the free trade agreement with EFTA. In recent years, Erdogan and his coalition of Islamists and ultranationalists have destroyed democratic institutions that were already too weak. It goes primarily against the Kurds and the People's Democratic Party, where over 5,000 of its members have been imprisoned. Voted rapporteurs were expelled and imprisoned, parliamentarians in prison. Prisoning elected peoples is detaining the people. But they are not alone in this: academics who sign a peace treaty are imprisoned – journalists, writers, and even doctors who give statements against war are imprisoned. Everyone in Turkey who says otherwise may be exposed. Voluntary organisations and media houses are being closed. This is what reporters without borders say about the state of freedom of expression in Turkey. Criticising the authorities and being employed in a so-called suspicious media house and contacting sensitive sources — or even using encrypted messaging services — provides a basis for prisoning journalists for terrorism in Turkey. The Association of Lawyers and the Association of Judges here in Norway says that Turkey can no longer be regarded as a state governed by law. In the position taken by the Business Committee, there is a lot about markets and economic opportunities – and there is one sentence about the human rights situation in Turkey. The Parties to the Committee shall act unanimously to ratify the Free Trade Agreement between Turkey and EFTA. Then my question is, have you thought about what kind of signals you send to the regime in Turkey? Have you thought about what kind of signals you send to all the journalists who are in prison today? Red is a supporter of dialogue and peaceful conflict resolution, even with the rulers we don't like at all, but to the extent that the Norwegian government has really tried to ask the country of NATO Turkey to respect democracy, stop the repression of Kurds and other oppositionals and withdraw from Syria, this has not led – on the contrary: the situation has become worse. At the previous local elections in Turkey, the opposition won important cities such as Ankara and Istanbul. The regime responded by trying to cancel the result – simply cancel the people's will. Therefore, red is not a follower of rewarding Turkey’s rulers with a single ratification of the free trade agreement with EFTA right now. The round of ratification of the free trade agreement between Turkey and EFTA is an opportunity for Norway and Europe to demonstrate that human rights are not something we use as a political instrument when it is appropriate. We have the opportunity to show that we actually care about human rights and democracy in a consistent way, even when NATO countries are violating these values. In line with the wish of our friends in the democratic opposition in Turkey, Red has intended to use this opportunity. We therefore vote against the ratification of the Free Trade Agreement between EFTA and Turkey. In addition, we are promoting a proposal that ratification be postponed until the government sees that the human rights situation has improved significantly and can come back to Stortinget with a report documenting this improvement. It's not until we can vote to ratify the agreement. And we are not alone in that – even in Switzerland, a similar proposal has been made. It will send a clear signal to Turkey: we are open to dialogue, we are open to ratify the agreement at a later date, but we will not reward an ever worse repression with a new trade agreement. I'll bring this up on Red's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e1169	The representative Seher Aydar has drawn up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e1174	Since the Committee has also affected the human rights situation in Turkey, I would like to say a little about it, although, of course, there is one matter under the responsibility of another: the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The situation of human rights and the position of the rule of law in Turkey is worrying. The government has expressed it repeatedly. We have strengthened support for the civil society in Turkey as the situation worsened, and in 2018 it was NOK 11.5 million that went to Turkish organisations working on human rights, and we give priority to actions on freedom of expression. It is also worth noting that the Norwegian Embassy prioritises its presence in legal proceedings against Turkish human rights defenders, parliamentarians and journalists. At the same time, through the Council of Europe, we have bound both Norway and Turkey to the European Convention on Human Rights and the European Court of Human Rights, so that we have a common basis of values and a set of standards that both Norway and Turkey have committed themselves to follow, which is the starting point for the dialogue that Norway has with Turkey. This was meant to be an orientation of what the government is doing. So, of course, I appreciate and believe it is right that a unanimous committee today recommends adopting the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e1185	No more people have asked for the word on the matter. 7, 8, 9, and 10.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e1197	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting. The statement by the Minister for Agriculture and Food on the matter No. 1 have been attached to send the Business Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e1208	The Committee had recommended that the Storting should take the following decisions:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e1271	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e1282	The law decision will be passed until a second time treatment is given in a later Storting meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e1391	The second paragraph of Section 8-2 of Section II is first worded. The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e1405	The rest of the II and the other Roman valleys are being razed.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e1415	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e1425	The law decision will be passed until a second time treatment is given in a later Storting meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e1434	A total of ten proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1-10, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the extension of the use of emergency stocks in order to prevent critical drug shortages in Norway.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to review the early warning legislation for the pharmaceutical industry in order to provide better time to find alternative solutions before a deficiency becomes serious.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to develop better analytical tools to provide a more detailed overview of the lack of medicinal products.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: «The Government is asked to cooperate with the Nordic and European authorities in order to ensure a stable supply of medicinal products.» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government, through its governance dialogue with health businesses, asks the government to ensure the capacity of the hospitals for the self-production of vital medicinal products in the event of a serious lack of medicinal products.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to facilitate the provision of public tenders for medicinal products with which more than one provider can be agreed, in cases where this is considered appropriate, with a view to reducing the vulnerability of supply security.’;» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to report annually on the preparation of medicinal products in the country.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government in cooperation with the municipalities to ensure that the primary health service builds up its preparedness and competence for the management of drug shortages.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking whether a basis for the rationalisation of medicinal products should be established in situations where there is or may be a shortage of important medicinal products.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government requests the review of the legislation on parallel imports and exports of medicinal products and proposes the necessary legislative and regulatory changes to ensure that parallel trade contributes as much as possible to the lack of medicinal products.’ These proposals and the recommendations of the Committee shall be replaced by an alternative vote. The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals. The Committee had recommended that the Storting should do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e1513	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, from Tuva Moflag on behalf of the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government requests the continuation of the ear-marked pre-arrangement for the creation of day-to-day activities for home-building people with dementia until a defensive provision of day-to-day activities is created in the municipalities in line with Demenplan 2020’. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that the legalisation of municipalities’ obligations to provide day-to-day activities to home-building people with dementia is fully financed.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e1562	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e1572	The law decision will be passed until a second time treatment is given in a later Storting meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e1581	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, from Stine Renate Håheim on behalf of the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a national action plan for the protection of disease outside the health institutions’. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to the Storting in an appropriate manner with proposals for a division of roles between the Directorate of Health and the Institute of Public Health to clarify responsibilities and tasks in crisis situations related to infectious diseases’.» The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e2194	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e2204	The law decision will be passed until a second time treatment is given in a later Storting meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e2213	The Committee had recommended that the Storting should do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e2334	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e2344	The law decision will be passed until a second time treatment is given in a later Storting meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e2353	During the debate Seher Aydar has presented one proposal on behalf of Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The ratification of the EFTA-Turkey Free Trade Agreement is postponed until the human rights situation in Turkey has improved significantly. When the Government considers that the human rights situation in Turkey has improved significantly, the Government will return to the Storting with the proposal for the ratification of the EFTA-Turkey Free Trade Agreement, accompanied by a report documenting the improvement in the human rights situation.»
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e2375	Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e2392	The Committee had recommended that the Storting should do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-07.ana.ud369e2415	There is no record available. Thus, today's maps are processed. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? – The meeting is over, and I want to love good Pentecost for everyone.
