ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e67	Representatives Lise Christoffersen, Marianne Haukland, Une Bastholm and Jorod Asphjell, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The Central Party’s Depositary Group has been informed that the permission granted to the representative of Liv Signe Navarsete has been withdrawn on 3 June. – This message is taken into account. The following called alternates are now taking their seat: For Akershus County: Anne Kristine Linnestad For the Province of Buskerud: Isselin Haugo For Hedmark County: Tone Merete Sønderud For the Mora and Romesdal counties: Tove-Lise Torve For the Nordic counties: Elizabeth Åsjord Sire and Grethe Andersen For Oslo: Solveig Skagvoll Foss and Geir Hågen Karlsen For the counties of Troms: Kari-Anne Opsal For Nord-Trøndelag: Gaute Børstad Skjervø and May Britt Lagesen For the Vestfold province: Renate Silver For Eastfold County: Thor Edquist A number of permit applications are available: from the Workers' Group on sick leave for the representative of the Tore Hagebakken from 3 June until further notice by the Workers' Group on sickness leave of the representative Anette Trettebergstuen from 3 June onwards and until further notice by the Workers' Group on sickness leave of the representative Jette F. Christensen on Monday 3 June by the Workers' Group on the Welfare Permit of the Representative, Martin Kolberg, on Monday 3 June from the Socialist Left Group on welfare leave of the representative Petter Eide from 4 June to 7 June Those applications are proposed to be examined without delay and accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first and second alternates of the Hordaland County, Leif Audun Sande and Linda Monsen Merkesdal respectively, there are applications for exemptions from meeting in Stortinget under the mandate of the representative Jette F. Christensen on 3 June, for reasons of well-being. From the first alternate of the State of Oppland, Stine Renate Håheim, there is an application for a waiver to meet in Stortinget on the 5th and 6th of June under the leave of the representative of Tore Hagebakken, for welfare reasons. From the first alternate of Oslo, Olivia Corso Salles, there is an application for an exemption from meeting in Stortinget under the representative Petter Eide's leave because of parental leave. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For the Province of Buskerud: Anne Sandum For the county of Hedmark: Per-gunnar Sveen and Tone Merete Sønderud For the province of Hordaland: Øystein Hassel For Uppland County: Stine Renate Håheim and Hilde Kristin Holtesmo For Oslo: Marian Abdi Hussein
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e234	Anne Sandum, Per-gunnar Sveen, Øystein Hassel and Stine Renate Håheim are present and will take the seat. The representative, Mr Wold, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e241	On behalf of Hans Andreas Limi, Per-Willy Amundsen, Solveig Horne, Morten Stordalen, Bård Hoksrud, Erlend Wiborg and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal in which the Stortinget is invited to decide that ‘Yes, we love this country’ is to be recognised by the Stortinget as Norway’s official national song.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e246	The representative, Petter Eide, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e251	On behalf of the representative Karin Andersen and the undersigned, I would like to make a proposal for the winding-up of the au pair scheme and for the strengthened rights of the au pairs in Norway until the scheme is terminated.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e256	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e274	As the President referred to, in Document 12 for 2015–2016, three draft constitutions on the protection of marine resources have been tabled. The aim of the constitutional proposals is, according to the proposers, to prevent the privatisation of fishing resources and to ensure that they belong to the community and benefit coastal communities. As rapporteur, I would first of all like to thank the Committee for its extensive and thorough work on these proposals. The Committee has even organised its own open seminar where these constitutional proposals have been the subject and where we have invited entrepreneurs to explain the advantages and disadvantages of adopting the proposals that have been put forward. Through this process, all of us who have been involved have been given good information and have a good background today to decide on the proposals. The three proposals put forward have partly the same motivation and justification and thus the Committee chooses to examine them in a common position. I expect those who are behind the various constitutional proposals will justify this in the debate itself. Since, as rapporteur-in-Office of the Council, I belong to the group in the Committee which wishes to reject all the proposals, I would like to justify that position. The current protection of resources is reflected in the Marine Resource Act, as stated in Section 2: ‘The wild marine resources are in the community of Norway’.» And Section 1 states that the management of the wild marine resources is to ‘ensure employment and settlement in coastal communities’. Let me show you that this has also been established by the Supreme Court, at the latest in the plenary sitting in Rt. 2013 page 1345, The Volstad case. The legal status in this area is therefore clear: wild fish belong to the community, and the private fisherman who has been allocated allowances does not have private ownership of them. The basic legislative proposals deal with very important fundamental issues relating to the ownership of marine resources. The issue of ownership is very central to any society, and our 1814 constitution became of great importance to social development. Private property rights were granted protection in the Constitution § 105, and there are many laws that provide for the use and disposal of land. It may be desirable to legislate on the right to marine resources in general, but I, the undersigned — and the minority in the Committee — believe that then all possible consequences of such a fundamental law should be thoroughly clarified and investigated. This is particularly the case where a constitutional provision is considered to be an obstacle to implementing desired changes to ordinary laws which could be very welcome to implement. I mentioned that the committee had organized a seminar. This was held at Stortinget on 12 March 2019. Through the seminar and the introductions, it became clear that the scope of the individual proposals is unclear and that they should be examined better before they can be adopted and incorporated into the Constitution. It is also an important point that several other natural resources, such as: the petroleum resources, have not been provided with such protection as is proposed here, and there may be good reason to consider the protection of these natural resources as well. This should then be possible in conjunction with a possible draft constitution if you want to go for it. I and the members of the Committee who do not now support any of the proposals are not, in principle, opposed to the proposals that have been put forward, but are therefore not prepared to vote in favour of the present basic legislative proposals. The current protection, as laid down in the Marine Resource Act, is sufficient to safeguard the rights of marine resources until proposals for constitutional protection, if any, are available that are sufficiently well established. It is recommended that none of the proposals be accepted by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e300	Let me start by thanking the rapporteur for a good job. Although there are different proposals for conclusion here, I can endorse a good part of what the rapporteur said about the importance of belonging to the community. But then the rapporteur said that the legal situation was clear after the so-called Volstad judgment in the Supreme Court in 2013. That matter is much from the background that three different constitutional proposals have now been put forward, at least what has been promoted by the Workers' Party's representatives, namely the fact that in the judgment there were nine against eight in the Supreme Court. It's not very clear. I dare say that I know that matter, because I was for a period of time suspended as a fisheries minister, when Helga Pedersen had maternity leave, and was given the opportunity to be the Council of State that provided the message of structuring the fishing fleet, precisely the case that made it a matter of the Supreme Court. We found and would clarify that fishing quotas could not be eternal, because we considered it a privatisation of fishing resources. I'm very pleased with the Supreme Court judgment, but it was one voice's overweight. We could have been in the situation where the justice system in Norway actually established new policies in Norway. That is the background to the need to obtain a fundamental law on the ownership of the Community's marine resources. It is the tradition of infinite times for it, and as has been said, it is evident in other laws. But the very large minority in the Supreme Court is evidence that we need a constitution, so that it may not become a majority in the future. There is much confidence in all that the rapporteur and, to the extent that the vote also expresses, the positive attitude towards the idea that the fishing resources cannot be privatised. That's the good reason. We can, for example: go to our neighboring country Iceland and see how this important natural resource works when it's privatized. We have to avoid that for the most part. Therefore, there is a little hope that the case-rapporteur says that he is not in principle opposed to being in the hands of the community, nor, in principle, against the fact that it is constitutionally binding. It was very positive that we got the seminar to which the rapporteur referred. I would like to congratulate the representative, Carl I. Hagen, who was in the control committee for a period of time. He expressed great sympathy with the proposals that had been submitted, and was the initiator of the fact that we got that seminar, which problematized some of the text in the three different proposals. That is why I will end here by challenging the case rapporteur and the representatives from the Right to agree to write a new constitution, which we are submitting for consideration in the next period, if that is the way it is agreed that we should make sure that the community owns the resources of the sea. We will take the initiative. I would like to take up with that the proposal that the Labour Party is behind in the vote. It is not possible to establish a constitutional majority for any of the three proposals. Although, of course, we have sympathy for the other two too, today's vote will be held. But I do hope that during this ageing period we will have a proposal in which those who do not want to vote now can also be satisfied with the wording so that we can get this in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e315	The representative, Dag Terje Andersen, has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e320	Why should we legitimize coastal people's rights to marine resources? The proposers believe that there is no doubt today about the legal status of the coastal population’s right to marine resources, as formulated by the Business Committee in the 2000–2001 session. The Committee then referred to joint comments from the Economic and Social Committee at the Innst. O. No 38 for 1998–1999, as follows: ‘The Committee will point out that the fishing resources belong to the Norwegian people, jointly. Therefore, there are basically no individuals or individual companies that can be granted eternal exclusive rights to harvest those resources free of charge, while others are excluded from fishing.» [[and serve]] The Committee was of the opinion that this should also be justified in the future. The Industry Committee further commented on this when the changes in the Marine Fisheries Act were dealt with in the Storting in connection with the Marine Resource Act, which states: ‘The wild marine resources are in the community of Norway’.» Fishing resources represent a national asset to be managed by the State on an annual basis by reference to the objectives assigned to it. The individual owner does not have the right to an allowance, even if he has the right to operate a particular fish. Allowances are normally allocated for one year, but may, if necessary, change during the year, for example: of resource considerations. Fishing, and the view of fishing as a national asset, have been supported by the plural in the Supreme Court in plenary session on eternal quotas, taking into Volstad-saka. It can be read about in Norwegian Legal Journal for 2013. The court ruled that fishing was the property of the community and that a private fish that had been allocated quotas did not have private ownership of them. Citation: ‘By Section 12 of the Act of Participation, fishing by trawls may be carried out only under special authorisation in accordance with the provisions laid down at all times by law or by law. This is an expression of the basic principle that fishing is not a right but is subject to authorisation by the public authority.’ The legal status is clear: Professional fishing requires a public-law exemption from the prohibition on fishing. It confirms that fishing belongs to the people of Norway. Since it is the most important renewable resource in Norway, and given the common perception that has taken place in the Storting, it is clear to us that the time now is ripe to legislate on the principle of people's right to fishing in Norwegian fishing zones. There has been an unfortunate development for several years with a system in which the turnover of allowances along with the shipping industry has been allowed to develop. Although this probably has not been the intention, the consequences have been that fishermen have had to pay dearly to get into the fish. In the centre party we have said that those who are forced into such a purchase in order to drive with the industry must come out of the mess without any harm. Therefore, as we understand the proposers, those who are affected should be able to depreciate the values for tax purposes, so that they are in zero over a 10- to 15-year period. They will then be able to be allocated free of charge to the coming generations of fishermen. This principle also includes the hoarding and use of other marine resources, as described in the Marine Resource Act § 2. The state is in charge of the administration. Fish and other users of marine resources allocated concessions and allowances are granted rights of use, and they come back to the community at retirement or by raising commercial activity. These are the proposals which I think should be based on a legal principle and be the basic way in which the state of Norway facilitates fishing. Why do we go to the Centre for Constitutional Amendment No? 41 and not proposal No. 23 or No 26? The proposal suggests different alternatives to placement, but it applies to § 111, first paragraph. It's a proposal with a high level of precision. First, it states that the ownership of the saltwater resources belongs to the people of Norway. Secondly, no private person can take over access to fishing as his own property, and that is why they cannot be marketing it. The draft basic law prohibits the concession or allowance hall. This, of course, does not happen to the income from the future housing of fish or other marine organisms, which – as it has always been – should be the owner’s property and can be sold in the usual way. Thirdly, the hausteret is an eternal resource for the Norwegian people. Thus, the proposal protects future generations if one generation sells the legacy silver. Fourth, this bill will put a stop to the ongoing glare with the purchase and sale of fish rights. Proposal No. 23 is a difficult proposal, because the genetic material is human common heritage and does not know any national boundaries. The Storing cannot decide. In the case of proposal No: 26, is it too weak – partly because the level of precision is too low, so that courts hardly find guidance in their possible controls as to whether the formal fishing laws given or given are constitutional or not. It is particularly crucial if basic laws on fishing are to be considered as legal sources and not just as a political question, that is, what has been referred to as declamatory. Proposal No. 26 goes beyond the proposal of the representative of Lundteg and others. The proposal contains a principle of subsidiarity, which is quite rightly central and important. At the same time, however, the proposal is designed in such a general way that there is no direct or decisive impact on future legal disputes. It leads to the conclusion that the proposal in Document 12:41 for 2015–2016 is best presented when applying new Section 111 on marine resources. Finally, I would like to address the proposal from the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e369	The representative of Nils T. Bjørke has taken up the proposal of the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e374	I see from the assembly that of those who were behind these three suggestions, there are only three who are left in the hall today, under the very treatment of them, and that is Per Olaf Lundtigen, Kjersti Toppe and myself. The treatment of these basic laws goes through long cascades, so the discussions we have today have a very limited impact on what is going to happen in the next round. That's the long lines we have to stick to here. What we have in front of us are three rather different constitutions. It is the cause that has perhaps engaged me most in recent years – to legislate that the sea belongs to the people, and that it will benefit the coastal communities. I just want to say something about the depths of the suggestions, how far back in time they actually go. The first proposal, that the sea belongs to the people, we can call it the general principle. The wording we use today in the marine resource laws, in the participating law and in the fish salad law – all three laws – stems from Frostatinget all the way back in the nineteenth century. Today's formula is almost identical to that of the Vikings in the nineteenth century formulated at Frostatinget. Legal historians call it an unbroken legal tradition. And the fact that Magnus Lagbøte incorporated this into the first Norwegian law of the 12th century, that it survived the Danish era, the Black Death, the Catholic Church, the Hanseatic Church, etc., and that this principle has lived through all these times, right into our time, shows something about how steadfast this principle, that the sea belongs to the community, is. So, it can never be privatized. In the first Treaty of the Law of the Sea of 1982, the fact that the sea is a resource, an arena that will never be privatized, was also frowned upon internationally. Why is this problematic? Or why is this being discussed in Norway? Well, it's because we have some overarching purpose paragraphs in the Norwegian laws that are not being complied with by practice. Most people here know how the fisheries policy turns out. He leads to dishes being collected on ever fewer hands and has a time horizon that may be infinite, which means that dishes to fish are inherited from generation to generation, that fewer and fewer people have ownership of fish, and that resources and power along the coast are being collected on ever fewer hands. I want to say that there is actually a snitch privatisation, or – in another way – that a person is pushing someone out of the fishing through capital, so that it is those who have access to a lot of capital who take over these rights. I guess there's a lot of people here with me. They also have one thing going on in the National Audit Office where they are going to look at how the state manages the fishing resources – whether this practice is actually contrary to the principle of the three laws governing Norwegian fisheries today. So there's a Volstad judgment, that Dag Terje Andersen was inside his post, which put this at the top, where the Supreme Court, with hardly any plurality, allowed the state to intervene in the fishing. There was the question of Volstad had got these structural quotas, which it was then called, to some sort of nobility and ownership, that it had the right to fishing he had been given forever, to his children, grandchildren and descendants, that this was a right he had had that the state could never take from him. It was decided with only one voice's overweight that the state can actually take this back. So the principle of Frostating has become unclear. So unclear is about those who own today, maybe own it forever. Since the 2013 Volstad judgment, a lot has happened. There has been further liberalisation, which has exploded in recent years. So the legal situation today, from a state perspective, from a Community perspective, from a general principle point of view, has become even worse, one can believe. This means that they in the Chamber here believe that the old Viking principle should be crushed – the principle that we find in the Treaty of the Law of the Sea of today, which is formulated there, as we are some about in this process, and which is enshrined in both the Law of the Sea, the Law of the Sea and the Law of the Sea of the Sea – those who believe that this principle should be applied to all of Norway, and that the State, with all its different practices and regulations, etc. shall be followed by points and points, should vote in favour of one of the proposals. The only precise proposals that apply to that are the SV's proposal and the Workers' Party's proposal. But what the Workers' Party's proposal is not about is the principle of subsidiarity. The subsidiarity principle applies to the issue of proximity to a resource giving the right to house the resource. This principle is found in so many other areas, for example: I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Having a closeness to the outback, has a right to house it, to use it. This principle has a long tradition in the Norwegian maritime case law and is also the direct reason why we have as large a sea area as we have today. Norway's only marine law minister, Jens Evensen, actively used the principle of proximity when Norway, through negotiations, was able to argue that we should have a much larger share of the North Sea than what we should have been entitled to from a purely mathematical geographical model. What Jens Evensen used as an argument was that in these marine areas, the Northmen had fished for a long, long time, because of proximity, because we have small islands that are beyond there, and because we have an active fishing population. That's how Jens Evensen and Co managed. to argue that Norway should have a significantly larger sea area - six times the size of the Norwegian land area. There are no other countries in the world that have such an extent, but it is because he used this principle, the principle of subsidiarity – that proximity gives the right to remain active. So the phrase that the Labour Party has omitted in its proposal, that the sea should contribute to the employment and settlement of coastal communities, which is a direct copy of what is in the Marine Resource Act, is also a denial of the principle of proximity. Then I just have to remind myself of the process leading up to these proposals, because that still provokes me. SV had created a proposal that we sent to the other parties to ask if it was possible to agree to it. There was no agreement from the Labour Party to the proposal, but they copied – word for word – our text and made their own proposal, but left out what had to do with the coastal people's right to house. 80 pst. of the proposal they have written by me – and that is what the Labour Party is inviting to vote for today. What still remains is completely unclear to me – one thing is the shame that still provokes me, that one just takes a text that way, without law – is why an abandoned coastal people. For there are two principles that prevail in Norwegian maritime law – that is the general principle, and that is the principle of subsidiarity. The two hang closely together, and they can be traced far back in time, in our history. The central party's proposal is a different entry point, focusing primarily on the fact that no one can be excluded from fishing today, i.e. that no one can be given the right to fish forever. The weakness of the Central Party's proposal is that one does not say anything about the people on the coast – they have no wording about it. We have been actively working on this also in the population, because there is a great frustration and a great sense along the shores of the idea of changing the Norwegian practice of fisheries policy, which means that resources are becoming increasingly scarce, and that coastal communities are losing. So we've built a website where people can sign the proposal that we've formulated. Over 20,000 people have signed so far. We're going to continue to work on kneeling these principles in every possible way, whether there's tightening of today's practice, i.e. under-laws and regulations, but also fighting for the principle that the sea belongs to the people to be crushed in the Constitution, together with proximity giving the right that this will benefit the coastal communities and the people on the coast. We're going to fight until we get through it. Now none of those from the other parties were involved in the process that I just outlined, which is here today, but I hope we will now – starting from the good seminar that we had been doing in the process, where my impression was that the fronts of Norwegian policy do not necessarily need to be so steep in this area; these are traditions that have been agreed upon at some point in time – can gather us about these two principles and find a way to formulate it in the Constitution that ensures that no different conditions can destroy the profound principles of Norwegian law. I don't know if any suggestions are made in constitutional cases, but I do, and I recommend the SV's group to vote in favour of the proposal that SV is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e402	The representative of Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e407	Norway is a major port and manages sea areas six to seven times larger than our land. The proximity to the sea has at all times marked the people of this country, our history and not least our economy, and the Norwegian fisheries management has been a great success, providing large revenues and important jobs across the country, especially along the coast. In Norway, it has also been a success story that we own water, forests and fish in layers. It has given us important jobs and great values that have built up the welfare society we know. That's how we want it to still be. We must ensure that the fish and the other marine resources in the sea are jointly owned by the people. We regard this as such an important principle that we believe it must be enshrined in the Constitution. The fish is not to be privatized. No one shall have an everlasting fishing quota or be able to own a fixed part of the fishing quotas set. Under the Solberg government, we have seen the pressure to privatize, the pressure to sell our natural resources has increased. Although Stortinget has slowed down and stopped some of the proposals, we know that especially the Right Party and the Advance Party are engaged in the further sale of our common resources. It is therefore not without reason that there are three different proposals pending but all of which have a common objective: to guarantee joint ownership of marine resources. Several representatives from the Workers' Party, as well as representatives from the Centre Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, therefore support proposals to legislate the ownership of the community for the fish, the marine resources and the associated genetic material. I note that in the Committee's opinion, the Right Party and the Advance Party state that they believe that adequate protection is provided by the Sea Resource Act. The Christian People's Party and the Left, now also part of the government, obviously have no point anymore – it's worrying. There are still only a few marine organisms, especially in the north, that have been explored in the context of nutrition. There is a cross-political consensus that we will explore the sea to an even greater extent, and then exploitation of the biological material could become an important growth area for Norwegian business. For the Workers' Party, it is important to ensure that we do not come into a situation where the Community no longer has the right or control over these resources. It is true that we have already laid down important principles of community ownership of marine resources in today's legislation. Under the Stoltenberg Government, this principle was enshrined in the Sea Resource Act. It is established that it is the people and the community that own the fish and the marine wild resources in the sea. The Sea Resource Act regulates not only coastal fishing and industrial activities but also new resources that were not previously covered by the Fisheries Policy Act. The law applies to the harvesting and other exploitation of all wild marine resources and related genetic material. However, we believe that we need to establish the fundamental principles laid down in the Maritime Resource Act on Community ownership. By doing so, we want to establish key societal values and establish specific legal stability, which will also provide protection against changing political interests. It will limit what the Storing can determine in law and will lead to the content of future management decisions under the Marine Resource Act and other related laws and regulations. At the same time, we must continue to stand up to other parts of the law to ensure nationality requirements, active fishermen and the principle that fishing quotas should not be eternal. The Labour Party will therefore call for important legislation, such as the Sea Resource Act, the Participant Act and the Fisheries Sale Act, such as: ensure a fishing trip fleet and that the nationality requirement is maintained. It is announced that before this Greatness separates, there will be a communication on fisheries policy, which will become important. When it comes to developing the fisheries policy, the starting point of the Workers' Party will always be that we own the fish together and that it will benefit in particular from the coast. We are particularly concerned that our resources will create jobs along the coast. We share the ambitions of the SV's proposal that marine resources should benefit the coastal community, but it is demanding to legislate that the fish should provide jobs along the coast. It's about politics, and we have a lot of business development policy – creating jobs where resources are being picked up. The debate that the representative of Mr Knag Fylkesnes just brought up, on how to arrive at the various proposals in the previous round, could be considered. I didn't sit on the Stortinget then, so I can't go into it entirely. Many others did not either. But if you agree with 80 pst. by a proposal, it is a rather common practice to agree and present it, but not include the last 20 pst. That you're going to be very provoked by it, I don't have that much understanding of it. I think you can get a majority for 80 pst. by a proposal, is quite good.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e424	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e429	The representative, Mr Myrseth, is in favour of proposal No. 23, the 80 pst. of the proposal is a blue copy of the text that the signatures have written. The size has hardly ever been seen to have copied in the same way – so clearly – without asking. But I did not find any basis for why the Labour Party here is proposing to support a proposal where the peoples of the coast and coastal communities are left out of principle. There are two principles that apply to the marine resource laws, the Participant Act and the Fisheries Act: it is both the general principle that the sea belongs to the people, and the principle of subsidiarity that it should benefit the coastal population. But this is what the Labour Party has chosen to take out, and the only foundation I found from Myrseth's side was that it was problematic, and that this was politics. But everything is politics here. What is the real reason why you want to keep it outside?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e437	There is no secret team around why the Workers' Party votes as we do. We believe that there are some principles underpinning what should be enshrined in the Constitution and what should be implemented through other political decisions in the United Kingdom. There are other laws that the Workers' Party is making loops, which say a lot about the people of the coast, and that benefit the coastal population. I'm not going to go into the round that was in the previous period, because I didn't sit on the Stortinget then, but it's not unusual to present the parts of a proposal that you agree with, to be able to create a majority – and not the whole proposal, because that's what you don't agree with.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e444	I still don't have a proper reason for that. It's the two principles that favor Norwegian use of the sea. Why does the Workers' Party not find in this matter the people of the coast worth enough to be brought into the good company, into the Constitution? This is exactly where one of the biggest species is in Norwegian fisheries policy. It is here that the people of the coast daily experience being pushed out of the Norwegian fisheries, and that there are the few who take over resources and power – not the many. So I want to give the representative Myrseth, who is a member of the Labour Party's fisheries policy, who represents North Norway, who has marked this very heavy, a new opportunity to answer: what is the reason why the principle of subsidiarity is not found worthy of entry into the Constitution?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e449	Here were many statements from Knag Fylkesnes about both what is the Labour Party's policy, and why you do what you do. I think Knag Fylkesnes has brought with him both what the undersigned has said here, and what others in the Workers' Party have said earlier. Maybe you just don't agree with our rationale. We have a lot of policies to ensure the important principles of the fisheries policy, and we are very often promoting them in the Grand Duchy. Very often we also agree with the representative from SV, but to add everything that is meant at a political level, into the Constitution, we do not think that is the way to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e454	A final follow-up question to it: we have recently had discussions on third country quotas for the EU and how to allocate the obligation quotas, if they are no longer to exist – i.e. the right coast for the fish. So I'm not sure that the line of the Labour Party is completely clear here. Then the question of whether an actual is willing to travel the two principles, those found worthy of purpose in both the Marine Resource Act, the Participating Act and the Fish Salmon Act. Why does one just pick one of the principles from these laws and omit the other?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e459	I believe I have responded to this up to several times now. The representative from SV is not going to get any other answer. We are going to present many important proposals on fisheries policy when we are going to deal with this for the autumn. Hopefully, we, the Workers' Party and SV, will agree then, but we do not agree with the SV's representative on the principles of what should be included in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e464	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e469	Fish in the sea have been infinitely a vital resource for people who have lived on our long-range coast. The ability to harvest the sea has been a crucial prerequisite for settlement and work in small communities along the coast and for the emergence of cities and trading venues. Like, for example, My own home town, Bergen – it just grew up because of the rich deposits of fish in the sea, and because the loofot fishermen in the Hansa era went the long way south to Bergen to trade fish with cereals from German merchants. Norway is a rich nation thanks to its marine resources. The oil and gas, maritime and maritime industries employ more than 200,000 people and contribute about 500 billion. kr of the value added in Norway. About 70 pst. Norwegian exports come from the marine industries. We are Europe's largest fishing nation and the world's ninth largest fishing nation. Then we also have a sea area between six and seven times our land area. While the fossil resources once end, the fish is an eternal resource that future generations can benefit from if we just manage it in a sustainable way, avoid overfishing and get rid of the serious plastic pollution, which threatens life in the sea. Therefore, it is important for the Workers' Party that we ensure today's inhabitants and future generations of joint access to marine resources. It has already been established by the Marine Resource Act that the wild marine resources belong to the community in Norway and that the management of resources should ensure employment and settlement in coastal communities. However, when the Workers' Party wants to incorporate these principles into the Constitution, it is because we consider the wild resources in the sea and the genetic material so important to Norway that they need additional protection by means of their own constitution. We don't know what the future brings. Although Norway today has politicians who end up with the principles of the Marine Resource Act that marine fish belong to the national community, political interests can change rapidly. We in the Workers' Party are particularly concerned that this proposal is about those who manage the fishing resources to be the same as today: the community. The fish is our common resource, and the distribution of how it is processed and managed today serves us well. The Labour Party will therefore vote in favour of the constitutional protection of these resources to ensure that this will also apply in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e480	I would first like to thank the case rapporteur for the work on the matter and a good report, where he also expressed our common view on the matter, so I will not go further into it. Just a little comment to Myrseth, who called for the Christian People's Party and the Left in the setting. No, they are not in the committee and cannot, of course, deliver their views in the vote, just so that it is clarified. I would like to thank the Committee for its good work. I don't think it's very common for a person to have constitutional cases where a warehouse seminar and work together to get the best possible basis for dealing with matters. That's what I think was very positive and a nice way of working. It is the case with constitutional cases that there is a little special treatment. In a lot of cases, we're talking to a consensus on Stortinget. We cannot do that here, because the text is there with its small wordings, and that is what we see in this matter, that there are shades of wording that make one not arrive at anything in common. Then there came a concrete invitation from the committee leader if we would join in and cooperate further. I think that's a good invitation. I can say on behalf of the Right, which was specifically challenged, yes, we would like to continue working on these matters and get an even better basis to see if we can come up with a common proposal. I had thought, unreservedly, to say that this we must be able to reach a cross-political agreement on and a proposal on, but after hearing the representative Knag Fylkesnes I am not so sure of it anymore, for he had some prerequisites that needed to be included. But something I think we can agree on in Stortinget that we can promote during the period. We're at least positive to be in on it, and I wanted to sign it out.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e491	Finally, the matter has come to Stortinget. There has been a lot of work on the part of the Center Party to get a pointy proposal. The Constitution imposes strict requirements on proposals to be precise and to act correctly, and, in the light of the experience of the Committee of Inquiry, the proposers have done all they can to meet that requirement. It's an important natural resource we're talking about, and it's the most important natural resource. Marine resources, including saltwater fishing, are an eternal resource, so it is more important than all other renewable natural resources and, in that sense, the non-renewable natural resources. So there's something quite different than oil and gas resources, for which it goes empty, that ends, and the right to extraction that ends when the natural resource ends. I am a little surprised that the representatives of the government parties from the Right and the Advance Party are bringing oil and gas into the matter, because it is significantly different, and it has not been the idea of the Central Party to legislate it in the same way as the renewable marine natural resources. As many people have experienced, there is no doubt today about the legal status of the right of coastal people to marine resources. It is referred to by a unanimous nutrition committee in the Inst. O. No 73 from 2000 to 2001, the Saltwater Fishing Act, which states: ‘The Committee will point out that the fishing resources belong to the Norwegian people in common.’ I repeat, because the message has to be repeated and stuck out among all teams of the people. In addition, Section 2 of the Marine Resource Act states: ‘The wild marine resources are in the Norwegian community’. And in Ot.prp. No 20 from 2007-2008, concerning the Marine Resource Act, states: ‘The individual owner thus does not have a quota right even if he has a concession to operate a particular fishing. Allowances are allocated normally for one year, but may, if necessary, be changed during the year, e.g.: for the purpose of resources.’;» Thus, despite these clear wordings, only by a limited majority, to which several have referred, in the so-called Volstad judgment, was made clear that fishing is the property of the community and that the private fish allocated allowances do not have private ownership of them. It was the background for the discussion in the previous period, which provided the basis for the various constitutional proposals. So the state has the administrative responsibility. The State intervenes and manages for the benefit of the community. Fishermen and other users of marine resources allocated concessions and allowances receive them as rights of use – and I underline ‘as rights of use’ – who fall back into the community under detailed rules. The Constitutional proposal also contributes to a more honest debate on fishing resources and raises the doubts that have been surrounding the privatisation of fishing resources. The government parties, with the Right, the Advance Party and the independent Ulf Leirstein, have comments. It is true that the Christian People's Party is not in the Committee, but the parties are not in the Chamber today, nor with posts, and I think it is weak when we know how important these marine natural resources are. I am pleased that the Right Party and the Progressive Party say that one is not in principle opposed to the proposals, but one is not prepared to vote in favour of the present basic legislative proposals. They say that today’s protection is enshrined in the Marine Resource Act and that it is sufficient to safeguard the rights of marine resources until a proposal on constitutional protection, if any, is available that is sufficiently well established. I want to attach myself a little to ‘sufficiently explored’. The proposal of the Central Party Kjersti Toppe, Janne Sjelmo Nordås and I signed, as well as Helge Thorheim, a former representative of the Advance Party in Rogaland, has spent a lot of work on getting short and precise. There is a lot of investigative work behind that proposal. And then when we've formulated it, it's to what's the point, what's in the first line: "The marine resources belong to the Norwegian people in common." And on the other hand – to remove any doubts about private ownership: «No private person can own or sell the right to harvest». And on the other hand, «No one can forever and always be excluded from the right to harvest. ‘We have thus linked the entire proposal to the harvest right and that the marine resources belong to the Norwegian people together. That is a precise and brief proposal. There's nothing more said about it. The SV’s proposal is: ‘The wild marine resources are owned by the national community and are intended to contribute to employment and residence in coastal communities.’ In other words, it shall ‘contribute to employment and housing’. There's a judgement, and that's what's weak about the proposal. A constitutional proposal must be correct and as precise as possible. According to the assessment of the Centre Party, it is such that it is basic to the Basic Law, not discretionary judgements. We don't want to repeat what SV does; we specify what is ‘in the Norwegian community’. The core is, as I said, that the marine resources belong to the Norwegian people in common. The State has the administrative responsibility and this administrative responsibility is to be used for the benefit of coastal people. This management responsibility is to be used for the benefit of coastal people, but it is a political issue. There will be different assessments of what's best for the people of the coast. For the Centre Party, these natural resources are intended to contribute to a profitable industry along the coast, and I would like to underline ‘remunerated industry’, helping to make it attractive for young people to settle on the coast and to operate on the coast on the basis of these Community resources. There is much left to change Norwegian policy, for Norwegian policy today is far too bad to ensure that the people of the coast get profitability in their work along the coast. It is the main challenge facing the Central Party in the future in terms of coastal policy, and we are going to address this in a radical, strong way, because it is absolutely terrible to experience today how coastal communities are weakened as a result of the removal of natural resources from those who live there, who are going to work there, and who are interested in participating in the important work.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e524	I would like to start by thanking the representative Harberg for his response that we can work together to try to find out formulations that are both legally sustainable and that we can gather on. With that in mind, I think of the seminar we had, where legal competence – and other competences – to the extent that all three formulations, for example, were problematic. The proposal of the Centre Party, for which I have great sympathy. It says the term ‘Norwegian people’. In other large-scale documents, we say that Norway is a country established on the basis of two people. Some legal problems may cause us to exclude the Sami population. I am aware that it is not in any way the intention, but it is an example of the fact that there are three proposals in which we cannot change the wording. I think we might have been able to adjust a little bit to the wording, at least we would have been able to establish a solid majority in the committee, if not a constitutional majority in the Chamber, to gather on a proposal. But then we have to fix all those things. That is why I would be happy if we in all parties could go together to work on such a proposal, which is to be about the basics of the Constitution, which Lundtägen has now been – very well – within. The representative, Knag Fylkesnes, has mentioned several times that the Workers' Party has not said anything about the distribution in its Constitutional Bill, and I registered that he held the former Minister of the Law of the Sea, Evensen. That's why, but no place in that right of the sea says that the oil is going to benefit Stavanger's people. But that's what it's done. We've told Statoil to have its headquarters there. We have been guided by political decisions to ensure that those closest to us receive landings and in other ways benefit from the resource. However, in the case of a fundamental law fixing the Community's right to own and dispose of the fish, it must be everyone in Norway, as Minister of the Law of the Sea Evensen did in its time. It was all about Norway. I have to remind you of the seminar we had. It may not be the biggest issue in this context, but Norway's Hunters' and Fishers' Associations are representatives of the public's use of the fish resource. It is also important for it to be the property of the community. Although it may not have the greatest economic significance, it is important for us as Northmen to be able to fish freely in the sea. Yeah, I think people from Røros should have that right, too. I believe that if we are to say that it should be the property of the community, it should apply to everyone in Norway. I hope we will manage, within this period of time, to arrive at a constitutional proposal that will take care of it, as a basis for consideration in the next period.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e533	From a forward-looking perspective, I share the entrance to both Andersen and Harberg representatives – here it is possible to see how a person can break different principles in such a way that one comes to a higher degree of unity. That's probably something that makes large enough multiples to be adopted in this room. So I've believed in it, because this is a work that must be completed by 30 September next year, and that means that we actually have that time to get through with it. In the kind of fundamental debates that we have in the Great Britain about the Constitution, real debates that are going on in society, in addition to the drama that takes place in many coastal communities, especially in coastal communities that feel that they are here on the losing side of social development – the drama and the sense that something has to be done. Many coastal communities are already closed out of professional fishing, without any reason. They have amazing fishing resources just outside the living room window, and because of the fisheries policy we have allowed Stortinget to operate, they are out of the way – as a direct consequence of a fisheries policy I don't think really want. The government now comes with an allowance message, probably just before summer, which will look at the whole distribution of fish resources, and I hope that the drama that occurs in coastal communities is reflected there. My deep commitment to this is about the coastal communities, but also about the coastal culture that is about to be destroyed as a consequence of this, a culture that we've had with us all the way from Norway as the territory became, from the first human beings came here when the ice began to retreat. It's the culture that's been cultivated since the time that we're now seeing becomes weary. So I think it's a big national task to reverse developments, and we're going to insist that the two principles, the principle of subsidiarity and the general principle, have to be equated. That Evensen and Co. did before petroleum, was fantastic, I want to say it was the Norwegian state at its best, with the ten oil wells, etc., but the oil resource differs quite significantly from a fish resource that actually has its home in – it can be documented – 11,000–12,000 years. Petroleum is a resource that we found, which is in a way inaccessible to the population, which is far from a typical common coughing area. What we're talking about here is fish resources that have their houses off, that's a claim right. That's what makes it a matter of principle, and that's what Jens Evensen did in this field – because he makes a difference – by arguing that Norway would have a bigger economic zone, was quite right. He understood that by recognising the principle of subsidiarity, Norway would be able to defend and argue that we should have a larger economic zone, which was quite right.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e547	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e552	Knag Fylkesnes took up his post that it was difficult for the people of the coast to get involved in the fishing. Why do you mean that? I get it, maybe, because I live in a society that feels how expensive it is to get a quota. Do you know who it is that can buy the quota today, and how much is the smallest quota you get?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e557	The President must only remind us that in this Chamber we must not address each other with ‘you’, but with ‘the representative’ – Knag Fylkesnes, for example. The representative of Knag County will then be allowed to reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e562	The representative Adelsten Iversen here points to is a direct consequence of not directly complying with the principle of today's law. I saw in the fishing magazine an advertisement about the sale, and the smallest quota unit was about 4 million. kr for a base quota. There's at least one need to get into the professional fishing -- and that's before you have bought a boat. That means that the cost of getting into the fishing has exploded – I think it's been 7 pst. increase only in the last seven years – and have grown so high that only those who have access to capital have the ability to purchase. We see that it's the weak parts of Norway that are the big losers. To put it that way: Hasvik has a lot, but not a lot of capital – unfortunately, we know that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e567	Then I have a follow-up question. Today, people from all over the EEA can start fishing by fleet up to 15 metres. Does it happen – is it today that these become competitors of fishermen living along the coast?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e572	It may be a follow-up problem. We've been lowering the structure from 15 to 10 years ago, but not the entrance of an EEA citizen to fishing. So suddenly EEA citizens can participate in structuring, and I don't think that was really the intention of the legislators and the government. I think it's a follow-up problem that we should address. Fishing is outside the EEA Agreement today. «No Fish Olsen» and the negotiated agreement we had from that time, secure it. That means that we can actually decide that policy entirely. When we know how important this is to maintain coastal communities and coastal culture, I think we should have very specific rules – not that one should refuse, but that one should have very specific rules for those who would be able to fit in with the Norwegian fisheries.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e577	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e595	The draft Constitution, promoted by representatives from the SV and the Left to legislate on the right to apply for asylum through the amendment of Section 93 of the Constitution, is justified by a desire to legislate the rights currently in force at a higher level. The Committee, in its call for proposals, underlines the international recognition of the right to seek refuge in another country due to persecution. Norway should, of course, be part of this common understanding and manage it in a good way. The rights are currently reflected in the Foreign Affairs Act, given that Norway has committed itself to a number of international conventions ensuring asylum rights. The provisions of the Refugee Convention, the European Convention on Human Rights and the United Nations Convention on Civil and Political Rights confer the right to protection or protection against expulsion. It is not long since the Human Rights Committee made a thorough assessment and concluded that the right to apply for asylum, or the right to asylum, is not suitable for fundamental law enforcement. This can be justified in part by the fact that such a right must be limited and will require clarifications and exceptions described in the law in order to be understood and applied correctly. The Constitution is not suitable for such a solution. Another important reason is that if you took this right with such a description, it would make the paragraph very flexible, given that this is an area where you are constantly experiencing actual changes in the framework and assumptions. One might thus experience that a text of the constitution with good intentions can create obstacles to what is the intention of the proposal. As a last reason, an amendment to the Basic Law proposed would not lead to an improvement in the rights of the group to which the rights are to apply. They seem well cared for with today's laws and conventions, and then it is for me that there is a great deal to change the Constitution. The members of the Committee, all except the representative of the SV, propose that the proposal be rejected. SV proposes to approve the proposal, and I expect that they themselves will justify this more fully.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e610	First, I would like to address the proposal. The right to asylum is not exactly mountainous in today's world. Nor is it exactly mountainous in Norway. There are some rights that are more fundamental than others – getting out of an area where life is threatened, and into an area where life is safe, have the right to seek and get protection and the right to protection from return to persecution, as the representative Harberg said. Freedom and rights are so fundamental in this area, because it's about life. In a world where there is war and persecution, terror and many places without a rule of law, throughout history there are quite a number of countries that have tried to make this thin, a little impractical, the web of human rights, which, through agreements and principles, will regulate how to act as a state, how to treat individuals in peacetime, but also in war and conflict. Because that's often where it fails. It's easy to keep these rights when we're not under pressure, but when we're under pressure, a lot of work is done. Human rights, the UN Conventions, the European Convention on Human Rights and the Convention on Refugees are part of the web of ways of civilising the world. It's taken us 100 years and two world wars to put in place these rules to protect individuals when they hit in this way. But in recent conflicts, where Europe has been put under a slightly greater pressure than they have been in these areas, we have seen that European leaders, as well as Norwegian politicians, have run and almost stumbled into each other's legs in order to break these rights. This is fundamentally about the state's obligations to people on the run, but it is also about whether as a nation we will continue to be a spearhead for the world to be civilised, and that we have rules on how all countries should behave and behave in difficult situations. Because it's hard when there's a lot of people on the run. It is, of course, very bad for them, but it is a challenge for all countries. Protecting living lives and sharing responsibility is part of the solution to chaos situations that follow conflicts, political dictatorships and wars. It protects those who are unjustly affected, but it also protects us who want civilised cooperation and sharing of responsibilities, so it is in our interest that these rights and conventions are held up. Because these rights are under pressure, it's to legislate them a way to do it. The rapporteur said that this is almost mountainous in Norway. No, it doesn't. Asylum law is under strong and constant pressure, including in Norway, and internationally, no country is now taking the lead in protecting this right. They're looking for loopholes to undermine the obligations and release responsibility. Nor is it in our interest as a small country that it should be so. There's no security for us. Is there anyone in Norway who wants to undermine this court? Yes, it is. I was there when we dealt with the contractions after many refugees arrived in Norway in 2015. At that time, the United Nations was consulting the Storting and saying that with what we did, we broke our obligations. I can use it as an example to remove the reasonableness condition. So it shouldn't be unreasonable to return people to a completely different part of a country from where they originally came from. This applies, for example: return to Kabul from Norway. I could discuss the security situation there, but I'm not going to do that right now. This concerns the principles to which Norway has committed itself. Therefore, it is important that this is stated in the Constitution as a commitment. Then, of course, it will have to be interpreted. This is the case with a great many of the Constitutional provisions. There are quite a number of constitutional provisions that are quite transparent and require them to be understood as practical policies. But I think it is a little ominous when you in the setting reason that you should not have this into the Constitution, precisely because there is a need for flexibility. What SV wants to establish is the principles, and that's the principles we're not going to give up. Some practical solutions need to be found in different situations. These are difficult situations, we have all sorts of respect for it, but the principles should be in the Constitution, so that we are quite clear both that Norway should comply with them and that we should be one of the countries that stand up for this internationally. I also have a comment on what is stated in the statement that it is assumed that most refugees are not real refugees. For a long time, 70 pst. of the persons who have applied for protection in Norway have stayed here. The vast majority of them have been accommodated because Norwegian foreign authorities believe that there would be a risk of a return to their country of origin and that they are thus entitled to protection under Norway’s international obligations, primarily the Convention on Refugees, but also the ECHR. The largest group of asylum seekers now comes from Syria, Turkey and Eritrea, countries where there are serious violations of human rights against the civilian population, and most of those seeking are women and children. But I record that you want to maintain a notion that most asylum seekers do not have grounds for asylum. So that's not right. One wants to maintain a notion that it is those who need the least protection, who seek asylum, and some also have a notion that they are young men. I would point out that men too can really need protection, but the majority of asylum seekers now are women and children. We believe that this proposal has its place in the Constitution. The Human Rights Committee also concluded that there were good arguments to legislate this court. It is, as they write, part of our Christian and humanistic heritage to give protection to people in flight. Such protection may be granted only if the right to asylum is established. And that is what we want with this proposal. It has been necessary before, it is absolutely necessary now, and I hope that my co-representatives will reconsider their vote in favour of this proposal. It would put the rights in the right place, and it would put Norway in a position that we should occupy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e635	The representative Karin Andersen took up the proposal from SV at the very beginning of his speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e640	All right, first of all just a little comment on this debate. We're discussing here what we should think was the most basic and important thing, and then I see that the hall is almost empty. I also record that even the proposers in this case, the Left Party, are not present to defend their own case. It is quite alarming that we are discussing a constitutional case in which, in order to quote a previous speaker today, we are going to establish the most fundamental, and some of the proposers are not present. But okay – SV is present, and we want to mark this case. We are committed to the international recognition of the right to apply for asylum. The story behind this is important to bring with it. After World War II, there were great refugee flows in Europe. The need to make mandatory arrangements was seen so that the world community could take responsibility for the refugees. It was a moral imperative. The victims of today's cruelest war were to be protected. Europe was a battlefield. Each country could not protect all the refugees around Europe. There were tens of millions of them. The international community had to be invited to come up with a solution to deal with this. International rules were created, international organisations were created, international funding was put in place. The responsibility for refugees in war could not be resolved within the nation state alone. This is where the concept of the right to asylum comes in. The most concrete things were the 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the 1951 Refugee Convention, the UN Convention on Civil and Political Rights and, of course, the European Convention on Human Rights, which defines the right not to return people to danger. It is not that a fundamental law on the right to apply for asylum will change the law here, because Norway is attached to all of this. Nor is it the case that a fundamental law on the right to apply for asylum will necessarily lead to more asylum seekers in Norway. No, it's not about that. It's about – as I said at the outset – that we're going to get stronger commitments around what's the most basic. Now I'll say why I mean it. The evolution of the world right now is going in the illiberal and authoritarian direction. In all major countries in the world – I am ramming up the United States, China, Brazil, Russia, Turkey and many countries in Eastern Europe – the independence of the courts is weakened. They also want to weaken the basis for international cooperation – including international cooperation on what we managed to achieve after World War II, namely to create a common protection for world war refugees. The binding international agreements are now weaker than they have in many, many decades. It's a long way to go what this is all about. We have also seen this in the case of political actors in Norway, to which the representative Karin Andersen referred. Some also in Norway — including state councils — have suggested that the binding conventions in Norway should be amended in order to address this international, partly transnational, responsibility to a lesser extent. In concrete terms, we had an example a year and a half ago, when the Danish Presidency of the Council of Europe in its Memorandum of Understanding, the so-called Copenhagen Declaration, had a passion that asylum matters should be handled more in each country and, to a lesser extent, in the European Court of Human Rights. It was clearly expressed by the Danes at the time that the European Court of Human Rights was to be built up, in order to draw it more strongly back to the nation states. This would definitely weaken the rights of asylum seekers in Europe. I was surprised: in fact, the Norwegian Government passively put forward and applauded this proposal. Fortunately, it was stopped by wiser politicians in Europe than the Norwegian government parties, so there was no change. The European Court of Human Rights has equal validity and authority in asylum matters now, even though the Danes tried to undermine this. It's this development that worries. There are a number of countries in Europe that – despite commitment to the UN, the European Council conventions, etc. – now wishes to re-interpret the Convention obligations, to commit them in a different way, in order to reduce their own responsibilities and the obligations given them by the Conventions. They want stronger national control and fewer international obligations. There are outer right and populist forces that are driving this forward in many countries in Europe. It is also definitely the case that the refugee panic that Europe experienced after the summer of 2015 has triggered this, but there are also strong anti-Islamic/Muslim attitudes in many European countries. The losers in this destabilization of Europe and this destabilization of the international community are the many thousands – perhaps millions – of refugees who should have a strong right to seek asylum. Although the right to apply for asylum is provided for in international agreements, these obligations are also weakened by law, especially in a Europe that has become more destabilised. In order to give these adequate rights, the right must be formalised in a different and stronger way. This is where the requirement for a foundational law is put in place. By legislating these rights, we can ensure that the right to apply for asylum can survive a little demanding times. A demanding time will, for example: could be a new wave of refugees, millions of people crossing the sea or over the mountains and seeking refuge in Europe. A foundation law will also be able to secure us against rapid and almost impulsive changes, for example. after a terrorist act. It may be known that the person who carried out this action was perhaps a former asylum seeker. A fundamental law must prevent rapid, immediate and perhaps spontaneous changes that change fundamental rights because we are in an uproar. We're not going to change the law at a time when people are upset. It's just when the Constitution comes in as a central mechanism to keep this kind of stability. I definitely believe that this is absolutely essential. Norway shall establish stability and predictability around the right of asylum seekers to apply for asylum in Norway. If we do that, Norway will also be able to go ahead for other countries. It is very important in a Europe that is still destabilising.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e669	I'm going to be short, because the essential thing is now said by the two previous speakers. I would also regret the weak involvement of other parties so far in this important matter, regardless of what you really think about the foundation law celebration itself. I will, of course, strongly support the proposal to include the right to apply for asylum as a new element of the Constitution § 93, and I will do so for several reasons. This right is formulated in the proposal in such a way that it is consistent with the recognised international understanding of it – and it is different from the proposal we are going to consider in the next case. I also want to do it because it expresses some of the best in our national humanitarian tradition, and I want to do it because this supplement will mark where we stand on one of the most vulnerable front sections of the international struggle for human rights. Repeatedly, the right to apply for asylum has been recognised in several conventions Norway is obliged to do so, including with the constitutional basis in Section 92, and not to change any law or practice in Norway. But it will underline the importance of this right in a way that corresponds to the great, great seriousness of the challenges it is all about. The main objection to the proposal has been that a detailed specification of the possible basis for seeking asylum and all the balances leading to a concrete asylum policy is required. Yes, and it must happen in ordinary law, here as in other areas of the Constitution where it lays down a general principle. I can't see that this proposal stands out that way, as Karin Andersen also explained. The most important thing is that the very fundamental right to apply for a stay, to apply for protection from persecution, is given the strong anchor that fundamental law provides. As I said, giving this right a constitutional place will be consistent with some of the very best in Norway's humanitarian tradition, and it will in every way be an addition in the spirit of the Constitution, as it is, among other things. is expressed in the new Section 2, Value Paragraph. The exposure to human rights is most important when something is at stake, and it does so today. We see a development in which governments not only allow them to live up to human rights – it is nothing new, they have always done – but also where state leaders openly challenge them and deny their validity to their countries. Among the most vulnerable rights right now is the right to apply for asylum. It was hollowed out and undermined, so to speak, all sides, as both the representative Karin Andersen and the representative Petter Eide explained and gave examples in their contributions. That's exactly why we should base it. We should lift that flag today. Unfortunately, that's not going to happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e686	The right to seek asylum is a fundamental human right. People in flight at risk of their own lives and security shall be protected. The Court is not well established in the World Declaration to the United Nations on Human Rights and in the United Nations Convention on Refugees. How nations manage the responsibility we have to help people escape, says a lot about how decent we are as people, what signal we want to send out about how we approach the asylum institution. Today, these rules are given in the Foreign Affairs Act. The reason why the Left today is gathering to vote for the right to seek asylum also to be enshrined in the Constitution is that such a fundamental human right should be legislated at a higher constitutional level than the current law on foreigners. It's about what signal we as a nation and rich will send to the world around us. It's about what values we should flag, and how the world should view us as a nation. Norway has a proud tradition of working for people on the run. The Nansenpass ensures in its time that 450,000 stateless refugees could travel to other countries for a break. If we look at today's numbers about how many people are running away, we can quickly get discouraged. Today, under 70 million people are fleeing the world. 40 million are fleeing in own countries, while less than 30 million have fled to another country. Although it is difficult to predict the future, there is little to suggest that the number will go down, rather the opposite. Norway must take its share of responsibility. In the case of concrete political breakthroughs, the Left is pleased that we are in a government that receives 3 000 quota refugees. It's our job to make sure that as a nation, we take the responsibility we can bear. Even if the Left would like to take on even more, we are glad to sit in a government that shows that we also take international responsibility for people who may be in their most precarious situation of life. Establishing the right to apply for asylum will not mean that more people on fugitive banks at our door, nor will it send a signal that there is freedom of movement in Norway. The foreign law is already clear today on our commitments to asylum for refugees. The signal we give with basic law is that this is something Norway takes very seriously. As a nation, we keep human protection in flight as one of our most important values, and such an important value is such a fundamental human right that it should definitely enter the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e699	Thank you for the debate so much. The reason I had to take the floor was that Karin Andersen referred to something in his post, but it was not correct. It's always like when you hear something in the hall and you're going to refer to it, you don't have the record in front of you, so you have to remember it. But Karin Andersen gave the impression and was startled that the Committee's attitude says that most are not real asylum seekers. It's directly wrong, and we can't let it say that the committee feels that way. What is the reality is that the attitude refers to the Human Rights Committee: ‘For the sample it was also a cross of thought that many’ – not most – ‘of today’s asylum seekers are not on the run from persecution but from difficult living conditions, and are therefore not real asylum seekers.’ Then I hope it is clarified, and that the committee is not given a vision that it does not have. It is good to see that even if you have a slightly different conclusion on the matter, we are equally concerned that the right to apply for asylum is established. We are concerned that it should be followed up. Yeah, it's probably true, as Karin Andersen says, that sometimes it's under pressure. We're going to watch it whether it's here or there. We believe that it is so clear in so many places that we are doing well to fight for it as it stands today. It's especially that you have to have these constraints, which means that we don't think it's appropriate as a foundation text.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e711	This court is very well suited to be grounded on a principle level just because it's under pressure. I am pleased that the representative Svein Harberg admits it and sees that it is. The majority of the committee has chosen to quote something from the Human Rights Committee that does not match today's reality. They have chosen to quote it, but not to quote what they have also said, that there may be grounds for legislating this right. I record that they choose to quote something that gives an impression that is wrong. One could not quote the selection at this particular point, because there are a lot of points in the selection setting from which it is not quoted, and which could speak in the direction of basic law fixing. Finally, I mentioned in my post the panic that took the whole Stortinget – except for SV and the Environmental Party of the Greens – when many refugees arrived in Norway in 2015. Then a consensus was negotiated, and the UN pointed out that there was a breach of our obligations. I could have mentioned several also, but I have to mention one more point in the agreement, which the government has subsequently parked. I'm glad, but they negotiated a majority decision on the Stortinget – only SV and the Environmental Party The Greens didn't agree on it – where they wanted to renegotiate the refugee convention, in a situation where there wasn't one leader around the world, perhaps apart from Angela Merkel for a little while, who could imagine holding up the rights and perhaps strengthening them. One was willing to put the whole convention on the table at a time when the leaders really raced to tear down the entire convention in fillets. This makes me feel that I am not sure that you will stand up for this – nor that the majority in Norway will stand up for it – both because the persecuted individuals need it, and because some countries in the world want to say to other countries: ‘Let’s continue building up under a civilised world through conventions that we hold high and that we hold up when it’s most difficult.’ It’s not hard to keep principles on a sunny day, when everyone is healthy and everything is fine. It's when it's at worst, we need these principles. They are so important, and I must admit that I do not think I have heard any very good arguments that this should not be grounded – on the contrary. In our time, these principles should be founded precisely because they are vital and because they are under pressure.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e722	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e738	The Constitutional Bill in this case concerns the amendment to the Constitutional Act § 93, or rather an extension to it. It is today «right to life» and it is desired to extend to «protection of life from conception to natural death». The right to life is established in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights of 10 December 1948. It is also enshrined in the European Convention on Human Rights, in the UN Convention on Civil and Political Rights and in the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. All of these are ratified by Norway and made into Norwegian law by the Human Rights Act. In view of this, a unanimous committee considers that there is neither a need nor a desire to extend the concept as proposed by the proposers and therefore recommends that the proposal be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e747	The first paragraph of Section 93 of the Constitution, which we are discussing today, came into the Constitution as part of the enlarged human rights catalogue in 2014. In the debate about these important changes, there were some people in advance who expressed skepticism to include their own paragraph on the right to life, because they suspected that it would be used as a tool of abortion opponents. Fortunately, this objection was quickly removed, and the paragraph came into place. The right to life is a cornerstone of the entire human rights building. Simply put, if I don't have the right to life, the other rights will help me very little. The right to life also has an advanced place in the other major rights documents internationally. The most important source of justice for us is Section 2 of the European Convention on Human Rights. The European Court of Human Rights, which enforces it, refuses to interfere with the laws of the countries on abortion on the basis of the paragraph on the right to life, except in cases where extremely restrictive abortion laws endanger Mother's life, as was the case in Ireland prior to the amendment of the law there. For that reason, too, the previous fear of such a paragraph should be unfounded. The Norwegian Constitutional Paragraph is and should be our formulation of the internationally recognised right. We have just enough additional passport against the death penalty, which is missing in the European, but which is consistent with the judgment of a large majority of the people over a long period of time with us. For me, the Basic Law should not be the place for deciding whether either abortion legislation or, for example, abortion legislation. death aid. There are important debates and, of course, it is legitimate to place human rights perspectives in them on both sides of the discussion. Additional rights are involved in the game - women's rights not least. Conversely, these questions should not be settled or indirectly determined by the wording of the Basic Law on the right to life as a fundamental right. Therefore, the amendment we are debating today cannot be supported. I think I would also have thought if I had had a different view of abortion than what I and SV have, and that on the basis of two main arguments that I want to elaborate. The first concerns the need for consistency between Norwegian and international human rights understanding. The second relates to the unique function of the Constitution as a unitary symbol and a national identity builder in our country. I also have to comment on them, in my view, the unacceptable leadership of the bill could have on abortion legislation, and the unfortunate signals such a change would send internationally. The proposal to add to the first paragraph of Section 93 is thus as follows: ‘Human dignity shall be inviolable and everyone shall have the right to physical integrity from conception to natural death.’ The first paragraph about human dignity I have no objection to. The intention to clarify the human dignity of the Basic Law is commendable, even though it may be said that human dignity has already been effectively safeguarded in both this paragraph and in several of the other human rights chapters, with the explicit use of the term in Section 104 on children’s rights. Anyway, a supplement that had stopped at commas in the proposal might have gone through. I could have supported it. The problem comes at the end of the sentence, not least through the expression ‘from conception’, which – if we read it literally – aligns the legal protection of a newly fertilised egg with, for example, a fully-bred child. As I said, this goes far beyond the interpretation of the right to life laid down internationally and used by the European Court of Human Rights in its enforcement of the corresponding paragraph of the Convention on Human Rights. The wording does not necessarily have to be equivalent in the Norwegian Constitution, but it should not be such that, in the case of the same right, the content differs greatly from the international consensus, as it would do with this proposal. I don't want to say anything about the motives of others, but we know the Christian People's Party's abortion policy, and abortion issues form an essential part of the reason for the proposal. In a short time, as you know, the Storting will deal with a proposal that has led the government to promote, because the Christian People's Party wants more and more far-reaching restrictions on abortion rights than this. The draft Constitution, if adopted, will undoubtedly also place a particular emphasis on such new developments. But this is a very controversial line, which not only other parties, but also an overwhelming majority of the people in our country, are strongly opposed. It is about the right to safe and good health care in a difficult situation. If anyone had been in doubt, the women's uprising to defend the abortion law in winter and our talk clearly enough about it. Norwegian abortion legislation suggests that between conception and birth there is a gradual development, a process, with increasing protection of the foetus the further into pregnancy. The principle involves a right balance in relation to the woman carrying the foetus. The same principle is underpinned by the legislation of all countries which have legal access to abortion, although the specific provisions and limits vary. And this, as I said, is respected by e.g. The European Court of Human Rights, which does not conflict with the right to life, as laid down in the Convention. It's actually something quite different than the principle the proposal seems to be resting on. Then I come to the second main argument. In Norway, we have a particular reason why very controversial and divisive specificities in specific policy areas should not be affected by the Constitution. In our country, to a much greater extent than in other European countries, including our Scandinavian neighbours, the Constitution is much more than a purely legal text for historical reasons. It is a strong symbol to which positive feelings are attached, and which has a prominent place in what we can call our national identity. One of the best things about it is that the Constitution, with its political character, has the potential to include the construction of a democratic national community in a multicultural society, unlike ethnic-cultural building blocks, which can easily be used in more exclusive nationalism variants. This isn't just history. This may be important in the future, perhaps more important than ever, in line with last week’s Hareides survey on the emergence of national conservative regimes with authoritarian features. But then we must also avoid developing the Constitution in a direction that no longer has the power to assemble, but that seems divisive – and that for no compelling reason. Here I believe the proposal for a new section 93 goes in the wrong direction. This, of course, does not mean that the Constitution should be confined to what everyone, or almost everyone, can agree to. For me and my party, the disagreement starts already in Section 1 about the monarchy state form, but I still experience it as my constitution, as our constitution, and I want it to continue as much as possible. We also have to look beyond the limits, because what we do with our Constitution sends signals. We know that there is a struggle in many countries and in several parts of the world about women’s rights – not least about the right to legal and safe access to abortion. There should be no doubt about where Norway, as a state and nation, is in this fight. In the United States, we see that these days, several states are adopting drastic restrictions on the abortion law, with dramatic penalties for those who had to break them. On the contrary, Argentina was a hair-breadth from legalizing abortion last year, when a narrow majority in Congress was turned – unfortunately – into an equally scarce majority against the Senate. However, the strong grassroots movement ‘The Green Skates’ can hardly be stopped in the long run, and it is highly likely that Argentina will follow Uruguay, the regional pioneer in the field, at the next crossroads. It won't necessarily lead to more abortions. Several hundred thousand are being carried out illegally every year — safely and safely for the wealthy, with a high risk of infection, injury and in several cases death for the poor. Far north of the continent, the laws are even more stringent, and the most extreme examples are from Nicaragua and El Salvador, which are totally banned in all circumstances and the penalties are harsh. The most grotesque outcome is that of girls who have experienced spontaneous abortions, but who are in prison for decades after accusations of provocative abortion from local rumors. It's actually here that we can go to find examples of constitutional regulations that today's proposals might remind us of. El Salvador's 1983 constitution is an inheritance from the dictatorship, before the end of the Civil War and the introduction of democracy in 1992. This is already stated in the first article: ‘El Salvador recognises as a human person any person from the moment of conception.’ From the moment of conception – at these two words of the Constitution, actually six in Spanish, we need to be able to call a horror regime around abortion in the country. At least this is the biggest obstacle to it despite all the significant opinion in the country that wants to soften the law. Constitutional plural -- it's going to be a little bit more like this. Without the Constitutional Decree, guarded by a Conservative Constitutional Department in the Supreme Court, this would have been done by a simple majority of ordinary law. Of course, I don't think for a moment that a single representative here in the Chamber supports neither such extreme abortion laws nor the barbaric penalties, but it is in this world that we send a signal about where we stand, and then it is impracticable to see the coincidence when we return to today's proposal. The proposers may not want the same construction, but they use the same kind of stone in the base wall. I am fully aware that there is no one-to-one relationship between a value formula in the Constitution and the positive binding laws of Stortinget. But a relationship should be. If you read the proposal literally, it will actually look like, for example, spiral and withdrawal pills may become non-constitutional contraceptives. I don't know if that was meant to be, but it shouldn't be too difficult to interpret a constitutional paragraph either. The availability is a democratic issue, and that's why we got it in modern book goals and new Norwegian in 2014. Against this background, the SV and I will vote against the proposal to amend the first paragraph of Section 93.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e800	The matter of the protection of life from conception to death arouses strong feelings in many. I understand that, and I respect that. It's about people, it's about a mother, it's about a father, and it's about an unborn life. My wish is that we should be able to talk about the different aspects of the right to life in a respectful tone, knowing that there are different views, and not least different experiences. I say this initially because it is important for me to be clear that it is the Christian People's Party's wish that we see each other's dilemmas in a matter like this. For us, human dignity does not depend on the individual human qualities. It doesn't depend on what possibilities you have for life. Nor is it about sex, appearance, age, sexual orientation, health or functioning. One does not achieve its unique value by virtue of a particular equipment or by virtue of certain performances. The right to life is the most fundamental of all human rights. All people have the same value, and for the Christian People's Party it is important to stress that all people are unique. Human dignity is infinite for all. Letting human dignity be determined by attributes will quickly lead to a gradation of human dignity and a valuation of all human beings. It is far from the thinking of the Christian People's Party. Respect for life is very central to the Christian People's Party, and this respect is part of our very foundation. Respect for life and human dignity is also one of the fundamental principles of Norway’s cultural heritage, and it impresses society both through legislation and ethical standards. The right to life and the right to freedom are two of the pillars of the Western cultural circle. In these values there is an obligation to safeguard the individual's life and a common obligation to give individual opportunity for freedom and life. The Christian People's Party believes the Constitution should reflect this more clearly. The fundamental respect for life and human dignity must continue to shape our society. The Constitutional Formulaion, as we propose it, reflects the need for legal protection throughout life. The right to life and physical integrity must cover the full range of life — from the first beginning of conception to death. Of course, on the basis of this principle of legal protection, it will be necessary to discuss which situations should justify an exception. However, it must be a separate debate. The point of the Constitutional Bill is to establish a principle of integrity and human dignity so that unborn life also has legal protection. That's what's the point here. The right to life and to personal freedom are fundamental principles of our Western culture, such as: is reflected in the World Declaration on Human Rights and other UN Conventions. From the point of view of the Christian People's Party, this is a principle which must also be expressed in the very Constitution. It will be an important manifestation of the fact that respect for life and human dignity will continue to shape our society. Medical developments have caused one to continue facing new problems both in the first phase of life and at the end of life. People can increasingly choose between life and death than before. Society faces new issues both at the beginning of life and at the end of life. We therefore need a stronger awareness of ethical considerations related to these situations. This, in our view, updates the need for a constitutional basis for designing legislation in some new areas. An increasing number of diseases can already be identified at the stage of birth. The issue of abortion can increasingly be linked to, inter alia: qualitative assessments based on functionality and unwanted sex. We are therefore no longer merely faced with questions about abortion for reasons other than the foetus, for example. the mother; also the characteristics of the unborn life itself, the foetus, are assessed. It is sufficient to demonstrate that we can today use various forms of foetal diagnostics to monitor and, if necessary, to remove foetuses with e.g. disability such as Down syndrome. In addition, many difficult ethical dilemmas arise around the end of life. How long should the medical treatment continue? How long is artificial life to be maintained? For the Christian People's Party, it is important to insist that human life is inviolable from the beginning of life, by conception, to the end of life. It is therefore an important principle to legislate that the right to life applies from conception to natural death. As I was at the beginning, I have deep respect for people making different choices, and that in different stages of life we may all have to make choices in very difficult stages. In the Christian People's Party, we will do everything we can to have good arrangements for those who need it the most, in vulnerable stages of life. In conclusion, I say this because this is deeply compatible with what we are now proposing in the Constitution, that in our society we establish a fundamental value: the right to life, from conception to the end of life, and the inviolability of human dignity. The Christian People's Party is therefore voting against the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e832	It opens for line chord shifts. There is an opportunity to draw a line in constitutional cases, and it has been done in this case. There's no pre-established limit to the number of lines, but the president will see how many lines we open to when we get that far.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e837	I record that the Christian People's Party proposes a definition of life, «from conception». Where in UN documents you got it from, I'm very uncertain about. That's not how it is there, but the Christian People's Party defines it as 'from conception'. As read, this proposal involves a total ban on abortion. Then I am busy asking the representative: if this is adopted, will the Christian People's Party support the criminalisation of women who are taking abortions, and of health professionals who are carrying out abortions?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e842	What we are discussing today are principles that we want to incorporate into the Constitution. We are not discussing today's abortion law or any proposals for changes to it. We therefore say that what is important to us now is to establish a legal protection for life from conception to natural death, and therefore we do not address any possible consequences in view of today's abortion law in Norway. What is mentioned as an opportunity, a total ban on abortion, has not been promoted in this case. It would have to come as a matter of its own, if a qualified majority were now to support our proposal for a Constitutional Amendment. These are two separate issues that we do not want to hold together in the debate today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e847	I find it very, very strange that it is possible to present such a very radical proposal, which is read as a ban on abortion, almost a total ban on abortion, without having reflected on the consequences of it. It is a very remarkable political debate, and it is an irresponsible debate on the Constitution. As read, if adopted, this increase will give instructions to the Government Department of Law to design how women and, where appropriate, those who commit abortion are to be criminalised. I expect that we will get a clear answer to what will be the consequence of this Constitutional proposal with regard to women who have unwanted pregnancy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e852	There are, of course, many constitutional proposals and wordings in the Constitution that have no exact impact on legislation in each area. We have several cases today that also give a direction, which underlines a principle, but how the court and the law should be designed in that area is in no way clear. We have, of course, reflected on the proposal and its consequences, but as I said, we want to come back to it in a separate debate. Now it's important for us to stress that life begins from the conception of. I think we have a common desire, many in this room, to add to other types of measures that can reduce the number of abortions, which are not just about legislation in our society. It is not least about facilitating the delivery of the child, it is about good arrangements to support disadvantaged people in a difficult situation, etc. But abortion law is a matter of its own.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e857	I still find this very strange. I feel that the Christian People's Party is presenting a constitutional proposal that is very radical, and that is in line with the evolution we see in, for example. Alabama in the United States, which I think most people are startled by. But the representative Gruvan is not able to present a single reflection on the consequences of what he is proposing, in case it should go through, and that is an irresponsible way of approaching the Constitution. To put it very concretely, Mr Gruvan, in line with this proposal, believes that, for example: An abortion pill would be illegal?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e862	I think we're moving into a kind of debate that's all about things other than the constitution proposal. The Constitutional Bill is about a principle, and as I have said up to several times, we will have to come back to the consequences of the issue of abortion legislation. For us, it is important to establish a principle that underlines a relationship between what we perceive as life and the society that we want to be with and contribute to creating, that is, that there should be room for everyone. No matter what kind of functionality you have, no matter what kind of challenges you have, we're going to have a society that facilitates it. That is the point of this proposal, and then abortion legislation, possibly next time, will be a different matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e868	There's no limit to the number of lines, and I'm not going to put a line right now, but I think we're going to let go of another replicator, then the representative Petter Eide might be able to get an opportunity afterwards, so that we get a little bit of a change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e873	I missed the Christian People's Party in the previous debate when we debated the right to asylum, which is really about the right to the birth of life. What is important with this proposal is that the principle in Norway today is the right to a medically safe abortion. This Constitutional proposal violates the principle of Norwegian law today, and it is completely different from the other Constitutional proposals we have debated, which want to confirm the existing law in the Constitution. Does the representative of Gruvan see that this draft constitution violates the principle on which today's legislation is based, namely that abortion is allowed in Norway, and that this is not protected from conception?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e880	It's no secret that the Christian People's Party wants an abortion law other than today's. With regard to the relationship between the draft constitution that we have promoted and today's abortion legislation, we have not pointed out exactly what these changes should lead to. We'll get back to that. Here it's about a principle, and that's what we want to establish with our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e885	Does the representative want a new line? He doesn't. Although there's no limit to the number of lines, we're approaching the end.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e892	I just need a clarification, because when we adopt constitutional changes, it's really because we think it's going to mean something. The mine has been very elusive in responding to the possible need for changes in existing legislation to be made to the Constitution. Let me ask another way: does the Countess see that if this Constitutional Amendment were to be passed, would anyone be able to use the opportunity to sue the State under the Constitution to get to know today's abortion law illegally?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e897	As the Basic Law is perceived and discussed in most areas, there is no clear link between the Basic Law and legal decisions in the Norwegian legal system. It is not a one-to-one relationship that necessarily requires a constitutional formula to be used in legal proceedings. But to answer more to the first part of the question to the representative Dag Terje Andersen: It is clear that we want changes in today's abortion permit. So let's do that. When we want to establish the principle of the right to life from conception, we also want it to have some consequences, but we haven't sufficiently determined what consequences it will have. That is why we will not start today a debate on changes in today's abortion law, but we want to promote the proposal for a principle.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e904	Then I have to ask the representative of Gruvan – when he now admits that he wants to change the abortion law, that the Constitutional Bill is in that context, and there are a few countries in the world that are making decisions that abortion, for example. shall be absolutely prohibited, even after the infringement: does the representative of Gruvan see that anyone can perceive the constitutional proposal he is now defending as a handshake to those who would have dramatic restrictions on women's rights under today's abortion law?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e909	We see, of course, that there are many parallel debates on abortion legislation in different countries and countries around the world. A principle like this we now want first and foremost into the Norwegian Constitution, and we must, as I said, come back to the consequences that this can have. Of course, I cannot exclude that anyone can use this in a special way – from banning abortion to other people with strong consequences. But that is not the purpose of our proposal. Our proposal is to establish a principle in the Constitution, and then we have to do the assessments we think are right to ensure a legal protection for the unborn life. But there is no one-to-one relationship in that way that a principle should provide a specific legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e916	Would Andersen's representative have another line?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e921	I think it's best that we give up now.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e926	Karin Andersen, please.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e932	Now the representative Gruvan has said in several answers that he does not know the consequences of a constitutional proposal that has been promoted. At the same time, the representative knows that there is an international fight against women's rights and the lives of women, I would say. The Christian People's Party has also wanted to weaken the abortion law in Norway, i.e. to change the principles of Norwegian law and law. Then I have to ask again, because I did not get an answer in the meantime: does the representative of Gruvan see that the principle underlying this draft Constitution is contrary to the principles of Norwegian law regarding the right to safe and self-determined medically safe abortion in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e939	When we propose that the principle be implemented and incorporated into the Norwegian Constitution, we do so in order to put a principle in a context that we obviously believe should have consequences for Norwegian society – what consequences will we have to return to? We haven't figured it out on a proper enough basis, so we'll have to come back to that if today's outcome against assumption would mean a qualified majority for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e944	So the line chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e949	In this case, I would first like to inform you that the Central Party's representatives have been set free. We're used to it when there are such things. For me, the right to life, like the committee's attitude, is based on human rights and in a number of conventions that I feel that this area is well covered in Norwegian law. We in the Center Party have been together with the Christian People's Party in many matters related to ethical questions, both in the field of bio- and research and in many other issues of value. But in this case, I believe that many people perceive this proposal from the Christian People's Party as an attempt to reverse abortion laws. I hope they don't add up to it, but after the line change now and this race, it's obvious that here's a willingness to make changes we don't see the consequences of. I think in this case we have the protection that man needs, already covered in the law that exists. I am quite clear that I support the Committee's position. I think it is important that we stand on today's constitution, as it is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e960	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e976	In this case, a new section 103 of the Constitution is proposed. The old man's been deleted before. The proposal is that all those who have reached the age of marriage should be able to marry and set up a family, and that they should be able to enter into and dissolve marriage of their own free will. The proposal itself sounds very natural and straightforward. But just as the last time the proposal was up for consideration, it's not the wording or intention it can be disunity around, but simply the idea of legitimizing the family. Today's family can be so much different, without me going into it. In this case, the Committee is divided. The majority of the committee, of which I am a part, recommends that the proposal be rejected. Then I expect that the minority will perhaps promote its own proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e985	I'm going to express our view on behalf of the minority. We believe that establishing the right to create a family is something that will be quite right according to the principles on which the Constitution is based. I am among those who believe that we should not base everything – the Constitution must not become a box of good wishes – but such a fundamental value as establishing a family, so we believe that we belong in the Constitution; I kept saying not least in view of the debate we have just conducted here in the Chamber. Having a liberal attitude to exactly what the rapporteur said, that families today can be so much, is an independent reason to get that Constitutional Party. In the family concept, it's here, as the King said, that some boys are happy with girls, some boys are happy with boys, and some are happy with both girls and boys. That's the diversity we think a modern state should include in the Constitution to establish that it's one's own free choice to decide whether a person wants to marry. It is also relevant in view of completely different discussions we have about coercion or strong influence in the choice of spouse, and the type of debate that is taking place in society today. That is why we believe it is right to legislate on the right to choose whomever you want, and therefore propose that the proposal be accepted, which I address on behalf of the proposers.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e990	The representative, Dag Terje Andersen, then mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e995	SV also believes it is important that we have guaranteed the right of free and of our choice to go out of or into marriage. Human rights are something people have, and against which the state can secure or perpetrate violence. When it comes to inception or getting out of marriage, we know that there's some of it that can be very difficult and conflicty in many cultures, and sometimes it's almost associated with a great danger of choosing yourself. There are quite a number of conservatives and some religious currents in the world now. These are flows that aren't exactly on the equality and free choice side. I've been in a lot of discussions with scribes from different directions, where we've discussed the dilemmas associated with, for example. equality between women and men, how children should be subordinated to their parents, and the right to free religious practice. It's hard to get any answers, because sometimes these rights collide quite fundamentally. There would have been a good answer to this. We don't get that even if we legislate for this, but if we legislate for this, we'll at least crush equality and the right to take these free elections as a principle of Norwegian policy, for how we should deal with it, and for how the state gets an obligation to protect the individual's free choice in these situations. It's important for SV. It must in a way be the bottom plan of a legal society when we know that there are problems of coercion and violence in such situations. It's like, unfortunately, more people lose their lives every year -- or it's not called losing their lives, people are killed because they choose to break out of this kind of relationship. There is an absolute need for the state to protect people's right to free choice both to enter into such commitments, to whom they will enter into such commitments, and to withdraw from such a commitment if necessary. That is why we believe that this is one of the fundamental rights that guarantee a fundamental and very important freedom in the lives of all people.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e1006	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e1022	The draft constitution of Martin Kolberg, Jette F. Christensen, Gunvor Eldegard and Tom E.B. The Holthe we are examining now concerns the change in Section 113(a) in order to give a consistent approach to restrictions on the fundamental rights. Proposalers are of the opinion that it is demanding that this can be fully determined today by case-law, legal literature and political practice. On 18 June 2009, the Presidency of the Grand Duchy decided to set up a selection to investigate and propose a limited revision of the Constitution with a view to strengthening the position of human rights in national law by conferring the status of fundamental human rights. On 19 December 2011, the Committee delivered its report to the Presidentship of Stortinge. This selection, the Human Rights Committee, in its report, proposed a paragraph with a restraint system as a general provision relating to the human rights provisions of the Constitution. The committee shows in its report that many rights may be subject to limitations in terms of the scope of the protection of rights, whether this is due to the interests of the wider society or to the interests of the human rights of others. The proposal we are discussing today is a somewhat adjusted repetition of the earlier proposals that were discussed in Stortinget on 31 March 2016. The proposers base their arguments on the proposals and justifications of the Human Rights Committee and point out that the sample had such a formulation as a prerequisite in its overall review and alignment. The rights provisions of the Basic Law are different. Some of the paragraphs give clear rights, while others primarily determine matters for which it is the responsibility of the State authorities. Most rights may be restricted to some extent if they are in conflict with the human rights of others or with important social interests. In Norway, these restrictions take place primarily through practical adaptations to the activities of the administration and the courts. We believe that this is well maintained today. The Human Rights Committee considered that a restriction group in the Constitution would help to make this practice visible while at the same time providing greater security against arbitrary and arbitrary restrictions on human rights. However, it is important to note that the sample further points out that a general restraint scheme will not capture the need for more intervention in any rights than in others. Instead, this needs to be interpreted into the general restraint system and, in line with today’s legal situation, this will need to be further clarified through practice. Regardless of whether the restraint helmet is designed in general or in relation to each individual rating, it will ultimately be necessary to make a discretionary assessment between different considerations. In such a balance, the threshold for making restrictions varies, not only with the right you face, but also with the extent to which the specific action is taken, but also with the extent to which the restriction is necessary. Today’s practice balances well the rights of the Constitution with the limitations that must be activated when the rights of others or important social interests are affected. Nor can the proposed restraint system be regarded as more clarifying or precise than the fact that it is now necessary to exercise judgement and to establish interpretation through practice. On this basis, Mr Ulf Leirstein recommends that the proposal be rejected. SV has come to the same conclusion, but with some other reason. The Labour Party proposes that the Constitution be approved. I expect that both the SV and the Workers' Party themselves will justify their positions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e1039	In the light of the thorough examination of the rapporteur and of the reasons for the proposal, which is why some of us believe it should be adopted, I do not need to spend a very long time. It is as the rapporteur was in the case, justified in the entirety of the work of the Human Rights Committee, that we, as a natural consequence of it, write a separate paragraph on the rules governing the limitations of the Constitution. The important thing in this proposal is the points on which we propose that there should be no restriction. I perceived the Constitutional Commission and the Human Rights Committee at that time – and that is our opinion – that the main point of this is that at those points, the Storting itself is going to define what cannot be exempted from it, because we believe it is democratically right that it is not left to the legal system to define what should be the understanding of the Basic Law to such an extent. That's where the dividing line goes. So we believe that there are some points that should not be excluded, and we think it is right that the elected body through constitutional treatment is the ones that define it. On that basis, I take up the proposal that the Workers' Party is behind in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e1046	The representative, Dag Terje Andersen, has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e1051	Our assessment is that this is a good proposal, and it follows in many ways the recommendation of the Human Rights Committee that a person should get knee-drenched in the form of the constitution running rules for which – especially human rights – there should not be any restrictions in which to do so. It's an important discussion, all the time that's currently being restricted by Supreme Court practice. When it comes to human rights, we see through EMD, the European Court of Human Rights, that they also have certain loopholes in which human rights cannot be defined, for example. in the case of judicial proceedings, the right not to be punished without law and judgment, to be imprisoned without proper legal proceedings, etc., and also in the case of matters of thought, belief, etc. The human rights selection focused on the type of rights that should not be interfered with, and highlighted in particular the practices of the Supreme Court, where they have taken the view that the right to test would be more intense in limiting the rights that safeguard personal freedom and security than in the case of rights that safeguard economic values. SV supports the proposal very much in the way, but it is especially that an explicit wish to include § 105 in the Constitution in this class, we respond to. The paragraph is about expropriation. That there should be no restriction relating to the question of expropriation, that there should be no assessment of public interest at all, we find it difficult to understand the reason for fundamental law. It would be a rather radical strengthening of that paragraph in a time of great change – we now have, for example, a discussion on the closure of fur animal nutrition – which shows that general interest can occur when the major community decides that changes should be made to § 105. The drama of not adopting this is not great, except that one then does not have a basic law of running rules and a crushing of what is actually a practice today. I believe in principle that the Storting should drop this type of charter in the form of the Constitution, but we withdraw from supporting the proposal, with the foundation of Section 105. We do not see that it complies with the practice that the Supreme Court has implemented, where it has focused on personal freedom and that kind of question. We also see problems in strengthening that type right through basic legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e1064	The establishment of the representative, Mr. Knag Fylkesnes, actually illustrates why this proposal should not be accepted, because this proposal seeks to introduce an innovation in the field of constitutional work and the power of the Constitution. We have pointed out that this opens up a set of A-rules and a set of B-rules in the Constitution – some that apply under any circumstances, and some that can be out of play. The representative, Harberg, was concerned with the problems that arise when these derogations are to be mobilised. Nor is it particularly in the pact with our constitutional tradition to divide the Storting into light and heavy constitutional provisions. When we then hear the SV's reason for not supporting the gliding of the Workers' Party in the Constitutional case, you may be further concerned, because it is precisely that you do not go far enough in putting out central basic laws. In addition, we can discuss the situations in which it is going to happen – which is extremely unclear – but then it appears that a single party does not have such great sympathy with some of the safeguards that the Constitution has put in place in the world in order to secure in all circumstances, difficult conditions. It is not entirely possible to have practical responses to a crisis situation. We have the emergency plan, which means that under such conditions a government will later have to argue that it has acted on the grounds of emergency law. That is the way it should continue, and the point is that there is a much higher threshold to derogate from the rights provisions of the Basic Law than such a relativisation clause as the Workers' Party has so far stood alone. I notice that SV now thinks that the innovation for which the Workers' Party will vote today is basically in order. When we had this matter under consideration in the previous round, they were strong and in principle that the Constitution applies, with the restrictions put forward in consideration of the practicalities – feasibility – and that we do not need a separate derogation to put large and important parts of the Constitution out of play on the basis of more opportunistic party political desires.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e1073	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e1089	As the President said, the draft constitution we are now considering concerns a change in Section 98. The Committee has been divided into a majority who wish to reject the proposal and a minority who wish to join the proposal. As stated in the Committee’s position, the majority are critical of such a provision of the Constitution and doubt that this will help to remedy the situation. On the contrary, the majority believe that such a provision could stimulate an increase in judicial activity, and so that it becomes the courts which actually determine how a law or regulation should be understood and not the legislator. Nevertheless, the majority was clear, including in the comments, that the need for discussion and review of the use of the power to delegate powers to external agencies to design regulations would be underlined. The minority, who are part of this case, wants to find that in a modern, complex society, there is a need for many forms of regulatory intervention in the sphere of freedom of individuals and legal persons. These may come in a contrast where, on the one hand, the desire for social regulation is opposed to personal freedom of action and autonomy on the other. In Norwegian theory of law, it has been claimed from time to time to exist a so-called principle of proportionality when one has discussed which boundaries the State and the bodies acting on behalf of the State must be subject to in order to protect a core area of citizens’ freedom from excessive public intervention. The proposers, and the minority in the Committee, consider that there is a need to clarify that the principle of proportionality is a recognised legal principle, by providing it with an explicit basis as a fundamental legal standard in our constitution. This means that a requirement of proportionality not only becomes a requirement for the content of administrative decisions but also becomes an overall norm for the protection of individual citizens in all public regulation production that interferes with the freedom of action of citizens, whether it be law or regulation. It has been the intention of the proposers of the proposal to require a substantive prior quality assurance which results in decisions which appear less disproportionate to the citizens and legal persons affected by burdensome interference. At the same time, it will be easier to counter-reflective regulation from the perspective of citizens. The minority in the Committee subscribes to what has been stated in the draft constitution of the proposers, and supports the proposal, option 2, so that the first paragraph of Section 98 is replaced by the following: ‘No law, regulation or decision shall intervene in the sphere of freedom of a citizen if the intervention is disproportionate. In assessing what is disproportionate, consideration shall be given to the individual’s disadvantage weighed against the benefits that justify the intervention. Consideration shall be given to the appropriateness of the intervention, where necessary, and to the existence of less interventional instruments to achieve equivalent benefit.’;» I take up the proposal herein.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e1111	The representative Ulf Leirstein has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e1116	Every day, our citizens are constantly charged with new obligations that they themselves have not undertaken voluntarily. There may be a requirement to fulfil obligations to the State or municipality, or a prohibition which limits personal freedom of action. Not all legal obligations are imposed on citizens. We enter into some commitments as individuals with other private citizens, for example: when we order a product or undertake to provide something. While agreements between private parties are typically balanced – benefit against benefit, payment for a service or a good – the legal position we come into when the state imposes legal obligations, characterized by asymmetry. By doing so, I believe that state regulation and intervention will always have an element of power exercised against the person affected as a person. This applies even if the burdens imposed on individuals can be justified on the grounds of community or other citizens. We have to tolerate giving up some of our labour income in order to secure funding for the common good, we have to accept not being able to build without being allowed on certain assumptions, and we have to respect the hygiene requirements in order to run the restaurant. Neither do these cases create fundamental problems for the state to regulate a modern society. The problems may also be that many regulatory provisions are made without concrete and detailed knowledge of how they affect individuals. The proposers, former staging representatives Gunnar Gunnarsen and Erik Skutle and current representatives Heidi Nordby Lunde, Bente Stein Mathisen and the undersigned, have been engaged in a discussion that there should be a so-called general clause. That's what's currently called "backstop". It's a mechanism that makes a public intervention that narrows the freedom of people, at last, not only be measured on the basis of its political reasons and purpose, but also on the basis of whether it has acceptable effects and is actually fair to those affected by regulation. In the preparation of the case and the reasons for the proposal, reference is made to the discussion by Norwegian lawyers over time whether an unlawful practice has already been established, which can be said to be a standard of weighing where the requirement of proportionality is included. There are a number of examples of the fact that the courts have not been strangers to refer to some form of proportionality in their judgments. Very often, the proportionality assessment is used as a generic term for other issues that may relate to indiscriminate discrimination, outside considerations or abuse of authority. However, Norwegian law still lacks an explicit safeguard against the intrusive and disproportionate regulation of individual freedom of action. This also does not create a legal dogmatic theory on the requirement of proportionality, as many of the democratic constitutions we have in Europe have. Norwegian administrative law does not allow courts to impose methodological requirements on how the administration uses its discretion, but is careful to check whether it has been exercised within the framework of the law. We have excellent lawyers, such as Hans Petter Graver and Jan Fridthjof Bernt, who will claim that the proportionality mindset plays a role. The former would claim that we have such an illegal principle, while Professor Graver believes that we do not have such a rule of law in Norwegian administrative law. The proposal, if adopted, will clarify this discussion and will thus establish a constitutional protection against disproportionate interference as a general general principle. The proposers consider that there is a need to clarify that the principle of proportionality is a recognised principle of law, by expressly providing the basis for it as a fundamental rule of law in the Constitution. This means that a requirement of proportionality not only becomes a requirement for the content of administrative decisions but also becomes an overall norm for the protection of individual citizens in all public regulation production that interferes with the freedom of action of citizens, whether it be law or regulation. I would also like to point out other features of the development of the rules which imply a Norwegian rule in this area. Our legal development is influenced by other – external – legal formations, such as international law, human rights and EU law, all of which are given greater space in the Norwegian legal framework. In the areas implementing Union law under the EEA Agreement, there will be no doubt about this, but there will also be an impact in other areas. Both the European Convention on Human Rights and other agreements concluded by Norway provide for proportionality. It was then possible to draw the conclusion that Norwegian citizens could benefit from this. But the absence of a nationally formulated rule makes the implementation of such a norm more dependent on being able to mobilise resources to bring its case before international law enforcement agencies. The legal sources — legal text, processor and practice — are also not immediately available to ordinary people in Norwegian. When the possibility of a disproportionate intervention depends on international legal standards, it could be assumed that this consideration is not given so much importance to the design of national regulatory interventions. The purpose of a Constitutional Code is not more legal cases, but that this consideration is more involved in the design of regulations and interventions regardless of the area of society. In many areas, the sectorised country has given sectoral legislation, which places greater emphasis on implementing sectoral policies than on assessing the overall impact on those affected by the interventions. Therefore, a sector-wide norm is of great value. Two other developments also indicate the need for such an overall restriction of public power and make it more topical. I would like to point out the emergence of administrative penalties and the increased use of powers legislation. Firstly, the extent of administrative penalties has increased enormously. In other words, sanctions to prevent or counteract the behaviour of individuals or legal persons are decided upon by administrative decisions. Several have pointed out the danger of legal certainty in that it is the same body that makes up an opinion on a fact, usually in the form of a claim for infringement of a provision, which also imposes penalties of criminality without any particular possibility of contradicting the victim. This is contrary to a court acting independently of the parties. Similarly, the claim for proven guilt is lower than in other punishments, preferably through a condition of negligence rather than intentional. It will be easier to reproach someone for what they should have done, or have failed to do, on the basis of a standard of care, than to prove that the citizen has actually deliberately wanted to act against the prohibition, decision or regulation. Efficiency has prevailed over legal certainty. At the same time, administrative decisions with a criminal character have been easier to accept for them to be targeted, because they do not appear in the criminal record; they only have to pay a fee, an additional fee and so on. It has been possible to attack such administrative decisions by means of a case against the State, but in reality it is a very high threshold for those who consider themselves to be unlawfully treated to take this step. Process risk is high, and the public has infinite time and resources to keep a process running towards a private party. An important objective of the proposal is to require substantive prior quality assurance which results in decisions that are less disproportionate to the citizens and legal persons affected by burdensome interference. At the same time, it will be easier to counter-reflective regulation from the citizen's perspective. In particular, it is that part of the proportionality assessment that it is the relevant public authority that is responsible for ensuring that the sub-requirements for proportionality are met. This does not mean that there should be no possibility of regulating an area, but it must also be such as to assess the suitability of this measure to achieve the objectives justifying it, whether the measure is necessary to achieve the objectives justifying the intervention, or whether there are other options, where the least interventional instruments are chosen. A fundamental rule of law on proportionality will strengthen the perspective of citizens in the preparation of necessary but comprehensive social regulation. At the same time, there will be a standard for testing that the intervention has been made as gentle as possible to the individual level in relation to the benefits obtained. We can also see the content requirement as an external protection against the possible negative effects of extensive powers legislation because it ensures a non-interventional core for citizens. As early as the 1960s, criticism was raised against the increasing trend in powers legislation, i.e. the use by the Storting of framework legislation allowing the Ministry to issue supplementary regulations. Ideally, the regulations must respect the external framework to which the Storting has had a conscious relationship during the handling of the law, so that the detailed provisions of the regulations supplement the law at a more practical level. However, the problem of legal certainty and predictability arises when the statutory law does not contain clear external boundaries set by the Storting. The producer of rules, preferably a department or a directorate, would be tempted to interpret the warrants they consider to be practical. If too large areas remain within the administration’s own rule development, without the Stortinge has had the opportunity to check whether the regulations remain within the external limits set by the Stortinge, this means that the legislative competence is transferred from the Stortinge to the administration. In that case, it is the opposite of democracy, and it happens as an exceedance of the law of the house and moves outside this or in a fuzzy grey zone. Otherwise, I can refer to Document No. 14 for the 2002–2003 session Report from the Selection Board to assess the control function of the Grand Duchy, point 6.1, Control by delegated legislative powers. This is in the rationale, so I'm not going to use the common time here on it. We, who are behind the proposal, do not regard the proposed constitutional provision as the whole answer to the lack of parliamentary control by delegated legislative powers and large administrative powers, which are increasingly taking place outside the central administration and departments. The proposal will, however, remedy the two-way approach of the administrative decisions to individuals: the protection against disproportionate outbursts of administrative power resulting in disproportionate intervention will be reinforced in concrete terms, while a disproportionate standard will impose greater care on the administration in the design of new legislation. I refer to the concrete design that the proposals have been given in two alternatives, and I promote both in accordance with what is practice, in order to give the Storting a choice. Finally, I note that the proposal does not have the prospect of obtaining a majority in favour of being incorporated into the Constitution today. It is a good thing that constitutional changes, in addition to the delays in the procedures for change that we have wanted, will also require political maturation of the parties and perhaps the representatives. Constitutional changes to be adopted appear to have to take the form of cross-policy initiatives, preferably after the work of the Commission. The inherent competitive relationships between the lots raise the threshold for cross-block cooperation. You're against what you haven't initiated yourself. But if the proposal does not bring together a majority today, the chance will take place later. The person working on the Basic Law must have great patience and a long time perspective. We have both.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e1158	The right-wing trustee, with a constitutional bill that advocates a ban on the intervention of citizens in the sphere of freedom. Then one would think that most of it was covered up for injustices that were done against people. Or is it not that simple? The proposers state that they are concerned about developments, which means that it is difficult to follow up on everything adopted by regulations and regulations. I couldn't have been more similitude. It is not easy to get the full overview of the consequences of these rules for people. This is not least because, here at Stortinget, we give power to the Department – how to develop regulations for law enforcement. But, as the majority have noticed, there are also some proposals that will not solve the major challenges. I'm afraid that it'll create a more inconspicuous situation. The biggest challenge for individuals today is that we are constantly transferring authority to different directorates and others, so that one gets a long decision-making path in which one fails to have political responsibility for what is agreed. It's a little strange that this proposal comes from the Right, the party that I believe is constantly thinking that all the rules and regulations that come from Europe, the EU and the EEA should be implemented without us having a proper assessment of it in this house. One is trying to get it twisted so little that we don't have to take care of the Constitution. Had one just tried to challenge – where one actually exploits the spaces we have in the various cooperation agreements we have, where we really go through and see if it's for the benefit of individuals in Norway – instead of always letting us just go with whatever comes! Had we taken advantage of that space of action, I think most people would have felt much more confident that it is the best people to take care of. I just want to refer to what Minister of Finance Siv Jensen said after the year's elections to the European Parliament. She said that the election was a signal that people are tired of supranational governance and sceptical of this. We in the Central Party agree, but unlike the Minister of Finance and the Government, we believe that the answer to this is to exploit the space of action we have, not to slavishly conclude all agreements.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e1171	Two points for the representative Bjørke. He begins by recognising the problem description of the fact that the Storting does not have a full overview of the delegated legislative authority that we give away from us through the extensive use of the framework and leaves to the bureaucracy or the office to complement in more detail. Then it is used as an argument against a purely protective provision that civil action should not be seen as being either concretely unreasonable or disproportionate. I would like to say that if we first agree that the Storting does not properly control the use of delegated legislative powers, it must at least be better to have a safeguard provision to avoid the greatest results of concrete injustice to the person who is subject to a public intervention – a burden, a duty to the State or to the municipality. If the proposal does not solve the fundamental problem completely, it is at least – let's say – a seat belt, so that in case of collision, it comes from the collision better than without a safety belt. The second is Bjørk’s surprise that we, who are in favour of European cooperation, are also calling for a Norwegian rule, a legal norm in Norway, in the Basic Law, which is just using some of the balancing standards – which we also see happening internationally. A typical example is the European Convention on Human Rights. The advantage of this is that we can then have a Norwegian rule of law development, and that a Norwegian theory of law can also be developed in the light of Norwegian circumstances, which, I believe, will also prevent and prevent our citizens from going to the European Court of Human Rights in order to use such a standard of fairness or balance on disproportionateness. It must be better to be able to solve this within our own legal system. It also means that we guarantee citizens real access, because, after all, there is a lower threshold for using the Norwegian legal system than for looking to the rest of the world to make use of such a balancing standard as the proposers see in the Constitution. With all due respect, I do not see that Bjørke's criticism of the article is particularly logical, and with his fundamental attitudes towards the European Union, and probably also his goodwill towards individuals, the centre party in this case should vote in favour of the Constitutional Law.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e1180	It's very interesting to join in and discuss the general principles and what bearer of Norwegian society – our Constitution. I also believe that the Committee has so far explained the link between objectives and means, the dilemmas between individuals, communities and societies, the freedom of individuals from the space of freedom of society, and not least the framework of the community and how the rule of law is to enforce this in practice. It is very interesting how in Norway we have good systems for processing our political processes – propositions, NOUs, hearings, settings, etc. – and, as it is also pointed out, there are basically extensive processes that we can also make changes to the Constitution. People can influence politics through the parties and the opening up of elections. Moreover, it is important that the judicial authority should exercise its profession and juss to enforce the intentions of the legislator, and that the administration of regulations should be followed up and be in line with the will of the Storting. It is also our responsibility as representatives to follow it up. Here I would like to point out that the government parties have a great responsibility to manage through their majority here in Stortinget. disproportionate interference is not desirable on the part of any party and that is not necessarily the basis for voting against this proposal. The representative Tetzschner mentions in his statement that they will regulate the sum of these interventions, and he is far within the EEA as a topic. This year, 25 years have passed since Norway said no to the EU, and we can be happy to celebrate, because Norway would probably have looked different if we had gone into the EU. The EEA was established at the beginning of the 1990s as a temporary solution. It was only the Christian People's Party that arranged for this to be permanent, and they could knock on their breasts and say that it was really right in it. There was concern in the economy, and there was a need to cooperate. There is no doubt that it is today, but we have to ask ourselves what role laws and legal principles play in combating globalisation and governance across countries. We see strong flows, and the European Parliament's choice, which has just been made, is a cross of thought in itself as to how we enforce the law in Norway. It is also the paradox I want to reinforce, namely that the Right is calling for disproportionate action without asking critical questions by including EU regulations and legislation without further assessments. Here Norway should stand up more for itself, stand up more for the interests we have, for our citizens, and manage the law more responsibly and more actively than we do today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e1197	Only a brief remark to the representative, Mr Tetzschner, when he says that we are against European cooperation: the centre party has never opposed European cooperation, but we want to have a cooperation where we can assess the various agreements we enter into and decide on. So if you should have been in favour of this constitutional change, I don't think it's the Constitution that's the problem if people feel neglected, if they feel that they're being taken care of, but how we set up the law, how we create a system where we can get a connection between who makes the laws, how it's done, and who is responsible for how it works on the individual citizen. It's the way people get an idea of what's fair and not.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e1204	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e1220	As the President just said, we are dealing with the draft Constitution on Section 95 new third paragraph. As stated in the draft Constitutional Law, the proposers believe that the fundamental law review in 2014 did not give sufficient consideration to the consideration behind the original provision when writing the previous provision in Section 98, the principle that the State should not charge access to legal aid, out of the Constitution. Firstly, the aim of the proposal is that people do not have to pay VAT on legal fees. However, they should also not risk having to pay VAT on the salaries of lawyers when these are payments for services provided by lawyers in connection with legal proceedings. A person who addresses a lawyer and asks for the lawyer's assistance to promote e.g. a claim for compensation, must pay the lawyer a fee which today entails a supplement of 25 p.m. VAT. The proposers of the Constitutional Bill do not consider it reasonable that the State should serve this state activity: the court. The Committee has assessed the proposal and is unanimous in its conclusion, which I shall briefly justify. The Committee points out that the provision of sport in the old Basic Law § 98 was effectively lifted by the amendment of the Sportel Regulation in 1830. Thus, Paragraph 98 of the Constitution had in practice only historical interest when it was repealed in 2014, as the Committee sees it. The Committee points out in the preamble that legal services are generally covered by the VAT Act and considers that any changes to the legislation should be regulated by the VAT Act in the usual manner. The Constitution should be reserved for the more fundamental aspects and should not regulate the details of certain types of taxation. The Committee would therefore propose that proposals for the new third paragraph of Section 95 should not be accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e1235	It is said that the votes of the Committee were more impressive than the arguments for voting this proposal. Now it's often the case in these constitutions – which I was in the place of – that when the individual representatives come with them, it takes a while before they join the parties, and eventually several parties, perhaps eventually across the block boundaries, will realize that there are some points here. As it now looks, today we will not adopt constitutional changes that strengthen the situation of the small person towards the state – if we think about the previous round – with proportionality. We also don't meet the little man or woman by going into that it should be easier to get right, not just to be right. And that's what this proposal is all about. There may be some hopeful leads when the case rapporteur says that there are objections to using the Basic Law for this regulation that is leading the majority, and that of course gives hope to have a discussion in connection with the VAT law. Then we'll see how far we're going. The background here is, at least, access to legal testing in a society which is increasingly permeated by legal regulations, where individuals must stand up and defend their positions against very strong parties, not least in the state and local authorities. That's the basic thing here. Indeed, the proposers do not see access to the courts as a personal desire to increase their personal consumption, so we can say about some consumer goods that are naturally added to 25 pst. value added tax on. Here it is in order to defend and implement the similarity of the law that we hold in many other contexts that we have in the country. But in this area, we see that it's de facto a big difference. Firstly, there are no limitations on resources when the State or the municipality has first settled on its backs and will not enter into a settlement, and the private party, whether a company, a family or an individual, has entered into a legal dispute with the public. An exemption from VAT would make this entry ticket somewhat cheaper, even if it is just as full as a process risk. The second difference I would like to make is that in the case of traders who are involved in legal disputes, they will be able to deduct VAT from VAT in their accounts for services used, as legal aid, when they are within the scope of their accounting obligations. What we stay behind with is that the individual individual who wishes to have legal access has to pay – even pay the counterparty in the cases where the State is a counterparty. This is likely to lead many people not to claim the rights that the Stortinget, for example, has intended to grant to the rightholder. We believe that using the Basic Law or the VAT Act to ensure such access to legal remedies can be a matter of technique. But we want to raise this debate, because I don't think it's over. There is an inequality that affects the individual or traders seeking legal assistance – not least if you are so unhappy to get state and municipality as a counterparty to a case where it is not these who bear the costs. Finally, I would like to say that the historical reference made by the proposers, the previous provision that the State cannot take sportsmen for legal purposes, is just to point out that when the State was small and did not have so many revenues, the value of not charging ordinary people access to the courts. Now the state is completely different, powerful and rich, and I think it means that we should think through how we ensure our fellow citizens a good access to trying their legal issues in a cheaper way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e1254	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e1270	The matter we now have to deal with, and the title the president referred to, usually doesn't lead to very much commitment. This is also what it looks like today – in the press department, among other things. – but it is nevertheless a big and important matter. I want to start by thanking the Committee for good cooperation, because we have managed to succeed in something that is almost across a unanimous position. In the case of comments to the individual departments, the setting is unanimous in all areas. I would like to extend a special thanks to our committee secretary Thomas Dam and, if I may say so, to my adviser Marianne Seip, who has had a huge job going through a lot of things. It's a big deal. We have dealt with 768 previous decisions, of which 470 – well over half – are still open, i.e. not implemented by the government. We, and especially those who have worked for us, have had a heavy job because there has been a great deal of distance between the feedback given by individual departments in connection with Prop. 1 S, i.e. the budget proposal, and the message we have now received from the Prime Minister's office, Meld. St. 12. There are a large number of matters that the departments have mentioned with merit, which have been dealt with in the individual specialist committee, but many of the issues are ignored in the message that we are now dealing with. Therefore, it is a unanimous committee that requests that next year’s notification also include previous and unimplemented decisions from previous sessions. Although the case today is about 2017–2018, a large part of the case is from 2016–2017. But it is a reality that very many decisions from before 2016 are not closed, and it has been a great job to find out. We ask unanimously that, until next year, the government should also explain to them. So I would like to remind you of what was said in the handling of the report of the Frøiland Committee. Then we are back to 2002–2003, which is the basis for the way we now deal with request and investigation decisions. Then it was said: ‘The Committee would stress the importance of follow-up to the decision of the Storting by the responsible authorities. The population must be able to rely on the decision of the Storting. If they cannot, it will in the long term undermine the belief in our political system.' When more than half of the decisions have not been followed up, I would argue that there we are now. It is therefore a very serious matter. To say a little about the background, we can say that there are too many request decisions in Stortinget. There are never as many request decisions in Stortinget as in the last major session. I am concerned that by doing so, we are undermining the authority we have as a magnificence to emphasize the seriousness of the collapse decisions that are being taken, and the government's obligation to follow them up. It's a responsibility we have in the opposition. It is also the case that some of the decisions in Stortinget are relatively weak. For example, when we make decisions here in the hall where we ask the government to assess, there's a chance that the government says they've assessed it, and that wasn't a good idea. Then they have actually followed up the decision to collapse. That doesn't give the whole thing the authority it's supposed to have. Then it is important to stress that the many request decisions that we now have are not just from the opposition and with the support of the Christian People's Party and previous elections with the support of either the Left or the Christian People's Party. No, many request decisions are the result of the government's own budgetary procedure in the Storting, where it has developed a tendency that, where minority parties have flagged their positions as heavy demands before entering into negotiations, it ends up with a request decision as a patch on the wound that they did not get through in the economic negotiations. Here we must all take responsibility for the decisions. The large number of request decisions is primarily an expression of a weak government. In the last whole year of the government of Stoltenberg, to which it is constantly and daily referred from the current government when there are major debates, there were 25 petitions. In 2017–2018, it was 429. I have all expressed our responsibility for the content of the decisions, but it is a clear expression of a weak government when one has not more clearly clarified political conditions in order to avoid the kind of request decisions that we see a number of. When there are so many decisions, and not least when such a large proportion of the decisions are not followed up by the government, it is to the seventh and, last but not least, an expression of a lack of respect for the Storing. It is, as I said, in many areas, and especially in the case of the mention of the individual department, so that there is strong criticism from the Stortinget, and that from a unanimous staging. When we use the term "critical", we do a lot based on the Riksrevision vocabulary, and those who know that world of control know that there is a high threshold to use this term. There is agreement within the Committee on the Ministry of Transport. It is claimed in Meld. St. 12 that they had 18 decisions. The Ministry's own proposal to the Storting in connection with the budget said there were 20 decisions, and the whole 8 of them, almost half, are open. It calls on the Committee to be critical. The same applies to the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality, as reported in Prop. 1 S that they had 69 decisions. Only 44 of them are reports from the Prime Minister's Office in connection with Report. St. 12, and the whole 37 of them are open. The Ministry of Oil and Energy announced 21 decisions. Only 18 are mentioned in the government's message. Of them, 16 things are open. Then I stress that there are essentially issues that the departments say are open. That's what we're saying. In the Ministry of Economic Affairs, the government is informed that there are 29 decisions, but the Ministry of Economic Affairs pointed to 31 in its budget proposal. There are 30 open previous decisions that have not been followed up by the government. There are more decisions from the Stortinget that have not been followed up than the government reports at all by decision, when we go through the cases thoroughly. The Ministry of Climate and Environment has announced in the message that there were 56 decisions that had not been followed up. They say in their budget proposal to the Storting that it was 86, and 58, more than what they announced they have as a decision, which has not been followed up, when we count up the two seasons that are involved, and decisions from before the two periods that the government has not mentioned. I'm going to allow myself to say – and then I'm going to say it on my own, but I have reason to believe that it can be a slightly broader view – that the Environment Ministry is just a department that Stortinget has often reacted to because we feel that they don't follow up what the Stortinget has actually said. It was the theme of the robberies debate, and it is now the subject of a matter that we are dealing with in the Committee on the Border Agreement with Finland in terms of fishing in the Tanava Strip. There is an impression that there is resistance to follow-up to the decision of the Storing and attempts to avoid them. The Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation has announced in the message that there were 35 decisions, and in the proposition that there were 40. Twenty-two of them are open. In the Ministry of Culture it has been announced 25. In the proposition it was said 39, and it's 32 open, so more than what was mentioned by the Ministry of Culture that opened. In the Ministry of Knowledge, it's the same picture. More than half are older than in 2016–2017. There are 54 decisions that are still open. So to what is highly critical, and it is also unanimous from the committee. We have used that term in two departments. One is the Ministry of Health and Welfare – simply because there are very many decisions that have been taken, but especially, of course, because there are many decisions, 88 in all, that have not been followed up. An example of a case that has been an open part of the social debate all along is that the Stortinget has asked in Decision No. 545 that we should get a separate case about the base structure of the air ambulance, a well-known political issue in the open debate, but the government has not delivered such a case to the Stortinget. Then we have the Ministry of Justice and Defence, where we also say that it is highly critical. There the message says there's 77 cases, but the proposition from the department to the budget showed 106. That's 67 open-ended decisions. For the Ministry of Justice, one of the decisions is the follow-up to the police reform and the demand from the Storting for a real strengthening of the Länsmannskontoren – the remaining ones. That's what our representative in the trade committee comes up with. Just in the Ministry of Justice, we may have been given some of the explanation of why it is as it is. I heard the Minister of Justice at Dagsrevyen here a while ago. It was then about recording equipment in the courts, which is considered important in most countries, and which has been considered important by the Storting, for that has been said by Stortingen that we should have. The Minister of Justice at Dagsrevyen then said that that decision had to be assessed against other priorities. And there's the problem. If it is the approach of the Departments that a decision in the Grand Duchy on what to do is something to consider and consider against other proposals, the relationship between magnificence and government is totally crooked. There are two things to do with a request decision: either follow it up or submit proposals to the Stortingen to take a new decision. It is the only way that the type of decision can be dealt with, not as more or less input into the ongoing debate with the Council of State. I have used the term'solberg parliamentarism', such as: means that one avoids the difficult political debates. As the committee has asked, because it would be natural for the Prime Minister to be present here today. That's the way to report. St. 12 is the only case the Prime Minister in the course of the year delivers to the Stortinget, and we have made it clear that she should be present, especially when we are in a situation that is more dramatic than ever in the case of poor follow-up of government decisions. But the Prime Minister has therefore chosen to do something else, just as she refuses to participate in the debate. Now I saw it was probably 80-90 who was asked to participate in a debate on district policy, which has been rejected by everyone who has been asked. The method of avoiding political debate, especially in relation to the Great Britain, is another serious democratic problem that we should address. It's a rash of disrespect for the Storting. It's a rash of arrogance to the Storting, and it's really scandalous that the Prime Minister doesn't appear here and is involved in the debate on the only matter she brings to the Storting every year.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e1322	I would first like to thank the Committee on Good Cooperation. This is a major and demanding matter, a very comprehensive matter, and the case-rapporteur, with the assistants he has had from the Committee Secretariat and within himself, has done a formidable job. That's very good. As I said, it's a big and demanding case, it's hard to get a full overview, and I think I'll say that we're still a little bit looking for how to deal with these issues in an even better way. We must continue to work to involve the technical committees in checking how request decisions are being followed up. We are then dependent on equal treatment in the trade unions. This time we have sent it out to the professional committees for feedback, but it has not been treated equally, and it makes it difficult for us to follow up in a holistic and good way. We also need to make it so that once the expert committees have dealt with it in a good and equal way, we have to deal with their conclusions as to whether or not matters have been queried. Then, in the light of such an approach, we must think that we can deal with what is left in the future in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. Something's been whispered, something's been partially whispered, or a plan for follow-up, and something's been processed. I must be allowed to state that the claim that more than half of the cases have not been dealt with does not take into account those who have been questioned in the past. The implementation rate of the government is well over 70 pst. Then one can discuss whether it's good, whether the number is too low, or how many things that are at any time for treatment when it's so large volume. But the right is going to be right, the 50 pst. refers to those currently mentioned and not to those who have been signed out. Of course, the big challenge, which reinforces the strain of dealing with the request decisions and their reports, is the abnormally large volume we have. There I would like to join the rapporteur himself in pointing out that we in Stortinget must look after and think through the use of the request decision, so that it is clear what we are asking for when we request. And it has to be real, we have to ask because the Stortinget believes that this should be looked at more closely, not as a result of negotiations where it became the easiest way out. We have to take care of that. So the government has to be careful to have good and clear routines. I think I would say that from any government, regardless of colour and block, there must be clear feedback on the status and follow-up, and there should be some time limits for when one must give feedback. I often record that it is a dissatisfaction that the receipt did not have the correct answer. A receipt with an answer that you do not want is also a receipt. What's serious is the cases that you don't get any kind of answer. The Government Parties have chosen to deal with the consideration and feedback of the Scientific Committees. Government lots are also critical to the fact that there is so much left open or pending. We're with the committee on that, and we're extra critical where the receipt takes a very long time, very many years, or where the volume is extra large. Those cases have been examined by the applicant's rapporteur. That being said, a follow-up of as large a volume as it has been in recent years requires great resources. One should ask himself whether it would be right to mannify in the departments to avoid such a storm of request decisions, both precise and imprecise. At the same time, I record that many of the parties that are now criticising their failure to follow up have been involved in proposing reductions in administrative resources. It's also so that it's not just inserting people to sign out. It shall have both experience and competence to follow up the request decisions, so this is a demanding situation. Summaries: Yes, we are involved in the criticism that it takes too long, and we believe it is highly critical when the government does not accept old things. There are some things that have been lying so long that they should undoubtedly have been signed out in another way. And we think the government has to assess the effort where the volume is greater, to get it out. However, the government has significantly improved its follow-up and reporting. We're on our way to a system that gives feedback to Stortinget in a better way than ever before. The government has initiated a dialogue on how to follow up and sign out, and that dialogue should be intensified. It should be of interest to all the specialist committees, and we should have an interest in that in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. So the Storting together, in all colors and positions, must contribute to the restoration of its real and intended function by using them properly and correctly, and the government must sign them out in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e1341	I would like to begin by thanking the Committee and the Chairman of the Committee as rapporteur for a good work. He did so well for many of these matters that I do not have to go into each case. This is serious if you have not handled this much. I am pleased that we, as the Joint Committee, as well as the representatives of the Government Party, are so clear on the criticism that has been presented. It should be extra clear when we are a Joint Committee. There is a great deal of problem that there are many appeal decisions. Yeah, it's a challenge. There's no doubt that there's a challenge in how to deal with it, but maybe one should ask the question: When a number of people feel the need for so many decisions, do we have a government that actually doesn't take the bulk of the population seriously? Otherwise, perhaps many such decisions should be unnecessary — if the government gave a clear signal that these were matters they were working on. One can't just see that there's a lot of decisions here, that's actually one reason why it is. I would also like to support the committee leader in the view that it would have been natural for the Prime Minister to be here today and to be in this debate. There's a lot of single points one could go into, but with so many points and so many things lying here, I think I'll try to stick to it superior. It's serious if it's a perception that the government'sorts' matters after they think it's a good thing to take hold of or not. That's not good for democracy. It's not good for how the Storing is perceived, if that's the way it is. At least it seems like this to me when it concerns many of the issues, that with the issues they think it's appropriate to deal with, it goes much faster than when there are matters where they think it's wrong. It's actually a huge majority, and then one has to expect the government to follow it up and handle it properly and within reasonable time.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e1352	From my simple calculation, there are now 440 unfortunate things that the government has not followed up, and that stretch far back in time – at least that’s what we’ve been able to find. A heroic effort has been made by both the committee secretariat and the case-speaker with the adviser to dig up all the issues that have not been studied, i.e. several decisions in the Stortinget that have not been carried out. I also found that the review of which departments themselves report as a call for proposals does not match the reality. There has been a process in the control committee where we have added many important discussions just to stick to the core of this matter. What we're going to do here is to be a follow-up clock and check that a number of decisions have been followed up in the cases where the trade unions are some of the things they haven't been followed up. For my party, there are many cases in which we disagree that appeal decisions are actually followed up. It also appears through the reports of the Scientific Committees of the Control Committee, but only on the basis of the cases where there is a majority saying that one has not followed up the decisions. That means that a multiple at Stortinget thinks that there are no clear decisions here that followed up. So we're going to have 440 pieces. So one can just imagine the maybe a little humorous or embarrassing side of this: how many cake parties are behind these 440 decisions? In other words, how many different groups in society have fought for a long time to make a decision and win – they have got a majority on the Storting to be on it and to adopt it – they have been understood and heard, and then nothing happens? In Stortingen, a great deal of democracy will be at the head. One thing is that, as representatives, it's problematic that what we've been fighting for has not been followed up when it's been a plurality behind it, but the Storting is a collection of decisions that the whole community has very often been involved in. So here's a multiple of them, and then the government hasn't followed up. Then we begin to get into something very serious: the basis for the government's work when one does not follow clear decisions in Stortinget. The other side of this, which is also problematic, is that previous plural decisions have not been mentioned here because one has tried to reconstruct the staging message just to deal with the staging session 2017-2018, knowing that there is a tailhang of things from the past – back to 2013 etc. - which has not been followed up. The question then becomes: are things adopted and forgotten consciously here in this room, or is the bad system for this? Does one perhaps not have control of this in the departments – what is happening in Stortinget, is there no one who has proper responsibility for it? The representative of Svein Harberg was concerned that one might not have the capacity to follow this up. We can only speculate. I think the most important thing for the future is that if the government sees that they will not be able to follow the Storting's plural decision, the Storting must know about it and make adjustments or changes. The Government has every right to deliver messages to the Storing by means of various cross-sections, in connection with budgetary processes, through distributions, letters to the Committee, etc. – one has all the possibilities to notify the Storting that one has encountered problems with the implementation, but this has not happened here. I want to illustrate this with an experience I've had: I recently had a meeting with one of the government councils. He was not the government council when this decision was made, but I reminded him of a certain decision from 2014, which is also mentioned in this case, and that it was not followed up. It was a fairly small change, but it was important. Neither he nor anyone else in the political lease nor anyone in the department's lease was aware of this decision. My suspicion is that the democratic deficit we see here, which is very critical, is the result of a failure to take the orders from Stortinget seriously. It is in itself a deep problem for Norwegian democracy. We have a form of governance in Norway today where there does not have to be a parliamentary plurality in the governing party, one only needs to have a plurality in the Stortinget. This means that with a minority government, it will – inevitably – happen that one gets quite a number of appeal decisions. It's part of the agreement, it's the basis for a minority government -- one must follow it up, one cannot just look past it. All the time we have such a system in Norway, this needs to be followed up. If not, this will be a major democratic problem that Stortinget basically cannot live with.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e1371	I will reply in my article to some of the criticisms that arise from the general setting, and come to my specific area of responsibility in conclusion. The government conscientiously follows up the request decisions of the Storting and also has a high level of implementation. The proportion of implementation referred to by the control committee in its setting does not, in our opinion, give a proper picture of this as it does not include all decisions on the basis. The level of implementation is also linked to the way the Storting chooses to interpret the framework for published decisions. The Government agrees with the concerns of the Control Committee as regards the growth in the number of pending request decisions and looks forward to cooperation with the Stortinge to reduce the number both by obtaining an effective follow-up and recognition of existing decisions and by reducing access to new decisions. The government has used considerable resources to improve reporting to the Storting on the request decisions. The budget proposal now sets out a full list of remaining decisions with clear feedback and on further progress. It is important, then, that the Storting undertakes and tries to look at a process in which a good response to the government in the budgetary procedure can also provide a basis for the presentation of the main message. There have been 1560 decisions in the last four years, while 143 decisions were adopted in comparison with the last four years of the previous government. It is important that a critical assesses the consequences of such a development. The Chairman of the Committee quoted from the review of the report of the Frøiland Committee, and I would also like to do so: ‘The division of responsibilities of the Constitutional Act is based on the adoption of a general decision by the Stortinget [[law, budget, etc.]] The Government also agrees with the representatives of the Right and the Advance Party and the independent representative of Leirstein, who point to the challenge of resource use in the follow-up to the request decision. The amount of decision itself means that one has to assume that it takes a little longer to follow them up. Then it's not the government's policy to increase the number of employees in the department to deal with this. We also see that parts of the opposition are clear that one does not want. Both the Government and the Grand Duchy should contribute to reducing the number of pending decisions. We, on the part of the government, shall contribute by prioritising the implementation of the decisions. There has been some discussion about the reporting itself. We have made a significant effort to improve reporting to the Storting regarding the request decisions. The main action has been standardised feedback on all outstanding decisions in the annual budgetproposals, and it has also provided clarification on how the government proposes to close its reporting. The government sees that the control committee has recorded these improvements and is pleased that the control committee in the configuration also commends this work. Then we record that there are some general points where the control committee points out that it is not satisfied with the reporting. One point is, among other things: not informing of decisions not implemented from any previous session, but only from the last two sessions. I would like to stress that this year there is no new definition of which decisions are referred to in the Storing Communication. This limitation has been in force for several years, and the Stortinget has not previously objected to it. The new one of the year is that there is more extensive reporting in the state budget than before. Overall, the government has therefore provided for more comprehensive reporting, and it is difficult to understand that it should provide a basis for criticism. The government will continue to work to improve reporting, but at the same time will have to ensure that there is no greater degree of duplication of reporting both in the government budget and in the key message of request decisions than we have today. Large resources are also being used in reporting today. The government will continue to add that the State budget is the document that has the most comprehensive reporting. The Committee has referred to several comments from the minority in various expert committees that point out that the observations made during the budgetary procedure are not considered to be formal control by the Stortinge on the follow-up of decisions by the government. The government's starting point is that the implementation of the decision must take place together with the policy in the individual areas, and similarly that the consideration of matters as a starting point is reported to the Scientific Committee in the budgetary context. The follow-up to the request decisions will therefore also be referred to in large-scale documents other than this notification of requests. As I said, the main document will be the State budget. The feedback provided by the Storting in connection with the State budget will also be the basis for the report provided in the annual notification of the request decision. That was also the reason why the Storting asked five years ago for the notification to be moved to January. This is also a matter for the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs two years ago, when a joint committee commented as follows: ‘In doing so, the Committee would stress at the same time that it is important that the technical committees in their budgetary positions have a real assessment of whether the request decisions have been properly followed up.’;» The government then records, and I see that several members of the committee have also been involved in the debate, that there are a little different practices in the committees on how thoroughly the request decisions are dealt with in the budgetary procedure. Of course, it also creates challenges for everyone who is going to do this. In the vote, the majority of the control committee criticises the government for the non-implementation of decisions. It is clear that in that summary, there are a number of different types of issues that merge. I would like to make a few comments on this criticism. In the opinion of the majority of the Control Committee, more than half of the Grand Duchy’s request decisions have not been implemented. The government thinks this is misleading. The Committee has calculated the proportion on the basis of the decisions referred to in the State budget. Let me then remind you that decisions from previous sessions followed up in previous years are not mentioned in the budget. So when these aren't part of the basis for the committee's calculation of the percentage, we get a wrong calculation. What we see in all of the six large-scale sessions that the setting has mentioned, including the last large-scale session, is that there are 1 507 decisions taken with 1 667 decision points. Of these, 1,201 were followed up. This gives a share of implemented decisions of well over 70 pst. It is therefore misleading to give the impression that less than half of the decisions are being followed up. Of the decisions that have not yet been followed, well over half are taken in the last major session. Many of these are at the bottom of the last big session, and it is neither realistic nor desirable that these should be queried at the beginning of the next session. So if we ignore these from the last magnification session, the number of decisions made is close to 85 pst. Furthermore, it must be expected that many of the decisions require significant time for implementation. The government assumes that when the Stortinget takes a decision, the Stortinget expects this to be followed up conscientiously. The government assumes that the investigation and administrative instructions should be followed, and that matters should be investigated and heard in the usual way. This has also been done in the past by the Monitoring Committee. It is therefore quite natural and necessary that follow-up of individual decisions can take several years. It is also the case that a large number of decisions we have seen over the last few years have in themselves led to a longer follow-up, and it is therefore necessary that the government and the Stortingen cooperate in reducing the number of decisions that require follow-up. It is a major coincidence in which proposals the government believes it should be further reported on and on which proposals the Stortinget wants further reporting. However, there are some decisions where the Storing does not accept the government’s final reporting proposal. This is in most cases not because the Storting reached a different conclusion from the government, but is justified by the fact that the Storting wants more reporting related to the request decision itself. I'll give you some examples of this. There are several examples of the opinion of the Control Committee that a separate decision on conversion should have been proposed. Thus, the control committee does not disagree with the substance of the government’s feedback, but considers it to be given in the wrong form. The Government agrees that, in some cases, a new decision repealing the old request decision is appropriate. In other cases, the intention behind the decision may be fulfilled, but it has been done in a way other than that proposed in the decision. The Government has taken the view that in these cases one should not have a new decision. This applies, for example: Decision No 322 in the 2017–2018 Grandningsseion, where the Stortinget will have a review of the unfinished reform based on income data from 2015 and 2016. The Ministry has reviewed this based on the 2015 revenue figures and explained why it is not appropriate to do the same with the base in 2016 figures. In this case, the Supervisory Committee considers that an adjusted decision should have been submitted, which would have already been followed up by the previous assessments. Another type of example is the decisions in which Stortinget asks the government to implement something in connection with an event in time. This may, for example: be considered in a forthcoming wholesale notification. Even if the government states that this will be done, and for example: has given a mandate to the underlying agencies, the Storting does not accept that the reporting can be completed. An example of this is Decision No. 681 in the 2017-2018 Storingssesion, under the Ministry of Transport. Here it is requested that the government identify the main export routes in the context of the roll-out of the national transport plan. The Ministry has given a mandate to the ETA on such monitoring, so that this will be carried out in the next roll-out of the national transport plan. However, the Supervisory Committee considers that the decision cannot be challenged and that the approach in this and similar cases would require reporting on the decision to continue – despite the government and the Stortinge agree on the follow-up, and that the Stortinge would have a good opportunity to comment on this and on the follow-up of the government when they have the ordinary case under consideration. The last example is issues in which the government has given an assessment of issues to which the Storting subscribes. The Committee will not question the matter because the decision has asked for a separate case. The Committee then appears to believe that the matter must either be re-examined as a separate major document or that the request decision is proposed to be amended by the adoption of a separate case. I come to an example of that when I answer one of the issues that have been raised in my area. In summary, there are many reasons why there are still many decisions that have not been followed up. The main reason is the growth of new decisions and the time needed to follow them up. On the one hand, this is also due to the interpretation put forward by Stortinget, whether decisions can be regarded as quantifiable or not. However, the proportion on which the control committee has based itself gives a small comprehensive picture of the real situation. The Government agrees that it is important and appropriate to try to reduce the number of requests pending before the government and that the government has a great responsibility to ensure that the decisions are followed up and implemented. Finally, until the single decision drawn up in my field by the Chairman of the Committee, Decision No. 545, on the base structure of the air ambulance service. This Decision was referred to in the budget proposal. The decision has been followed up in such a way that health regions have been asked to review the air ambulance structure. The review is discussed in the budget proposal and shows that 98 pst. The population of the country is reached within 45 minutes, while the national target is 90 pst. It also concludes that there is a need to establish a new indoor air ambulance base, but that its location should await the debate on the hospital structure in the Inland – that one knows where the new Inland Main Hospital will be located, before deciding where to place the new Inland Air Ambulance Base. All of this is clearly mentioned in the response to the Stortinget, and there is a type of case in which the real content of the case is mentioned, but where there is clearly a disagreement relating to the concept of «own case». After a strict interpretation this should have been presented as a separate case to Stortinget and not, for example. in the context of the budget. I think the Inland population is very aware that there's an investigation that tells us that there's going to be a new base structure in the Inland. They are also very aware that the base station cannot be specifically located until you have completed the process associated with the new hospital in the Inland. This is also a bit of a response to the story of the representative Fylkesnes about the cake parties. Because this shows that the real content is not a disagreement, but the form creates this discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e1421	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e1426	First, just to make it clear: I hear the Council is talking about a lot of different numbers. What's real is that we've dealt with 776 decisions, and of these, 470 have not been followed up – just to make it clear. To that a little bit more general first. The Prime Minister has decided not to be here, so then I assume that Höie might have tried to cover it up, as he said a little about the general, linked to the fact that the Committee has said in the past that we want the message we get to the Control Committee to also include previously unclosed decisions. That's right, the committee has said that. Our way of working is often that we have comments, and when we have common comments, I expect the government to read and follow them up. I perceived that this was said by the Council of State as a reason why it had not now been adopted before. But that is what the committee has asked for before. Will the Council of State ensure that it is followed up below?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e1439	I note the very clear feedback from the committee's chairman in this area. As I said in my post, the government has relied on the practice that has been common before in the years. We have also made a major change in relation to what has happened in the past, and for which I also feel that the Committee has given us credit, namely the much more extensive feedback that is now being given in the budget proposal, where the technical committees are given a completely different opportunity to give feedback on the decisions that have been taken. It is seen in the context of the whole policy area. I am going to bring back the clear message that is in the cancellation, related to the fact that you want to have mentioned the closed decision from previous sessions as well as the last two.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e1444	It was not just a signal from me, but from a unanimous committee, who has written it into the comments, so we assume that it is now being followed up. I'm just going to be allowed to say that I also gave credit for the fact that the department has become better at reporting in the annual budgets. That's what I said in my introduction. But it will not replace the work of the control committee. As the Council of State itself referred to the Frøiland Committee and there are several representatives here who have been involved: it is an important principle that there should be a separate case for the Storting and that it should go to the Control Committee. Until decided otherwise, if any, it is the rules. I really hope that the Council of State will follow it up. It will then be possible to come back to more questions related to the technical committee, if there is reason to do so on the individual issue. I just want to say in the end that I hope we also get the other state councils that have found out that they will be present, on the pulpit, so that there will be an opportunity to ask questions to some of the state councils that have received the most criticism in a joint committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e1454	I don't know if it was a question to councillor Höie, but councillor Höie would like to have a minute to answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e1459	It seemed that the representative did not consider it a question, since he was on his way back again. It was difficult to find the question, but I would nevertheless say that I perceive that we are now in an area in which the Stortinget and Stortingen Presidency have set in motion a work to go through the control work of the Stortingen. It's also important, of course, and it's the Grandfather's initiative, and it's not the government's business. Then I also see that it is a challenge – I hope the chairman of the control committee agrees with what the committee has said – that there are a little different practices in the committees in terms of how to deal with this now in the context of the budgets. I think we all need to work together to come up with a practice here that is more equal and thus easier to deal with both for the government and for the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e1466	Thank you for the answer to a question that was not a question. I have a new one – at least a comment. Firstly, it must be that until there is any change in the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament, the current Rules of Procedure will apply. The government should deal with this, not dreaming that they will have a more appropriate Rules of Procedure. That's the one. The second is – and it is important to stress, not least because we have the Minister of Justice here – the principle that it is not that every time you change the Council of State, previous decisions on corruption are lost. The request decisions which lie there shall be accompanied by the next Council of State. It may seem that some departments expect new government councils to start with blank papers. So they don't. It wasn't a question, but I would like to receive a comment, if necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e1471	First, of course, I fully agree that we should deal with the Rules of Procedure that are now, the rules that are now. Second, it's not a current issue on my part, so I'll leave it to others to comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e1476	When one has gone through the unfortunate cases, all the decisions that were not mentioned in the government's own announcement, which extend further back in time, and which were not included in the time interval that the government submitted to the Storting, and where there were some things that were overlooked by the government, get the impression that the government is not systematically working with decisions made by the Storting, which for the Storting is quite surprising. Does the government have a systematic attitude to decisions taken in Stortinget, and is it that the Prime Minister sees to it that the departments follow up decisions made in Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e1481	Yes, I will absolutely say that, and that was very clear now in the budget proposal, which also refers to very old decisions to the Committee. This is where the most systematic review of older decisions is. And then, in this big message, one has chosen to apply the same practice as before by mentioning only decisions from the last two sessions in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e1486	The reason why I ask is that there are some decisions, including: in the State Council's own field, the Ministry of Health and Welfare, and also from the Council of State's own time, which has not been remunerated. If you look at page 105 of the configuration, you can see that ‘healthcare professionals among residents at reception’, Decision No. 437 not followed up. The ‘base structure of the air ambulance in Norway’, which he mentions in substance, but also ‘prevention for drug addicts’, ‘offer and information on LAR treatment’, ‘cooperation between the health register and other actors’, ‘youth health strategy and advertising’, ‘youth health strategy and response to body pressure’ and ‘treatment provision for children and young people’ are all decisions not followed by the Council of State. Is this because you have chosen to ignore them, or is it a work that is underway, that will come to the Greatness in the near future?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e1493	I perceive that there is just a little bit of the core of the various assessments that exist, for many of the decisions that the representative here listed that did not sit out, it is our opinion that we have described the work. Several of the decisions he made here have been notified that we will come back to in a stepping-up plan for the mental health of children and young people. It is presented to Stortinget in a short time, but we cannot mention it for example. the conclusions of an ongoing case to be submitted to the Stortinget. I also mentioned the issue of the air ambulance structure in my article. I perceive that I have accepted the follow-up of the decisions to Stortinget, even though the cases are still under way, for example. in relation to matters to be submitted to Stortinget at a later date.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e1498	Since we have the Minister of Health – we also have the Minister of Justice and the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment here, and I hope they will also take the floor in this matter, if we do not have the Prime Minister to figure out – I will only have an answer to a very simple question: When will we see that the 88 unfortunate appeal decisions at the Minister of Health will be closed?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e1503	These decisions are very varied, as the representative is aware. Some of them think I'm out, for example. this with the air ambulance structure — there is a reference to what the conclusions are. In other cases, we have notified that the new government platform does so, for example. the decision on a call for proposals on prehospital services will be followed up by the submission of a national health and hospital plan in which prehospital services become one of the main themes. It's also announced from Storting's pulpit several times, and the government parties have agreed that that's the way we follow up. If, at the time that matter is brought before the Storting, the Storing disagrees with that follow-up, one must of course express it, but all of this is explained.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e1508	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e1514	I would also like to start by thanking the Committee for a thorough and good work. It is a serious matter we are discussing when the control committee today expresses strong criticism of two departments in particular. On behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs, I would like to say that we are working very closely with the call for decisions. It's not that strange, because we have a lot of them, we have a lot of appeal decisions that aren't followed up, all the way back to 2013. I agree with the chairman of the committee, Dag Terje Andersen, that the Stortinget and we as representatives might be better off when it comes to the way we formulate proposals and decisions. So today I'm not going to talk about proposals that are about evaluating, looking at, coming back, thinking about, etc. I'm going to stick to the decisions that are crystal clear, where there's no doubt about what the Storting meant, or what the will behind them was. The vast majority of the appeal decisions are also at the back of the Christian People's Party, for today's opposition in the Stortinget could not get through any suggestions in the period we are talking about here. Therefore, it is with wonder that I look around the hall today and see that the Christian People's Party did not participate in this debate. The fact that the Christian People's Party, which is behind so many of the good decisions that Stortinget has made, is not with us today to demand delivery on matters that are important to people, seems to me to be disappointing. I would like to take some examples of appeal decisions in the Ministry of Justice and Defence. In April 2018, the Stortinget considered a proposal from the Labour Party to change the date on which the consideration of victims of violence in resumption cases took place, from the date of the election until the date of the judgment. We didn't get multiple numbers for that, and it's an honest thing. But the Christian People's Party, with today's party leader Kjell Ingolf Ropstad, thought this matter was so important that he made a loose proposal where a government asked to ensure that these matters were taken into the government's follow-up to the NOU on the replacement of victims of violence. It was consensual – and the follow-up has been blotted out. I have put written questions to Minister of Justice Kalldmyr, as he is here today, about how the government is following this decision, because the premise for the decision was that the work should be done quickly – and there is something at home in this debate, I think. There are not only percentages and figures and bureaucracy in the departments, there is also the government party itself that premises the decisions we make. When representatives from the Right, such as Peter Frølich, or Solvency Horne, from the Advance Party, and Kjell Ingolf Rugged from this pulpit, say that this decision must follow up quickly, because it is so important to them that debt, I think it should be committed. The Minister of Justice is currently saying that this example of readmission cases can be seen in 2020, two years after the decision was taken. But one thing is a decision that takes time; it is also an inconsistency if appeal decisions are actually followed up. This is particularly the case with police reform and decisions on local labour offices. I have to say that there is no doubt that it has been a burden for the justice sector to have had together seven Ministers of Justice. My claim is that it has no incentive to implementability or political governance for a sector that is in perhaps the greatest reform in any way. The majority has decided by decisions 1 126 and 1 128 of 21 June 2017 that the Stortinget must monitor its intentions in the near police reform. Right and the Progress Party thought it was a bit comical. I didn't think it was particularly comical. I think it's quite critical that the Storting must ask a government to follow up its own conciliation. We did that in 2017, and it was a unanimous decision. We gave a promise to the inhabitants in connection with the reform of the neighbourhood police, clearly described in the agreement, which is broken. We've promised people a strengthened neighbourhood police force. We have agreed measures for better culture and unaccompanied rental. Where is the Christian People's Party in this debate? In the past, the Christian People's Party had a party leader who was clear that the development of the near-police reform was negative. The former party leader in the Christian People's Party said that we had had a'remote police reform'. I demand that the new party leader in the Christian People's Party be with us in the Storting who actually wants that reform, and who requires them to deliver on what we have agreed. For April 5, 2018, Stortinget agreed that all the remaining Länsmann offices that are now service locations – they are a little dimmed about, etc. - Should be strengthened. It's not a decision that a person needs to interpret or wonder what that means, it's a clear order from Stortinget. In the debate at that time, representatives from the Right and the Progress Party said that it was almost unnecessary to know, because it was going to happen anyway. In the last year we have reports on reports that confirm, and figures and police officers and trust-holders that confirm that it is the opposite that happens out there. One thing is not to follow a suggestion and come back to Stortinget and say that one needs more time, something else is to say one thing and do something completely different. That's to keep people fooled. And that's a little bit of the reason why it's now spreading a powerful vocabulary from many Labour Party spokesmen, but also from other parties, who demand that the Minister of Justice deliver on what the Storting has agreed: a near-police reform. And the Minister of Justice, whom I hope will take the floor in the debate, should note that the Labour Party demands that he follow up on what we were some about. We do not say that one should reverse the police reform, and we do not say that one should stop the work, because we believe that it is a very urgent and necessary reform that one must deliver in line with the Storting decision. I believe that the resistance that is out there now, especially when it comes to local preparedness, security and police, comes from the fact that one has not done what one has said one should do. This matter has been raised in Stortinget with all the ministers of justice we've had, and it's become a part of it. I don't think the first one, who was Anders Anundsen, and who was involved in negotiating the deal, is actually particularly pleased with the status today. Another challenge is that when my opposition colleagues and I have challenged Tor Mikkel Wara, Sylvi Listhaug etc. on their concrete follow-up to the decision to strengthen service locations, I have even felt that one Council of State did not know of the decision. I have challenged at the heart of a settlement and got the answer that a councillor, before the Minister of Justice today, has to come back to it, because he has to check it out. I have a strong call for the new Minister of Justice, who is here in the Chamber today, and that is that when he comes home this afternoon or when it may be, he should write the agreement, read it, chew it, could do it and look at the clear decisions we have on the near-police reform. Because these decisions aren't to consider, look at, think about, etc., they're crystal clear, and I'm starting to get pretty familiar with having to masse on a decision I thought we were some about. In those words, I hope the Minister of Justice will take part in the debate. This is important for people. It was perhaps the representative of Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes who mentioned instead that this is important to others than us. We've promised things to people out there, they've got victory in this hall, and we're obliged to deliver on what the Storing decides. This is Norway's National Assembly, not an electoral office for particularly interested people.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e1537	In this case, we have already considered the importance of follow-up of the Storting decision by the responsible authorities. The population must be able to rely on the decision of the Storting to apply and be put to death. If they cannot, it will in the long run undermine the belief in our political system. When the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee reviewed the Government's communication, it was found that the Ministry of Health and Welfare has 88 open decision-making points. It's more than any of the other departments have. What, then, is not being followed up? Let's take one theme, the market management of our hospitals. There are clear instructions from the majority to change the distribution between basic and effort-driven funding in the somatic sector. The same applies to the decision to follow up the Priority Committee and to evaluate how input-driven funding affects priority decisions in hospitals. There is currently a debate on how much price financing and market mechanisms we are going to have in our hospitals. This debate is marked by dissatisfaction among health professionals, who feel that there is less space for subjects, less space for meeting patients, but more space for target management systems that devour both time and enthusiasm for work. Here we had two more solar decisions that the government would follow up, but in both cases the government has not. Is it so that the change in the distribution between basic and effort-driven funding is now being cleared simply because the Christian People's Party has given up getting it through? The second of these decisions has been added to the growing pile of requests for decisions by the Minister for Health. Let me give you some examples. For more than two years, the majority’s decision to prevent body pressure in advertising has been neglected. For more than two years, it has been hesitated to ensure that there is an intruder across the country that also has the capacity to receive children. We still have no target of how much of the growth in the share of the overall health and care sector to be organised and run as non-profit activities. We are in a fixed crisis, but still the request decision on the escalation of the number of educational positions in general medicine has not been followed up. I could mention many more examples. After all, that's 88 of them. Now I hope that the Christian People's Party in the budget negotiations and the government's internal meetings will ensure that the will of the Storting, which they have shared in expressing, actually affects the government's policy. It is not primarily double work that is problematic in the matter we are debating today, although I understand that there are many decisions to be followed up. The biggest problem in the matter we are debating today is the lack of follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e1552	It is a very important and quite serious matter the Stortinget is discussing today. There are a number of environmental decisions that have been taken in recent years that would have meant a great deal to achieve a strong improvement in the environmental situation, but unfortunately have still not been followed up by the government. It's serious. This applies not only to decisions that the opposition to the Storting has been at the back of, but also to decisions for which a unanimous increase has contributed to the adoption and participation of cakes. Let me mention a couple of important areas. Today, most people recognize that plastic pollution is a significant problem for the world, in fact so big that if we don't do anything about plastic pollution, in a few decades it will be more plastic than fish in the world's oceans, measured in kilos. It's serious. Every year, thousands of Norwegian children and adults go along the beaches and pick garbage, remove plastic from the beaches. This is an important contribution, but we all know that the most important contribution is to end the further exploration. A few years ago, Norway and the rest of the world got a waker when a whale stranded on the coast of the West, on Sotra. The whale had a huge amount of macroplastics – not microplastics – that eventually killed the whale. When I was head of the Nature Conservation Association a few years ago, we got in a cod caught in the Oslo soil by a recreational fisherman. He had been standing on the waterside and thrown off. Then he had seen a cod come swimming inward, quite relaxed. He tried to get it on the hook, but it was not biting. It turned out that it was so relaxed that he could pick it up with his fists. Why could he? Yes, when he made up this cod, it turned out that inside the belly of the cod there was an empty beer box. When the cod manages to get an empty beer box, it also manages to absorb much of the microplastic with which we pollute our oceans every year. This is why, among other things, Last year the Stortinget adopted a ban on the use of rubber cullet – these small black balls that we use on the artificial grass tracks – from 2022 on. It wouldn't be the Stortinge. But what Stortinget unanimously agreed to was that from 1 January 2019 collection equipment was to be installed on all artificial grass courts in Norway, to prevent this rubber cullet from spreading into the water systems. Rubber cullet may sound like a small problem, but it is the second largest source of microplastic pollution from the Norwegian land. It's just the wear of car tires in road traffic that's bigger, so there's a significant problem we're talking about. The joy was great when the Stortinget unanimously decided to introduce effective collection systems for this rubber cullet. Last year, questions were asked to the Minister for Climate and Environment, Ola Elvestuen, of the representative of the big business, Tore Storehaug, about how it went about establishing this collection equipment. The Minister for Climate and Environment could then reassure the Stortinget that it would come into force on 1 January 2019, as the Stortinget had decided. On 1 January 2019, but no regulation had been put in place by the Minister for Climate and Environment to establish such an efficient collection equipment. The Environment Directorate sent its proposal to the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment on how such a regulation could look as early as last summer, so it was plenty of time for a minister who had been busy fighting the growing pollution of plastics to do something about the problem. I even asked a few questions in January about where the regulation was to ensure an effective collection of rubber cullet from artificial lawns. I was then told that the department worked on the matter. I was actually going to ask a new written question about when the government is looking to finish the work on the matter and get this important collection equipment in place, but I see that the climate and environmental minister is in the room today, so he might explain when the government intends to introduce a regulation that will allow us to pick up this microplastic. Let me go to another case, because this is not the only issue that the Biggest has decided on in the environmental field. The size has also decided to ask the government to make a plan to reduce the amount of hazardous waste in the future. This is important, because we are now in a discussion where our one special waste warehouse, which we have had since the early 1990s, is getting full, and where one has to try to find a new place to store special waste from the Norwegian industry. Reducing the amount of special waste to reduce landfill demand is one of the most important things we can do for the environment in the future. Then we see that the government parties believe that this request decision has been followed up because the climate and environment minister has asked the Environment Directorate to come up with such a plan by March this year. I have not yet seen anything about that plan. I have also heard that the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment wants to set up an expert committee to come up with such a plan. But this is a work that's urgent. It's getting full on the island of Lang Island. The capacity to deal with our special waste today is beginning to be detonated. We need a plan to reduce the amount so that we can handle this properly in the future. I hope that the Minister for Climate and Environment will be able to explain his work in presenting a plan for the Storting that reduces the amount of hazardous waste produced in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e1573	In the division of labour and responsibilities between magnificence and government, it is interesting to discuss the decision of the request. The fact that there are many request decisions on the part of the Education and Research Committee is also linked to the fact that there are few issues on the part of the government in our committee. Rebellion, population movements and changes in society must be taken seriously and entered into the work of the committees, and there has also been a driver for more things in our field. I can mention kindergartens, teacher training, continuing education and the structure of higher education as a couple of examples. Control and the Constitutional Committee shall be commended for the enormous efforts they have made to follow up requests decisions, including years back in time. At the same time, I read that a professional assessment of what is signed out or not can be discretionary. The centre batch is not satisfied with the way in which all decisions have been accepted. We wanted more. At the same time, we have faith that the government's alerted messages and ongoing work are fulfilling the Storting's will. To take a small derailment, I would also like to stress that the level of ambition must be in line with the economy of the states, municipalities and other bodies, in order to put our ambitions into practice, whether it be legislative, norm requirements, quality requirements or other. Another point is that the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs has discussed before today, namely interference with the individual's law and the administration's interpretation of the Storting's will. When I read the receipt of the Education and Research Committee's request decision, it is clear to me that there may be a distance between what the Stortinget asked for and what we got. The Audit Committee often points out that it endorses requests decisions while at the same time examining the possibility of following up the decision in other contexts, and this is interesting. State Council Höie pointed out in its statement that the follow-up of matters takes place in the context of relevant case and thematic discussions in the various committees. Of course, I fully agree with that. But I would like to ask the Council of State Höie, in the light of the Committee of Inquiry's assessments, how he sees that we are going to keep up with the informed request decisions and the follow-up of the government to them in time, in addition to the other work, because it is not obvious to me. I will set out one concrete example, namely Decision 810 of 2017-2018 on the youngest children and their transition to school. Here, toys as an instrument have been a topic of discussion by the Education and Research Committee. This point is confirmed, even if curricula are not completed, not presented, and we can't conclude if this desire is met. We don't know the final outcome, but the majority will sign it out. We don't yet know if the order is being taken care of, but we have to do that, of course, when the trade renewal is done. Another example is the theme kindergarten. The Education and Research Committee, both today's members and the members of the previous enlargement period, has raised concerns about quality and supervision. In 2019, i.e. this year, the government made proposals for national supervision, but this still does not correspond to the decision of June 2016 on the supervision of municipalities. The government therefore acknowledges the need without submitting a request decision by the Storting. But luckily, this isn't being accepted, so this is a good opportunity to follow up in the future. Here I believe the government has to fold up the sleeves and do the big job that still remains.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e1588	As the representative Dag Terje Andersen emphasised at the outset today, many request decisions have not been followed up. When the scope is as large as it is, it testifies to a lack of respect for the Storting, and it is critical. The same lack of respect can be seen in the fact that the Prime Minister is not here today. Here's a lot to follow up, the list is long. I would like to draw up some examples from the remit of the Education and Research Committee. One thing is that things take a long time. Bullying law in kindergarten was adopted in Stortinget in 2015. Four years later, there has still been no incident in the matter. Another thing is that important decision-making in the politically highly topical field is not being put into practice. Let me give you a few examples. Provision of continuing training for trainers for apprentices has not been followed up. This is essential for the quality of professional and professional training. Another issue that is very topical in our days is midwives and feeding. Norway needs more children," said Erna Solberg in his new year’s year. Perhaps the Prime Minister should be more concerned about how Norway can have more children. Norway needs more midwives, and there is a need for sufficient places of study, good opportunities for follow-up training and food clinics throughout the country that are well-managed. The government has failed to follow decision on training as a midwife. Then we have examples of the government acting across completely unambiguous requests from Stortinget. Let me do physical activity at school. Here, the government very clearly informed the government that the handling of this matter was not good enough in the state budget. Nevertheless, the government almost repeats the same comments. Parliamentary, it is not within the framework of the Rules of Procedure that a roll-out decision is not followed up. This is an important decision — physical activity among children and young people is declining. It may appear that the government is sabotaging and refuses to comply with Storting's orders. The same applies in particular to the investment plan for higher education construction and infrastructure, as requested by the Stortinget. Good, well-organised and up-to-date infrastructure is a key condition for good research. The maintenance phase and the need for new buildings and upgrades in the university and higher education sectors are high. The Government recently presented a revised long-term plan for research and higher education, and it only has a list of projects already under way, despite the fact that the Stortinget has taken a clear request decision that the plan should have an investment plan and a staging mechanism for major construction and maintenance projects. We get a description, but the Storting has asked for long-term frames. The point of my post is that many request decisions can take time to follow up, but the government will do so. The government cannot, as an implementing authority, take the choice – as it may appear in the last two examples I drew from the field of education – to ignore only clear decisions taken in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e1603	I Prop. 1 S I reported on a whole 86 decisions. As the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs points out, many of these have not been concluded. I'd like to ask for the Storting's understanding that many of the decisions are resource-intensive to respond to. As in many cases, 22 request decisions were taken on average per year from 2008 to 2013. From 2013 to 2018, an average of 296 request decisions were taken each year. In the field of climate and the environment, I would say that as head of the Energy and Environment Committee, I was responsible for many of the decisions that I am now working as State Council to follow up. In order to respond to the request decision, it is a matter of finding good solutions, plans, actions and instruments to be implemented, based on a good knowledge base. In many cases, it is also necessary to involve business and stakeholder organisations. New legislation and instruments must also be seen in the context of international laws, regulations and agreements. I'm recording that the Control and Constitutional Committee believes that six of the decisions we've thought we've been out of office, that's not it. Now I believe that we should continue to comment on the request decisions in the Storting's treatment of Prop. in the first place. 1 S, but at the same time, of course, I shall respect the fact that the Control and Constitutional Committee can make other assessments, and I will follow this up, follow up these six, against the budget proposal presented in October. Some suggestions were commented on, including: by Lars Haltbrecken, on Decision 491, on the collection of rubber cullet from existing and new artificial grass tracks. It is true that the Environment Directorate has put forward a proposal for a regulation on artificial grasses. Now we have gone into this and asked the Directorate for an additional mission to assess the impact of alternative devices on the proposed legislation. I have received this further investigation from the Environment Directorate, and this is now being discussed in the department. When the decision was taken in Stortinget, a proposal that this could be done by 1 January 2019, we also responded. I thought it might be possible, but it has proved to take longer. So there's this issue now -- we have to look at the additional investigation from the Environment Directorate, get the regulations out to be consulted, so that we can adopt them. There were also questions about Decision 497, a plan to limit the amount of hazardous waste. There's no disagreement here. This is an orderly decision similar to a point on the Jeløya platform, which has also been repeated on the Granavolden platform. It is true, as was pointed out, that we have set out a mission to the Environment Directorate, which is to draw up a plan to limit the amount of hazardous waste. The Environment Directorate has been delayed in its work. But I have also set up an expert committee to look at the management of hazardous waste and look at the entire value chain around hazardous waste, and which has a deadline to return advice by 1 November this year. So here, too, this assignment is followed. Although the Environment Directorate is late – I have respect for the fact that things can take longer – the quality of what we get is more important than just when it comes. Then there was also talk about the work to phase out the unnecessary use of disposable plastic articles –Decision 498 of 2017-2018. Initially, we believed that this had been followed up, but the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs disagreed. Here the Directorate-General for the Environment has been given a mandate to draw up proposals for the prohibition of some types of disposable plastic articles, such as disposable sticks, disposable plates, suction tubes and pipes. We insist that this ban be able to come into force before the next summer. It is in line with following up the EU directive in the same area, but then we are at the forefront of implementation. In order to look at further articles, in addition to those I have just mentioned, and some others, a dedicated working group has been set up with business actors, employee organisations and environmental organisations to report back to the Department of Measures for Other Plastic Articles in addition to the orders that have gone to the Environment Directorate. We are going to do this for the first time in the autumn and for the second time in January/February, so that we can press several of these projects. We also work specifically with the business community to review their value chains in order to limit the use of plastics. It is also a Decision 529 of 28 March 2017 on the free delivery of marine waste. In the past, we have launched and extended the Fishing for Litter scheme. Fish farmers who receive plastic waste in connection with their work can deliver this free of charge in port. The Environment Directorate has now assessed different systems for the supply of confiscated marine waste in ports at no additional cost. The Directorate has also been entrusted with — and is more extensive — a proposal for producer responsibility for the fishing and fish farming industry, which must also be seen in the context of the EU single plastic directive, which also deals with fishing equipment. The Ministry must see these different processes and instruments in the context before we decide what to do. Of course, the size will also be properly informed here. Finally, the Chairman of the Committee generally expressed a dissatisfaction with the implementation of the Ministry of Climate and Environment. I can assure you that we are reviewing all these 86 decisions to drive them forward, and many of them I am responsible for myself. It was specifically mentioned predatory game. I can assure you that we will follow up the robberies agreement. We follow up the majority decision that has been made on the wolf. But we are also doing so within the framework of what the Storting has adopted in the context of the Nature Diversity Act and the Berne Convention. The Tana watercourse was also mentioned. While there was enough dispute in the Storting to conclude an agreement with Finland on fishing in the Tana watercourse, the decisions have been complied with, and it is not the decisions of the hearing currently in the Control and Constitutional Committee. These were my comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e1631	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e1636	I thank the Council of State for responding to the two request decisions, which I requested in my post. In the answer to the cleaning regulations for rubber cullet, if we can call it that, the Council of State says that he has asked the Environment Directorate for an additional mission with alternative devices to solve this. Can I then ask the Council of State what alternative arrangements he sees for himself?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e1641	An up-to-date cost assessment of the measures is primarily needed. Then there will also be an assessment of which transitional arrangements to look at, because it is clear that this also entails large costs for those who are track owners. Many of them are voluntary sports teams, municipalities or others.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e1646	Then I will follow up on asking when the Council of State sees that the regulation is being sent to the hearing, and when it can enter into force?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e1651	With respect for the fact that I said some time earlier and can't follow it up, I think I will answer that I am working intensively on this. We are now in the final phase to get it out for consultation, so that we can get it in place without any unnecessary new delays.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e1657	Then I'm going to go over to ask about the second theme that I raised in my post, that of hazardous waste. We were told that the Environment Directorate was delayed with its report, but that the expert committee will deliver its report by 1 November. It is quite right, as the Council of State said, that this is a proposal that the whole Stortinget, and also the government of its two government platforms, have stood behind. The bigger reason might be to worry that it has taken so long. However, my question is whether these advices from the Environment Directorate and the Expert Committee will now come in sufficient time before the government has to make a decision on the re-location of hazardous waste stocks in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e1662	I believe that this will take some time. It is, of course, a big decision, to put forward a plan to limit the amount of hazardous waste. Then we have to look at the whole potential of technology development and how much we have to expect to deposit in the future. I believe that the deadlines we have now to get a basis for making a decision by the government are good. Right now there is no decision of the government. There is a regulatory plan to which Pors Grund has said no, and this has not been the case or that of the government. If you were to go further, it would be a separate decision. But I think we need this investigation from the Environment Directorate, and we also need the expert committee that looks at the whole value chain before and whether we're going to make further decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e1667	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e1672	I can assure the Storting that this Council of State has not intended the previous request decision to be null and void. We take the request decisions seriously. Request and investigation decisions are an option The Stortinget has to oblige the government to follow up individual cases and investigations. In the field of justice and preparedness, there are many request decisions. The number of request decisions has also increased significantly in recent years, and many are resource-intensive to follow up. Security and legal certainty for the citizens and the country are fundamental concerns that we and my department are to maintain. It is also a fundamental prerequisite for a democratic rule of law. I therefore understand that Stortinget is interested in the field of justice and preparedness. I also have great respect for the fact that the Stortinget obliges the government to follow up matters and investigations in the areas of Stortinget. There are several requests decisions which have not been sufficiently validated or are still under follow-up in my department. I see that it is criticised that it is too long to follow up some request decisions. It's a criticism we're dealing with. It is also important, of course, that different request decisions are followed up as quickly as possible and that the Storting get a good response to the follow-up as soon as possible. However, it must also be understood that some request decisions can be quite difficult and complicated to follow up. It is important to meet requirements for, inter alia: investigation and process, and precisely because many of the request decisions concern legal certainty, security and preparedness, it is essential that matters are properly investigated. In order to meet qualitative content and process requirements, some issues will therefore require the Ministry to give priority to dealing with matters over time. The representative, Dag Terje Andersen, challenged me especially on a Dayrevyen essay on sound and video recording in the courtrooms, where there is a request decision to implement it. Unfortunately, the News of the Day does not send everything you say; you take a little clip. But there is no doubt that this is something the government is working on. A pilot project has been launched in Troms, where you have audio and video recordings of the legal proceedings. Now the first cases that have been for the district court with sound and picture recordings come to the law of the law of the team. This is when you have tested how good and effective this is, and how much equipment is needed. There are 400 courts in Norway. Before deciding on a very large investment – around 230-250 million. kr – you should know what the device of the large investment should be. Secondly, during October, the Committee of the Court of Justice comes up with a proposal for structural changes in the Norwegian courts. The government has not taken a position on that proposal, because it has not yet come, but it is clear that it will have a great impact on both the number of courts to be rebuilt and the number of courts to be built in this country. It may have a major impact on how to implement this very request decision. It is important for me to stress that the decision of the Storting should be followed up and that it should be reported back to Stortinget as soon as possible. In the government's proposal for the state budget for 2020, I will come back to the follow-up of new request decisions and the individual request decisions that have not been queried.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e1689	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e1694	It is natural that some decisions may take more time to follow up than others, and the Justice Committee too understands that. But let us take the decisions relating to the police reform, which naturally must be implemented while it is being implemented. In Decision 1126 of June 2017, the Government of Stortinget asks the Government to ensure – do not consider, do not wonder – that ‘a document as described in the Innst will be drawn up. [[2014-2015]] 306 S
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e1701	I think a lot of the reason we're here now is that we disagree on how to implement the police reform. It has been fundamental to the government that there has been quite a stir within the police. Major structural changes have been made within the police, and far greater resources have been allocated to the police than they have ever had. Nevertheless, there may be things that remain – I'll be open about that – and that's exactly why I have notified the Stortinget that there will be a follow-up to the near-police reform in the form of a separate big message, which we hope to get out during this spring session. There we are going to go through the points that the representative, Lene Waogslid, obviously does not think have been queried in a good enough way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e1706	The problem is that when one enters a settlement, one agrees, and that we're now disunity, my claim is that the government has abandoned it and broke with the agreement we entered. I record that I did not get an answer to my question about the decision, but I am going on to my favorite question, which I have asked all the justice ministers we have had, about, and which I asked the current Minister of Justice about last week. I'm trying again: The government has decided that the government will provide a real strengthening of the officers' offices that remain after the implementation of the police reform. This has been said to have been implemented by the various Justice Ministers, but it is proven not to be, according to several reports and clear feedback from trust leaders in the department. I want to challenge the Minister of Justice: how has the decision been specifically followed up and has the Minister of Justice document that can prove that we are wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e1713	Now we're talking about strengthening the lumbarist offices. Last April, in the form of a letter to the Police Directorate, we asked for this decision to be implemented. There are a number of ways to strengthen the janitor's offices. It's not just the number of employees that's interesting. It's just as interesting to see what content you get when you get to a loner's office. Can you be taken seriously in all kinds of issues you want to travel, in the various offices of your local staff? I do not agree that the fact that you have so many job homes and so many job homes again or not in a university office is crucial as to whether the Länsmannskontoret has been strengthened. The most important thing is the contents of the janitor's office when you get there. This is one of the points I'm going to follow up in the notified notification, because I agree with the intention and wording of the request decision. I'm here to strengthen the janitor's offices.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e1720	I can ask you in a much simpler way, so we're a couple of things about what we're talking about. Does the Council of State mean that a lenghtsman's office in – let's say – Drangdal, who survived the threat of closure and was not laid down, but who is now the rib of people, is strong or weak?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e1725	It is difficult for me to assess a specific loner's office. In that case, I have to check what is the Commissioner's assessment of why one has wanted to use the resources that way. Now, police officers are putting up another way to allocate their resources. Much more has been channelled from a intelligence image, using the resources where there is a greater need for them. You may disagree with that, but it is also important that the police are present where crime actually happens.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e1731	I think the answer to my question is quite obvious. The offices and service places that now have fewer people than they had before are weak, contrary to what Stortinget has agreed. There is another question I would like to ask at the end: We also decided that, in connection with NOU 2016: 9, about compensation for victims of violence, we would ensure that cases of resumption were followed up. It was a difficult debate and was about the very much mentioned Kristin-saka many years ago. Representatives Kjell Ingolf Ropstad, Solvency Horne and Peter Frølich from the Christian People's Party, the Advance Party and the Right said here in the staging room that it was crucial that it was followed up quickly. The answer from the Minister of Justice to me on a written question last week was that it would come in 2020. Does the Minister of Justice think that two years is to be counted as fast, and does the Minister of Justice take the strong signals from his own party traps seriously?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e1738	I can see that two years may seem like a very long time. At the same time, this is a quite comprehensive NOU, and there are several things to consider. This is a typical NOU, which goes into what is perhaps the most difficult thing in the entire field of justice, namely the question of legal certainty and how to deal with it. There are quite difficult legal assessments to be carried out, so I probably have no other promise than that we're going to keep the promise that this will come next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e1743	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e1748	At the end of the debate, first of all, I would like to thank you for what I think has been a good debate, with both the general principles of follow-up by the government to the decisions of the Storting and some examples of the many proposals that lie here. So during this debate we have not spoken about the matter, and then I think about both the matter from the government and the handling of it, justice, because we have hardly talked about the more than 400 request decisions that the government itself says it has not followed up. It is natural that there will be discussion about them there is discussion about, but that is how a very large part of the matter has got little room in this debate, and so far also in the setting. So I would say there's one thing that concerns me in this debate, and it's independent of who's in government at all times, and that's the topic of detail management. We've spent a lot of our time today talking about constitutional proposals, and it's an important element in the distribution of power, the role of the Storting, and the role of the government. I just want to stress that I'm taking the greatest seriousness of the division of labour that's between government and magnification, not least the relation to the opposition, but now the opposition doesn't get a majority without anyone else, to say it like that. State Council Kallmyr was in the field of object protection, and it's probably a typical example of a case being raised because of poor follow-up. We have had our own things about this in Stortinget, which has affected the Ministry of Justice and Defence, and it is natural when you see that things are not followed up well by the government, that there are then more detailed follow-up questions. I think that's a responsibility we have to take together, and that's a responsibility I think we have together, both the Storting, not least the opposition, and the government that sits there at all times. Because it's not good for democracy if you finally don't know who's decided what, and what's been running. This is precisely why it is so important that when the Stortinget takes decisions, they are followed up. And I want to underline what I said initially about it, that there are only two ways to follow up: that's to do it or get the decision lifted. Both parts are democratic, but there's no way out of it. Then I can reassure the Council of State of Kallmyr that I have also been interviewed by Dagsrevyen, and I do not think that it is the most intelligent part of the statement that comes to mind, although sometimes it might be an advantage for me to get cut a little. But it is now a reality that what was said was said, and that was the background to my comment: it is not the case that a roll-up decision is to be assessed for other good purposes, it is the case that a roll-up decision is to be implemented or that a new decision is to be taken. There are several people who have discovered that there are discussions about the form of the processing of this report, or this way of doing it in the future. What I can say for our part is that we will in any case stick to the principle that the Storting should have a comprehensive and proper overview of how the government follows up the request decisions. And then there's good reason to believe that when the former depositor Elvessuen has now become the Council of State, it becomes less a request decision than when he was a magnificent representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e1763	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e1779	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e1791	We are then ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e1800	Three proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Dag Terje Andersen on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No 2, from Nils T. Bjørke on behalf of the Centre Party proposal No 3, from Torgeira Knag County on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 12:26 [[that the marine resources belong to the community and benefit the coastal communities]] The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e1831	President! I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e1836	– As it seems that there have been errors for several people here, we take the vote again, so we get everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e1848	The proposal did not reach a two-thirds majority and was therefore not accepted. There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 12:41 [[the marine resources]] Red has announced subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e1867	The proposal did not reach a two-thirds majority and was therefore not accepted. There is a vote on proposal No. One, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 12:23 [[if the marine resources belong to the community]] The Greens have announced subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e1886	The proposal did not reach a two-thirds majority and was therefore not accepted. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e1901	The Labour Party and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e1920	The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e1939	The Central Party and Red have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e1955	During the debate, Mr Andersen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 12:3 [[establishment of the right to apply for asylum]] The Left, the Greens and the Reds have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e1972	The proposal did not reach a two-thirds majority and was therefore not accepted. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e1984	The Socialist Left Party, the Left, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e2007	The Christian People’s Party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e2023	During the debate, Dag Terje Andersen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 12:29 [[right to establish a family, etc.]] The Left, the Greens and the Reds have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e2040	The proposal did not reach a two-thirds majority and was therefore not accepted. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e2052	The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e2068	During the debate, Mr Andersen presented a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 12:8 [[restrictions to the fundamental rights]] The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e2085	The proposal did not reach a two-thirds majority and was therefore not accepted. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e2097	The Labour Party and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e2113	During the debate, Mrs Leirstein put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right and the Progressive Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 12:17 [[prohibition of disproportionate interference in the sphere of freedom of citizens]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e2128	The proposal did not reach a two-thirds majority and was therefore not accepted. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e2140	The Right Party and the Advance Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-03.ana.ud559e2275	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and then the meeting is cancelled.
