ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e104	The representatives of Mona Fagerås and Linda C. Hofstad Helleland, who have been licensed, has once again taken up their seats. The following called alternates are now taking their seat: For the West-Agder countries: Odd Omland For Akershus County: Solveig Schytz and Mani Hussaini For the state of Hordaland: Sigurd Hille For the Mora and Romesdal counties: Anne Kristin Bryne For the Nordic counties: Elizabeth Åsjord Sire and Kari Anne Bøkestad Andreassen There is an application from the Central Party Deposit Group for the extension of the Siv Mossleth representative permit granted on 21 and 22 May to 23 May. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. Varare representative Kari Anne Bøkestad Andreassen continues to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e154	From 22 May to 26 May to take part in the Arctic Parliamentary Committee in Ottawa, the Workers' Party's Group has submitted an application for leave to the representative Eirik Sivertsen. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Kjell Idar Juvik, is invited to meet on 22 and 23 May.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e174	The representative, Kari Elisabeth Kaski, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e179	On behalf of the representatives of Freddy André Øvstegård, Karin Andersen and the undersigned, I will present a proposal for a representative on a fair housing market.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e184	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e202	At the request of the Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that up to six lines of reply are given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e211	The background to the proposals put forward in the proposal for a representative is important. We've had good discussions in the committee on this, and it's a cross-political consensus that it's important to have a good overview of the student's living and learning environment. A commitment to knowledge is a prerequisite for value creation and well-being, and for the right to education to be real, good student funding and a good welfare offer are important for all students. All shall be able to take tertiary education, irrespective of background, economy and place of residence. In order to design a policy that provides good living conditions for the students, we need to have a good factual basis. The Committee points out that, on behalf of the Ministry of Knowledge, the SSB has conducted three student life-cycle studies since 1998. The Year Survey is the most comprehensive survey of students' living conditions. There are also many other studies that are useful in this area. In particular, the student health and well-being study, last published in September 2018, is important. It showed us, for example: there is reason to monitor the development of the mental health of students. It showed that even though 79 pst. According to students, they have good or very good health, almost three out of ten students report that they are often or very often lonely. And the proportion of students reporting mental distress has increased significantly since 2010. Cooperation in Europe is also important, where we received an international report in 2018 on the living conditions of students in Europe. A new report was expected in 2021. A new official living conditions survey was assessed in 2016/2017, at an estimated cost of 15 million. kr. Today, there is reason to believe that the price will be even higher, and we must constantly ask ourselves whether such a large and costly study will yield a cost-related benefit. It is important to note that: The government has stepped up grants for work on the mental health of students to 18.4 million. kr per year interconnections are given approx. Ninety million. kr for student welfare large grants are granted for the construction of student housing; 11 months of study support phased in proposals for changes to the student housing system are being consulted; All of this is important raising and possible changes that are likely to significantly affect the student’s living conditions over time. Furthermore, the government has made proposals to legislate that all students should have access to student representatives, which will be an important channel for knowledge of the learning environment. I think this is a good initiative by the proposers, but I support the majority in the Committee, which believes that it is now better to spend resources on practical and concrete welfare opportunities for the students than to spend money on a new living conditions survey and monitoring the learning environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e250	Good and accurate policies must be based on knowledge. The Workers' Party is committed to following the development of the students' living conditions and doing our best to ensure that they have good framework conditions while they are studying. Since 2010, the SSB Lifecycle Survey has been a valuable knowledge base for higher education management. During the Stoltenberg government, the living conditions survey was conducted on a regular basis. I say valuable because the SSB's study is the most complete overview of Norwegian students' living conditions. The purpose of the study has been to identify the student’s study and housing conditions, social networks, health and economics and the conditions of work and leisure. It has also wanted to describe developments over time and compare the results with previous living conditions surveys among students. We in the Workers' Party believe it is important that students' living conditions are examined at regular intervals, so that they have up-to-date information, can detect changes over time and adjust the policy accordingly. Therefore, it is unfortunate that the government has failed to carry out a new living conditions survey. The study was last carried out by the SSB in 2010. In nine years, much may have happened. Neither the student's health and well-being study, the study barometer nor the Eurostudent can fully replace a comprehensive and broad living conditions survey. We in the Workers' Party are surprised that the right-wing government does not show the willingness to prioritize an up-to-date and necessary knowledge base on the important social group that students make up. As the representative, Steffensen, the Solberg government, prior to the presentation of the State budget in 2016, indicated that they were aiming to carry out a new study to obtain up-to-date information on the student's living conditions. But the government unfortunately chose not to. We in the Workers' Party are also concerned with the quality of study and students' right to a good learning environment. The learning environment law is little concrete on several points, which can contribute to differences in the organisation of apprenticeships. Knowledge of the learning environment of students at universities, colleges and colleges should be strengthened and seen in the context of the review of the Law on Higher Education. After several years with increasing number of applicants for higher education, we believe that there is a need for more knowledge of the student's living conditions and learning environment, not less. Therefore, in the Workers' Party, we have proposed that a new living conditions study be launched, and that a survey of the learning environment of students should be included in this study, for as much overall knowledge as possible of the student's conditions. It should be possible for the government to afford it, and this should be done as soon as possible. The students have waited long enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e265	Would the representative like to make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e270	That's what the representative wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e275	The representative Nina Sandberg has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e280	The students' living conditions survey looks at the living conditions of the students within a given period of time, and is the most complete overview of the study and housing conditions of Norwegian students, social networks, health and economics and working and leisure conditions, to mention something. This is how the study is a valuable tool for higher education management. The importance of having a good time as a student and in the course of the studies is fundamental to success in studies. In the students' health and well-being studies, we have seen figures that make us worried about how things stand. We're afraid there's darkness for how many students are struggling. The centre party takes a serious view of the situation. The government should do that too. The Norwegian student organisation agrees that a new study is needed. On behalf of the Ministry of Knowledge, the SSB has conducted three life-cycle studies among students since 1998. The Yearly Life Survey, together with the Study Survey, Eurostudent and the student association's own study of students' health and well-being, provides us with an increased knowledge base and provides valuable information. It is essential to know what we are talking about when we are discussing developing policies and instruments that are about improving students' everyday lives. It is critical that today’s government will not give priority to an up-to-date necessary knowledge base on the important student group. As more people take higher education and society changes faster and faster, we need to have our eyes fixed on the way to brief ourselves on where we're going. It makes no sense for the Center Party that the government, which otherwise talks about the importance of knowledge, will not prioritize the acquisition of knowledge about the student's living conditions. None of the Right-Handed Governments have carried out a new living conditions survey in the last nine years. At the same time, the government has changed schemes under the Loan Fund and changed the study structure, duration of education, admission requirements and much more. None of the studies that students respond to can replace a comprehensive and broad living conditions survey. It is interesting when the Council of State Nybø writes in a letter to the Committee that this should be dealt with in ordinary budgetary processes, when the government has previously actively chosen not to carry out a new living conditions study despite the fact that it was planned in the ordinary budgetary process in 2016. Now we have a review of the University and Higher Education Act and several major processes in the future. How this affects students' everyday lives, we should know more about it. We should like to see the government more concerned about the extent to which the measures the Stortinge grant money to, have wanted the effect, because in the students' everyday lives we have no time to lose.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e293	How is it to be a student in Norway? Most people would say that it's good to be a student, compared to what the situation is in other parts of the world. I had recently visited some Colombian students. They told me about high school money, centralized studies, and that they had to raise private loans in order to implement if you didn't have rich parents. It's almost impossible to become a student if one does not belong to the upper class in Colombia. In Norway, we have equal rights to education, we have student loan financing, and we even build student housing funded by the state – not at all enough – I have to comment then, as a small slip to the government, which has now given up its own goals in this area. But what about higher education in Norway? What's your student life like? Is the student loan financing good enough? How are living conditions and learning environments? And what about the quality and content of the study programmes? Why is it that more students work part-time in Norway than in the rest of Europe? And why do Norwegian students spend more time doing the studies than students in other countries? I'd like to know why it's like this. I think it could be useful knowledge for everyone sitting in the hall. A life-cycle survey that we last conducted in 2010 would answer some of my questions. A life-cycle survey would provide us with the basis for developing policies and putting in place tools that could give students in Norway a better daily life. Good data could give us opportunities for policy development. A living conditions survey could give us the complete overview of the living conditions of Norwegian students. However, such a study will not involve government parties, although it highlights the importance of students’ living conditions being examined at regular intervals, so that information is up-to-date and can reveal changes over time. Much may have changed over the nine years since the last time students were surveyed. Neither the student's health and well-being study, the study barometer nor the Eurostudent can fully replace a comprehensive and broad living conditions survey. But the government says no. Are they really so self-satisfied with the situation of today's students?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e308	The Christian People's Party wants all students to have good living conditions. We want safe and good learning venues where the whole human being is cared for. We in the Christian People's Party share the opinion of the proposers that it is important to ensure good and relevant knowledge of the student's living conditions, both as a basis for policy decisions and also for development and growth in student welfare. As part of development and growth, it has, among other things, have been important for the Christian People's Party to support the proposal to legislate student representatives at the universities. This we believe will be a great boost to student welfare while also becoming a part of the basis for decisions on new policies after they are set up. When it comes to conducting a new student life-cycle study and a new survey of the learning environment of students, we already have several sources of knowledge about living conditions. We have a large health and well-being study from September 2018, we have student relations, which are the main actors in student welfare, and there are good cooperation procedures between the Swedish Council of Education and the Ministry. We also have the Student Survey and SSB reports Eurostudent and many more. In addition to these, we also see that ensuring good and relevant knowledge of the living conditions of students already appears to have been ensured through the evaluation of the learning environment selections. This evaluation is an important part of the legislative committee to review the mandate of the Law on Higher Education. At the same time, the legislative committee satisfies the Committee's consideration of the time aspect in which they are scheduled to deliver their investigation already on 1 February 2020. The Committee stresses the importance of student welfare and points out that we have already implemented and launched good actions that can meet the requirements of relevant knowledge such as the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV's demand. What we don't agree with is that there is a need to do several studies of the same kind at the same time. Students' living conditions and learning environments are important, and the Committee strongly supports this. At the same time, I am absolutely sure that this government will evaluate the answers from the law commission and assess whether these meet our needs for relevant knowledge of the student life when their investigation is available – this is the basis for decisions on politics and also on development and growth in student welfare. We therefore vote in favour of the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e325	It is an important topic that is being debated in this Chamber today. We need to keep track of how students experience living conditions and learning environments, which is addressed in each of their minority suggestions in the position. The government has prioritised both, and we gather experiences from several processes that improve both the living conditions and the learning environment for the students. We're taking knowledge of this from a lot of sources. Several have been mentioned: the students' health and well-being study, SHoT, has given us important insights into several courses, now last autumn. In addition, we receive reports and information from the liaisons, student organisations, Eurostudents, the Study Barometer and the Statistical Central Bureau. A living conditions survey could provide further insight, but it also costs money. The cost is estimated at approx. Between 15 and 20 million. kr, based on the plans set out in 2015, when a new study was last assessed. The conclusion at the time was that it was not likely that such a large and costly study would provide a cost-related benefit of knowledge. A great boost is now being taken for the student's living conditions. Eleven months of funding has been phased in, there has been a high investment in student housing for a long time, the vocational schools have been given the right to interact, and the government has stepped up the grant to students' mental health, just to mention something. In my opinion, it would be natural to, for example: the increase in study funding is completed before a new life-cycle study may be launched. It is also proposed to provide a survey of the student learning environment at universities, colleges and colleges and to see it in connection with the work of new university and higher education law. All UH institutions are required to have a learning environment selection, and their governance has overall responsibility for the learning environment, including: student relations and the Labour Inspectorate. I agree that the learning environment should be seen in the context of the revision of the Law on Higher Education. The educational environment is therefore part of the mandate of the legislative committee preparing the review, which is to present a NOU in February 2020. I have also noticed that the sample has clearly included the learning environment issue in its knowledge acquisition.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e339	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e344	Statistical central agency, which regularly conducted student-level surveys under the red-green government, has long traditions of monitoring and elucidating the living conditions of the population. Before the SSB carried out the very first general living conditions survey in 1973, individual studies on people’s consumption and income had been carried out, but these only described certain aspects of the reality that determine the individual’s life prospects. Therefore, the government of that time chose to entrust a research group with the task of carrying out the first comprehensive life-cycle survey. Now we see that today's government is paying close attention to studies that describe fragments of the reality that students live under. What is the reason why today's government does not want a complete and broad knowledge of the student's living conditions?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e351	I disagree with the premise on the question from the representative, because I think we get knowledge about the student's situation from different teams that gives us a good picture. I believe, however, that a new living conditions survey would give us something more and had a value. I think there are two reasons we have to take into account if we're going to do such an investigation. Firstly, it is a budgetary question. It costs between 15 million. NOK 20 million. kr and it should be dealt with in the context of a State budget. Secondly, over several years we have stepped up the study support, and we are about to receive eleven months of study support. I think it would be useful and give a better picture if we took that step-up before we might consider such an overall study, because it is such an important part and has such a great importance for the students' everyday lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e356	International interest in measuring living conditions is increasing in a broad sense, including, for example: the quality of life and the development of society, with a view to facilitating better decisions. It does not seem that this interest is shared by the incumbent government. I have noted that the Progress Party says no to our proposals, but also that they hope that the government “can find room for a new investigation in the next few years”. This government has found room to spend around 7 billion. extra oil crowns, so I don't get the real reason that the right-wing government never started the living conditions survey they offered. In addition, it was originally put out of money in previous budgets, but these were removed again. Together with the bourgeois scholarship charter, it seems that this government does not want to spend money on the students.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e363	There was no question at the end of that post, but let me take the opportunity to conclude that this government has really invested in the students. Never before have we had such an offensive effort on, for example. student housing. We've settled on an even high level. In 2019 we published 3 400 student homes. It was so much that the student relations had not completed projects, and we were only awarded 1448, but the government's will has really been there. We have started a phase-in of eleven months of study support, and as a result, students have received NOK 8 100 more from 2017 to 2019. And together with the general bet, it's increased the payments by 11 600 kroner. That this government bets on the students, there can be no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e368	In its contribution, the Council of State pointed to a review of the study funding. She also uses the replicating tool now to boast a lot of increased study funding. But we got a change in the budget for 2019 that we didn't necessarily expect to get to such an extent and at such a speed. So I'm simply wondering what kind of knowledge of the student's living conditions the government is building on in terms of tightening up the rules for converting loans into scholarships, which makes the government think that tougher conditions will lead to students conducting the studies faster – or is this just an assumption?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e373	What is important to emphasise in the context of the conversion scheme is that it will have no effect on the payments made by students while they are students. When they're students, they'll get paid the same thing. In fact, they will be paid more as a result of the enormous investment that this government has begun and implemented. It's only after you finish your studies, you might want to have a higher loan that will have to be repaid, but not when you're in the study situation. I think that is a very important clarification. We cannot guarantee that it has the desired effect, but our sincere desire is that more people complete the education they start. It is a challenge for society and individuals that too many start a study that they do not complete. That's the different reasons, but we have a desire for more people to get through.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e380	There's no doubt that the knowledge base here might be somewhat thin. The government put in the budget to save it to 260 million. kr. We see in the revised budget that it was not the amount you expected. There is no doubt that students also felt that this would affect their everyday study life and their motivation in everyday life — perhaps even the chance to apply for higher education without necessarily knowing what to become when you grow up. If we have to wait a while before the government can afford a new living conditions survey, and if this is to happen through a new budgetary process – what can the Stortinget expect in a future government budget and of further follow-up that will be different from what the Stortinge got in 2016?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e387	It is also allowed to try out for big business representatives. Answers to what the government will put forward for the autumn of the draft state budget for 2020, I cannot, of course, stand here on the pulpit and give now. The representative Knutsdatter Strand – like everyone else out there – must wait until the autumn to see. But what the representative Knutsdatter Strand can spend the time until then on is to look at what this government, the Solberg government, has actually done for the students while it has run, partly together with the Christian People's Party and the Left on the outside, but now with those parties in government, and there has been a massive investment on the students. We've really raised what's important for those who are students here and now. It is about having a good and reasonable housing situation that is perceived as being safe. We've invested heavily in student housing. We have started the process of stepping up 11 months of study support. They'll have one week now in June. This government has really delivered. But we're not going to say that we're done, because students and higher education are important to this government, and it's still going to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e394	The Minister repeats in his articles the great promises this government has made for the students. Then the Ministry of Knowledge's own calculations show that the government has financed eleven months of student support by changing and removing other study schemes for the students. So they're giving with one hand, but they're really taking the other one back. In this context, it is therefore appropriate to ask: is there any knowledge of such a life-cycle study that Nybø does not see the need for? Or is there a recognition of the lack of ability and will for political follow-up that it is likely to demand?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e401	I believe that such a study as this is about could provide useful information and thus also provide a good basis for further work on the health, well-being and working environment of students. But I believe, as I also said in my speech, that, firstly, this is a budgetary issue – it is not something we should adopt through a Document 8 proposal, it is something that belongs to a budget debate. Secondly, I think we should complete the phase-in of eleven-month student support before we might consider the possibility of starting such a study, simply because the change in student support is so important that I believe it would be an advantage to complete it first. So it's not like we're not working on this right now. Several have also been involved in the selection that is now working on the revision of the Law on Higher Education, which is also a topic, and they will present their NOU in February next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e409	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e416	The working party had wanted a new student living union survey. It would give us a complete and comprehensive overview of the student situation. We could also have seen change over time in a better way with today's surveys. I think it's a pity that the government parties have such a lack of knowledge, because the better knowledge we have about the students' situation, the better politics we can make. Yesterday, the representative of the Party for Advancement, Roy Steffensen, who is also the head of the Education Committee, said to NTB that the parties to the Government will vote against the proposal, but he also said that he hoped that there would be room for a new examination in the budgets over the next few years. The rationale for NTB was largely economic. Then I think it's in place to remind the government parties that you had money left over. Not only was the use of oil money increased in the revised national budget this year by 7 billion. kr and found crumbs for Norwegian students and higher education, but it is like saving 300 million. kr to cut in the construction of student housing, from 3,400 to 1,448 – over half a half. I hear the higher education minister and the government parties say that there were not enough applications. Well, there's two things to say to that. Firstly, you could have done as NSO wants and had a new call round. One could have spent money on upgrading, maintenance, or said something about how to increase the construction of student housing in Norway. The other problem is bad political governance. Does the government really have such a poor understanding of the capacity and plans of student relations that more than half of the funds allocated to the State budget are bombed? It was going to be 3,400 student homes. It's going to be less than 1,500. There are fewer built student homes in 2019 than in 2018 and 2017, despite a record allocation. The question you have to ask is, have you really kept the students out of control? Before Christmas, there was great protest against the government's change in the conversion system, i.e., the scholarship cut. In a very short time, a little bit out of the blue, the government found money to build more student homes and increased it from 2,200 to 3,400. What it now looks like, is that the state budget has been used to set off imagination money to meet protests against the scholarship cut, and five months later we have the fasitium: the scholarship cut was protected. Student residences disappeared. A little but important patch on the wound could have been saying yes to a new living conditions study, but what we see here is that the government has lowered the students. I think it is important at the end of the day to note that it is a little strange that the largest government party has chosen not to engage in this important debate for the students.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e425	I'm taking the floor to ask a couple of questions about what's the representative proposal here today, and that's what this is about, the factual basis of the student's living conditions. I have to say that I am reacting a little to this downsizing, as I see it, of the SHoT study, which has been carried out since 2010, at four years intervals, where the last one was in 2018. I would like to remind the assembly that in the last survey the data base was increased by four times. So if you read the SHOT study from 2018 from perm to perm, you have a little bit of a job. We know the diagnosis; we now need to spend the money on medicine. We know that loneliness exists in this group, we know that the reported mental health problems have gone from the sixth in 2010, to the fifth in 2014, to the fourth in 2018. It's quite serious. Then I would like to remind you that in the Health and Care Committee these days we are dealing with the public health report, where student health is an essential part. That's the first time that's happened, and we're going to have a good debate about those conditions even when dealing with this in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e434	I understand that it is hard for the Workers' Party to see that it is this government that has really lifted the student's living conditions, because when I hear the representative Henriksen, he really tries to talk it out. There is no doubt that historical efforts have been made in recent years. I would like to remind you that we have helped both financially and in terms of content to strengthen the student's position and conditions as full-time students – from the fact that we reversed the red-green removal of the student's representation in the co-operation boards, to the fact that we started quickly adjusting the student support beyond the usual price increase. We agreed, on the civil side, to step up, against eleven months of student support. We've granted a record lot of student housing. We've had a crazy growth in the number of dwellings being built. We have increased the rate so that it is possible to realize several construction projects in pressed residential areas, just where there is a need for student housing – and perhaps the most important point, which has not been mentioned here, and which the Workers' Party of course ignores: We have also introduced a price adjustment of the rate used when you are granted money to realise student housing projects. I remember very well the armod that was out there in the relationships when something was scarcely granted to student homes from the red-green government, and you sat there with the lua in your hand and waited for some poor appropriations, which meant that you had to save yourself to find something to do to finance a project that had to be realized. We've changed that strategy by fully financing projects, which means you get the shovel in the ground right away. And when we also introduce this price adjustment, of course, it means that those who are now sitting and working on these projects are waiting to apply until they are actually fully regulated and ready to be built. Because then you will get a rate that is higher than if you were to follow a red-green strategy, that is, to apply in the hope of getting something, and then once in the future to be able to build something. With this government, we've invested, we've created predictability. This has made the sector adapt, of course, and can now realise the projects when there is a need to do so. I think we might see a result of that record bet now, but we still received scarcely 1,500 applications with the wish to build student housing. In conclusion, I just want to mention that when we now talk about a living condition study, nobody here has said that we are against it. But just in light of the fact that you're doing all these big bets now, there's a point that you're actually seeing the effect of these. So when you carry out a survey -- in the light of just history, that you've made so unique efforts that you've done in the last few years -- it's useful that such a study also gives us the knowledge, the know-how, that we're after, that goes beyond the things that we can already support today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e447	We want a regular and systematic life-cycle survey and an updated life-cycle survey, for this will provide a much better basis for finding the effective and good measures that provide study quality, study progress and a good study everyday life. The government is tightening up, among other things enter the facility to convert loans into grants without any support from the students, and without evidence that this has any effect. Then the least we can ask is that this measure be assessed afterwards, when the government in any case chooses to ‘break’ it through. It is quite interesting to see the debate here today, that the representatives of the government parties disagree with each other on the need for a new living conditions survey or one. The representative of the Left points out that this is not necessary, while the representative of the Progress Party points out that this is necessary. It would have been positive for the students and for the student welfare if at least a year could be put forward in time and had an ambition to have a new living conditions study. Here are several measures we should have more knowledge of how to turn out. Otherwise, I'll bring you a little bit of a review about the last health committee that took action for students' health. It was not very popular among the members of the government parties in the Education Committee. I'm curious if it'll be in this game. It was then physical activity in school, which we now fortunately get a majority for also across opposition and position. Action by the government boasts, is often the result of orders from the Storting and there is a broad political consensus that there is a need for it. So now we have to listen to the Norwegian student organisation and the students abroad, at ANSA, who want to study their living conditions. That's what the Center Party believes there's a basis for giving them.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e460	I only have a short answer to the representative Grimstad from the Left, who is obviously a bit wild when he says that the opposition is talking down the SHOT study. On the contrary, the Working Party considers the SHOT study to be a bottom-solid, but it is not an adequate substitute for a comprehensive and broad living conditions survey. That's what you could say. Not only do we think it is bottom-solid, but we follow the SHOT survey closely year after year. And we follow it up with practical politics. When we saw alarming trends in the mental health of students, we doubled our own efforts to prevent and treat them. We had $15 million. kr more than the government. We also had a comprehensive workshop with relevant organisations to get targeted policies in the field. The working party also has, in brackets, 300 million. kr more for mental health protection than that of this government. But briefly summarised: we're going along, we're going up, and that's exactly what's the basis for us to promote this proposal today to follow the student life to get a more accurate policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e467	We mean, among other things: The representative Sandberg has shown that a life-cycle study provides a better and more complete overview of the student's life situation, among others. Because you can follow the same respondents, the same groups, with the same method over a longer period of time and can make meta-studies of it. You can't do that by putting together today's studies. Then I just have to comment on the situation the government has actually put the Norwegian student organisations and the NSO in when they grant a so-called record amount to student homes for 2019, and then the fasitium becomes a completely different one. There were some things the representative Gudmundsen leaped smoothly into his post. One is when he says that there was hardly any money allocated to student housing under the red-green government, so it was tripled from the previous right-hand government in 2005 to 2013. But I would like to pay particular tribute to the Left and Christian People's Party, which has pressed for an increase in housing to over 2,000. In 2013, the Workers' Party was the first party to say that it wanted 3,000 student housing per year. But what's interesting, as the representative Gudmundsen said and as the higher education minister has been involved in interviews, is that they're actually saying that it's not so strange that the search is low in 2019, because you're waiting for the grant to be adjusted. That's what the representative Gudmundsen showed. He really believes that the construction will then go up in 2020. I think that is a matter of course. That's what the government should take care of. That student relations are waiting to apply in 2019 because they know that the grant will be adjusted – so I have to ask the government parties the question: Did the government parties not know what the so-called record increase for student homes was made in December 2018? Or was it just that you put in fantasy money in the state budget to communicate better with Norwegian students, in order to get out of a difficult situation with a scholarship that there were great demonstrations and protests against? The alternative to not knowing it when you put that money into the state budget in December 2018 is that you have hopeless little control, management and overview of the student housing building in Norway. In 2019, fewer student dwellings are built than in 2018 and 2017. Now we've heard the government parties explain why it's like that. So there's no new information for those government parties. I believe that the posts we have heard today confirm that they kept the students fooled when they made a record increase in the state budget for 2019. Now it turns out that the record increase never came. It has been cut, while the scholarship cut has remained. I assume that this will be corrected up to next year with a new record allocation, a record increase that is actually being followed up and built.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e482	It is not easy to grasp what is really the criticism of the representative Henriksen. Does he think it is wrong for the government to make these grants price adjusted, so that when the projects are ready to be realised and you apply, you get higher rates? So he's criticizing higher rates? There is no doubt that there have been practices in student relations to have many projects on the table. Maybe not everything has been clear, but you've been searching anyway. And why have you done it like that? Well, because you wanted to make sure you got a grant. Now we have significantly improved that arrangement, and then criticism is given by the representative of Henriksen that we have just strengthened this system. That's pretty weird. This shows that the alternative to the Workers' Party is quite absent. I think it's worth remembering the story: it's now that when there were a lot of appropriations – and by «mye» I mean a third of what we were doing – it was an election year when the red-green ones crashed. That was when there were some extra student housing on the table. This government and this majority have actually had a predictability in their student housing policy by having had a constant high level, which has made it possible for relations to plan. That's what I think is a little bit of the core of the point here: we're involved in creating the predictability needed in the sector. We have helped to strengthen the economic conditions. We have set up systems to enable projects to be realized at the time they are to be realized, with the economy that is then required in a market when, after all, you have to have private to build and this is not a state arrangement. Then it's just as a conclusion to note that the representative Strand mixes the cards a little when you pull in the change we made in the grant scheme, up against the living conditions survey. I want to remind you that we haven't made any changes that affect the students. But when you're done studying and going to work and have a salary, then first you have to pay back on the student loan, and that's when the effect of the change that we made will get some insights. That is why I also believe that it is a record bomb to draw that point. And that's why my point is quite clear and firm, that it would be useful for us to carry out such a great study when we have in place all the effects of the great historical efforts that we've made for the students. Our government has significantly raised the living conditions for students. We're going to keep going with these bets. I therefore think it would be wise to await it. That doesn't mean you're against a living conditions survey.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e495	There is clearly a disparity between the representative Strand’s will to persecution – or ability, for that matter – and my performance. I really haven't said that there's no need for a living condition study. What I'm saying is that in 2018 we got a very comprehensive SHOT study – we know the results from it. I have to say that in the case of students and mental health, the department really reacted promptly to, for example. students abroad, as the representative also mentioned, and immediately granted NOK 760000 for the purpose of ANSA in this context. Afterwards, I was with the State Council and looked at the new health home at the University of Oslo. There it works that they have digital follow-up of students who visit abroad at regular intervals. That's how the money should be used. 760,000 kroner may not be that much, but we could finance it ten times, roughly, with the cost of a new living conditions survey — if not more. That's how we should spend the money, not on a new data base. We can get back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e502	This was a debate that began as a debate on whether to conduct a new living conditions survey and monitor the learning environment of the students. It has gradually evolved into a debate as much about student housing as about the year’s grant to student housing. I want to link a little comment to both. We have a lot of knowledge about how the students are doing. Luckily, most of the students are enjoying themselves well – they are enjoying their study program, they are enjoying themselves in their study city. But there are some students — and unfortunately more and more students — who experience loneliness, who experience that they have mental problems. There was just a look in the paper that many people now have exam fears, so that there are students out there who need help, there is no doubt about it. We know that there are students out there who need help – there is no doubt about that either. That's why we're also busy doing something about it. Then it's clear that student support has been an important part of it, precisely because it gives students room to study, it gives them an economy to live off. Student housing has been important for the same reason — it gives them predictability of good living conditions and an economy from which to live. In addition, we have spent money on a separate scheme targeted at students' mental health. It was first under the Ministry of Knowledge and has now been transferred to the Ministry of Health and Welfare. It will be addressed in the new Public Health Communication. We spent money on ANSA to enable them to provide psychological services to Norwegian students who are abroad. It's doing a lot, but it's a challenge, and that's something we have to work with and deal with all the way. So I want to talk a little bit about this with student homes, because there's been new things, which make things different this year than they've been before. Firstly, I would like to say that, fortunately, we live in a democratic and free country, and it is not that the Ministry of Knowledge governs relations in detail. They control themselves and deliver the applications they want, and the Ministry of Knowledge has close and good dialogue with them. But what has happened now is that we have decided to adjust the price of the commitments from year to year. It makes it less attractive to deliver applications before one knows that one is ready to start building, because then it will lose itself in value if one has to wait. That's the one. The second is that the government has fallen on a high level. We have spent more than 2,000 dwellings a year – unlike the red-green ones, which had an average of 1,000 dwellings per year. This means that student relationships expect a high number of calls to be made next year, and therefore they are not so ‘other’ after submitting applications for commitments that are not quite clear. We wanted to build 3,400 student homes, but unfortunately we only got 1,448 this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e511	The representative, Martin Henriksen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e517	The representative Grimstad from the left used the slightly fancy expression "perceptive will". That's why I'm going to short the answers to both the Council of State and the representative of Gudmundsen. To the Council of State, I would like to say that my point in my first post is not about the will of the Council of State itself or the government, but that it is also in this revised national budget – if you ignore an oil money use of almost 7 billion. NOK – had 300 million. kroner left over, which could be used in Norwegian students, and chose not to do so. To answer the representative Gudmundsen's specific question: No, it's not wrong to adjust prices, it's not wrong to have higher rates for the construction of student housing, but it's wrong to keep Norwegian students fooled, and that's what the government did in this case. Today, the government had the chance to do what they didn't do in the revised national budget: give students a small but important patch on the wound. They didn't choose to do that either.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e524	A living conditions survey could provide us with the complete overview of the living conditions of Norwegian students, the study and housing conditions of students, their social networks, health and economics and working and leisure conditions. Developments over time could be described by comparing the results with previous student living conditions surveys. The study has previously been a valuable knowledge base for higher education management. It is not surprising that this will also be a debate on the financing of student loans and on housing. Then I notice that the government parties are beating themselves very hard on the chest and making a show-off list of all they're getting. But I want to repeat what I said in the reply: The government has no reason to hit the chest, because they bring one hand and give with the other. The bill is quite simple, and it is the Ministry of Knowledge that has carried it out: interest rebates for student loans as of 2015 they have saved 204 million. kr per. The phasing-out of the allowance scheme from 2016 to 2017 has saved 53 million. kr per. Reductions in the discount on the student loan rate from 2017 onwards have saved 365 million. kr per. The resolution of travel expenses in Norway and the Nordic countries for students has saved 25 million. kr per. That's how we can keep going, and the result is that what they've saved, they've returned through eleven months of study funding. But I don't think Norwegian students are so stupid that they don't realize they've been taken from anything, because the math is pretty simple. Then the representative Gudmundsen in this debate is unable to understand the criticism associated with student housing. So the government says they're going to build 3,400 student homes, and then they're just building half. And that's pretty straightforward. And then Gudmundsen says this is a move they get after finished studies – so it's kind of not that dangerous. Does the representative really think that Norwegian students are so stupid that they don't understand how simple these calculations are?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e537	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e553	At the request of the Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e562	This proposal for a representative was made following the submission of the second interim report in the ongoing evaluation of the absence limit in January and several proposals for amendments from the opposition parties have been made. There is no majority for any of these, and the main reason for this is simply that the majority wants the ongoing evaluation to be finalised before considering any changes. I assume that the proposers themselves will present their proposals during this debate. As is also evident from the attitude, there is a broad political consensus to reduce absenteeism in high school, and also to have an absenteeism limit. I'm glad. The absence limit has resulted in a significant decrease in absence, on average by 20 pst. since the introduction of the absence limit. Students are more present at school, have more grades than before, and less falls from. Ensuring that more students complete and pass high school is one of the main priorities of the government. We must have great ambitions on behalf of all the students, be able to lift the most vulnerable and build a stronger layer around each student. Students who do not complete secondary education have far worse chances of entering the labour market and a poorer starting point in society. There are not many jobs for unqualified people in today's society, and we have to make sure to give young people the skills they need. The second interim report shows that the absence limit has also had a positive effect on the most vulnerable students. Students who had the highest absence and the weakest grades have the greatest decline. That's good. In addition, the estimates of researchers indicate that there may be a small increase in the risk that several vulnerable students will not receive grades after the absence limit has been introduced. There is a difference between calculated risk and actual development, and so far there are no figures confirming that fewer students are getting grades, on the contrary, but of course we are going to take this seriously and follow up on the evaluation. The absence threshold is not the only measure intended to contribute to lower absenteeism and increased implementation in secondary school. As the setting indicates, a number of other measures have been taken by the government to contribute to it. However, the absence limit is a good tool to catch vulnerable students early and to provide them with the help they need. There are many reasons why a student drops out of high school. It is therefore important that schools work widely and systematically to follow up on these. Good policy must be based on knowledge, said the Labour Party representative, Nina Sandberg, during the discussion of the previous case, and the majority therefore consider it unfortunate to conclude after the two interim reports submitted to date. However, I look forward to the final evaluation and to a good decision-making basis to assess what works well at the current threshold of absence, and what may need to be adjusted or changed.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e583	It's good to see that school absences go down, it's just good that students are more present at school. And if the presence has contributed to more people completing the school, it's very nice. But there is also reason to stress in this debate and in this matter that we are far from being in the target of absence. There are still thousands of students who do not complete secondary or secondary education. Much more needs to be done in order for more to be implemented. While there is broad political consensus about having an absence limit in secondary education, the Labour Party and the rest of the opposition are also concerned that although an absence limit is very positive for many, the negative consequences must also be taken seriously. The evaluation of the absence limit provides important knowledge of both the positive and the negative consequences of the practice of the present absenteeism scheme. While the government has been very concerned about and pointed out what is positive and good, it has not been as eager to follow up the challenges identified by Fafo in its evaluation. It is serious that absenteeism has led to increased pressure and stress among students, and that the decline among the most vulnerable students is increasing. In the first interim report from Fafo, there are school leaders who tell of students who have not received money from their parents to possibly take the bus to a doctor. There aren't many, but the few that apply, it's very serious for. That's why it's important that we have a code that lets school leaders and teachers help them, rather than pushing them out of school. The aim of good rules of absence must be for students to be present at school, but also for them to carry out secondary education. The evaluation must now be used to make the legislation even better than we see today. In June 2016, when the Stortinget examined the proposal for a representative on the border of absenteeism, the government was asked to engage in dialogue with the sector on how to improve the rules on absenteeism. The size pointed in particular to the documentation requirement, the role of the health care provider and the ability of school managers to exercise discretion in this matter. When the Stortinget re-examined a proposal for a representative on the absenteeism in November 2016, the Stortinget government asked the government to use the evaluations to improve the legislation. The size also requested that driving training, which must take place at school, should not invalidate students’ absences. Therefore, we think that in this case it is very good, but the government lacks the will and ability to follow up the evaluation reports in a good way. We're looking forward to it being done, so we can see what the result can be. That is why I would like to promote the proposal we have together with the Central Party and the Socialist Left, and, on behalf of the Labour Party, make the following proposals: ‘The government is asking for the possibility of health care providers being granted the right to certify absences at school.’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e603	The representative Jorodd Asphjell has taken up the proposal he referred to, and the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e608	Let's first just see some facts. Three out of four students who started secondary education in 2012 completed and existed within five years. That's the highest number since the measurements started. The proportion that completes has increased by about 5 percentage points since the introduction of the Knowledge Lift in 2006. The increase in completion has been highest among low grade pupils from primary school, low-educated pupils and immigrant parents. Overall, the absence in secondary education has decreased by about 40 pst. after the introduction of the absence limit. The completion of secondary education has never been higher. It's interesting to see that fewer strokes and fewer ends. It may be a little early to conclude that it is only due to the absence limit, but it is reasonable to assume that being more at school also gives professional payoffs for the students. The Progress Party believes that the students have a clear obligation to meet for the teaching. We are therefore pleased that we now have a more stringent code to prevent high school scabs than we had before. An absence limit sends a clear signal to the students that this is not right. They have an obligation to attend the school. If students do not have a regular framework and learn that meeting duty is not important, they get serious problems both at school and in the workplace. And I think it's important to remember that high school students in Norway are very lucky. They have the right to free education, done by good teachers. Rightly follows the obligation as well. Students have an independent obligation to do the best out of school. A lot of absence is a problem not only for those who are absent, but also for other students, as it can go beyond education, class dynamics and group work. It goes without saying that a lot of absences go beyond students' learning, and that high absenteeism and high absenteeism are interrelated. Finding good solutions to this challenge requires a variety of measures. The government’s teacher’s lift, professional lift and new teacher’s training, together with stricter absence regulations, will in the long term help to bring the drop-off further down. Knowledge, education and preparation for adult life are interrelated. The school will give the students all of this. The rules of absence are a good tool for teachers, a tool that we in the Progress Party want to maintain. At the same time, it is important not to be locked in. There must be room for flexibility in the practice of the absence regulation, but we believe it is more natural to have a greater debate on the absence limit when the final report is ready.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e621	We all want to reduce the drop-out rate in higher education, but the question is how do we get it? Being present, getting instruction and having others around you standing and securing you when you're on your way up the unknown terrain in the climbing wall, is a prerequisite for success. Regulation on the national border for undocumented absences was introduced as of the school year 2016/2017. With undocumented absence of up to 10 pst. per subject and discretion room up to 15 pst. will be assessed by the students. Then the students lose the opportunity for peer reviews. Almost three out of four of those who started high school in 2012 completed within five years. But the absenteeism limit has hardly mattered to these students, as it entered their possible last school year for completion. How the absence limit actually affects the implementation of secondary education, we will only see when the final report following the follow-up evaluation is delivered in 2020. But if we now see unfortunate aspects of today's practice, we should recover before the damage becomes irreparable. Students in high school today do not have time to wait two to three years. It can determine their future. The centre party sees that the government is knocking on the chest and shows that the absence has fallen after the new legislation came into force. However, the absence statistics cannot be used as a facilitator for the scheme to work according to its purpose. The centre party supported the introduction of a limit on absenteeism, but we also saw the need to use reason and not create a too rigid system that creates unnecessary bureaucracy and targets those who need follow-up, most. The experience we have gained now, as the government also knows well, shows that there is a need for adjustments. Because it's not the government's intention that students go to school with a fever when they obviously don't have anything to do at school, because of themselves, learning and their surroundings? Nor is it the government's intention that similar cases be treated differently and recorded differently according to the practice of school and decision-makers. There are many more examples. The centre party believes that it is natural that absenteeism rules should be applied as closely as possible to the rules of the labour market. This means that we believe that self-announcement must be good when you, for example. are not ill enough for medical treatment but have influenza, migraines or the like. At that time, we believe it makes sense to give qualified students the right to self-announcement and the right to document the reason for the absence of unauthorised persons. It's funny to disenchant people like the rules they're now putting up with. In particular, I would like to draw up the Centre's proposal that self-announcement by parents and prospective or authoritative students be recognised as valid evidence of absence in case of illness and other welfare reasons, for up to three days – and that is the proposal of the Centre Party, which I would like to address.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e636	The representative Marit Knutsdatter Strand has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e641	The objective of reducing undocumented absences from education is agreed upon by all parties. No student gets the instruction they need without being present in the classroom. The big issue is about the current threshold of absenteeism, which is a good tool for ensuring that as many students as possible receive a good secondary education. There were two objectives of introducing the absenteeism limit. It should help to increase school attendance and reduce school dropout. Now we have research that shows that only one goal is achieved. Absence has been reduced, and it is important, but at the same time the absence limit leads to more students being ‘not assessed’, IV, in one or more subjects, and the likelihood of non-response is increasing. It worries me very much. I believe it is irresponsible by the Minister of Knowledge when, on this basis, he determines that the absence limit is good for all students, and that this report should put the discussion on the absence limit dead. The Minister of Knowledge said last year that he did not believe that there was any link between the absence limit and the increase in the proportion of students who were ‘not assessed’. The new Fafo report proves this context. Students in greatest need of help are simply being pushed out. It worries me that the Council of State Sanner concluded on a failed basis, and that he can now so easily claim that this is a success. The Minister of Knowledge should take Fafo's research seriously. The only lasting conclusion is that the absence limit is too rigid and that it appears to affect vulnerable groups. The report shows that the concerns of SV related to a static absence limit have been very real and that further changes are needed. Often, there are complex reasons why a student has a high level of absence. It may be a lack of motivation, dissatisfaction, mental health problems or a difficult family situation. Unfortunately, today's limit of absence may prevent these students from attending school. Instead, there is a need for presence, motivation, help for lifelong learning and organized school education. The debate on the absence limit cannot be put to death. When scientists warn against increased polarisation and non-response, it must be taken with the greatest seriousness. It must be expected from the whole country's education minister. SV is not satisfied with a policy that pushes students away from school. That is why we propose a number of adjustments in the absence limit that can counteract this, and I am therefore addressing the proposals SV is behind in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e656	The representative of Mona Fagerås has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e662	There is a broad political consensus on reducing the drop-out in secondary education, and it is therefore gratifying that high-ranking students completed high school last year. With the completion of secondary education, young people are better equipped for further education or work. We live at a time when knowledge and competence are becoming increasingly important, and then it is essential to ensure that everyone comes along. When the report from Fafo and the SSB shows that absenteeism in high school was reduced by approx. 20 pst. since the introduction of the absence limit, this is a very good number. It is also gratifying that the report shows that the absence limit has had the most positive effects for the most vulnerable students. However, for the Left, attendance provisions are not sufficient. We need to ensure that the students have good teachers who give close follow-up, and a team around the student who can assist with the challenges the student has. For the left, continued efforts on teachers will be the most important piece of school policy. We've got a master's degree for teachers that makes a larger proportion of the students now applying for teacher training. We have raised the status by, among other things, the introduction of character requirements and the provision of continuing training in more and more areas. However, in order to prevent non-response, we also need to build a team around the student. Students with high absences like to face challenges. Our long-standing commitment to school health is important in this regard. I also believe that the concept of changing the title of ‘health nurse’ to ‘health nurse’ was important to reach more people. It opens up more men in the school health service, and for some it can lower the threshold for getting help. For the Left, more professionals in the school health service are also important. We need, among other things: more psychologists, so that the conversation offer is available where the young people are and when they need it. The left has been critical to the limit of absence because we're afraid that some students are coming out very badly. We have therefore been concerned that it needs to be evaluated and that we need to look at new measures when the evaluation is completed. For the left, it would then be natural to see several factors in the context. If the percentage of pupils who delete is increasing because of higher absences, it is regrettable. We have to make sure that all students have the opportunity to exploit their potential. For some, not the number of days of attendance is crucial for what they get. Some people get little out of high school despite meeting each day, while others can get very good results with poor attendance. Therefore, it is important that in the evaluation of the absence limit, we take into account that students are different, that they learn in different ways, and that they need different forms of organisation to perform. When the evaluation is available, it will also be important to listen to the experience of schools and teachers in the field of absenteeism. As with school policy, we have confidence that school owners, principals and teachers have the best prerequisites for facilitating education for their students. It is therefore important that we do not restrict their ability to adapt through an excessive rigid regime of absenteeism.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e677	Absence limits in secondary schools are a means of ensuring that as many students as possible are implemented. It's not a goal in itself, it's an instrument. The rapporteur has explained to us what we know so far about the consequences of the implementation, as shown in the report from the SSB and Fafo. The provisional figures show a significant decrease in absenteeism, but it is still too early to conclude on the impact of the absence limit on implementation before receiving the second interim report in spring 2020. It is a central task to ensure that as many students as possible complete high school, and we agree that the implementation level has been too low over a long time. A slight increase in recent times — up to 75 pst. – tells of a positive development, although we are still far away from the measurement numbers where nine out of ten complete. It is therefore of great importance that we focus in the future on different ways of getting more people to complete. In particular in the professional field, we have seen that the non-response is large. It is therefore necessary to include a broad range of measures. The absence limit and how it works is one of them, but we know that there are also other measures that can help increase the level of completion. Targeted work on the psychosocial school environment, with close follow-up of students in the risk zone, is an important area of action. In his research from NTNU, Mjaavatn and Frostad show that social experience, i.e. loneliness and social relations with teachers, explains 25.4 pst. for the reason of non-response. The most powerful factor is solitude. We also recognise this in the new external accounts of the KS, which concludes with the importance of preventing rather than repairing. This type of research shows us that efforts to combat the dropout must be tackled by several teams, with different types of tools. It is also important, in the view of the Christian People's Party, to stress the importance of the work of the four government parties, and not least the introduction of the teaching norm. Fewer students per teacher provide closer and better follow-up for each student in primary school and provide a better basis for mastering the transition from primary to secondary school. We also need to strengthen our efforts to combat bullying through better lawmaking and the introduction of bullying agents in all counties. We need to have reason to believe that there is a stronger focus on prevention of psychosocial problems. This is a bet that needs to be continued. There are also other measures that focus on reducing non-response, such as: the commitment to the competence of professional trainers. Exciting trials are taking place around different parts of the country. In our own part of the country, we know both Lindesneslosen and Venneslabrua, who address the challenges that perhaps the weakest have, in order to get good follow-up action so that they can implement them.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e692	Work to increase the implementation of secondary education is a high priority of the government. The arrows point in the right direction, almost 75 pst. of the graduates in 2012, completed within five years. That's the highest rate ever. But of course we'll do more. That's why we aim that by 2030, nine out of ten will complete high school. We will continue to develop and implement policies to achieve this. The presence at school is a prerequisite for learning. Students who are able to complete their courses also have better opportunities to complete their studies. That's why we're going to be glad that the researchers say that the absence limit has reduced the absence by 20 pst. on average, especially when the most vulnerable students have reduced their absence most. When the students are more at school, the schools can help those who need it. Therefore, the time we are discussing whether to have an absence limit must be over. It is much more important that we discuss how more people should implement higher education. Proposalers point out that the absence limit may have increased the risk of some students becoming unqualified. For the time being, the actual figures show that there are more, not less, students who are rated after the introduction of the absenteeism threshold. It is therefore incorrect when it is claimed that several are ‘not assessed’. It is important that vulnerable students receive the support they need to complete the training cycle. A number of different measures are needed. An important step is to start early. This is why we have an obligation for schools to provide intensive schooling for 1–4 students. steps to be followed in reading, writing or billing. Another important step is to give everyone a good transition from primary to secondary school. This is why we are now investigating how county municipalities can get extended and comprehensive responsibility for young people aged 16 to 24. We want more people to be offered more primary education before they start high school, if necessary. Proposalers will change the absenteeism limit and feel that it is too rigid. They want schools to have more opportunity to use discretion. I would like to remind you that in today's legislation, there is already flexibility and the ability to use judgement. The students can have 10 pst. undocumented absences in each subject before having an impact on the threshold of absence. It's also so that the principal can use discretion by up to 15 pst. absence. Let me also show that the absence limit is now being evaluated, and that the final report will come in the spring of 2020. After that time it will be quite natural both to evaluate and possibly come back with adjustments if necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e708	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e713	Undocumented absences have fallen into high school. We can establish that, and it's very positive. Students must be at school, and it is right to expect and demand it. But what we don't have a good overview of is the total absence in high school. This is because the overview includes the decrease or increase in undocumented absence, because it is what the absence limit is about. So the statistics show how much absence you get on the diploma. To give an example, if you were away one day a month before the introduction of the absence limit, you got undocumented absences. If, after the introduction of the absence limit, one day of the month is gone and you get proof of your absence, you have the same absence, but it's different statistics. It's positive that undocumented absences go down, but we've wanted a complete overview of the absences at school to know how much students actually are at school. My question to the Council of State is: When the evaluation is due to be completed, will it take the initiative to obtain such an overview of the total absence?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e722	If I correctly interpret the representative Henriksen, the Labour Party asks that we have even more report from the school. That is how the question needs to be interpreted. In other school debates, the Labour Party points out that there is too much reporting. In other words, we have to think about what we actually want to report on. I believe it is important that we have an overview of the undocumented absence. We follow up on important parameters, namely that there are several who complete, there are several – not fewer – who get the character of the subjects, and we see that undocumented absences go down. It must be the most important thing. I don't see it as a central task to ask for even more reporting from the schools. I think both the schools and the teachers feel that there is enough reporting already.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e727	The reason I'm asking about it is because the previous council suggested that it could be relevant with such an overview. The reason for this is first of all that documented absence is something that schools have an overview of, and it wouldn't be a big job for them to report it in at the same time as reporting the undocumented absence and the decline in it. The second reason is that when you refer to the decline in undocumented absence, it is easy to believe that it means that students are so and so much more in school. But it doesn't have to be the case if they've had documented absences for it. The point here is – as the government has also claimed, and as the Labour Party agrees – that it is a point to know how much students actually are at school. Fafo has done his evaluation. In the past, they have warned against saying anything absolute about how the changes in absence have been, because there were probably differences in how absenteeism was carried before the absence limit was introduced. This also gives us the opportunity to learn more about the situation at school and more about the kind of action you need to take to ensure more presence.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e732	I did not realize that there was a question at the end of the article. Let me just say that my threshold for introducing even more reporting is quite high. That doesn't mean I'm depreciating that proposal. Of course, we have to look at it when we go into the evaluation. Where, on the other hand, I believe that there is reason both to research more and to look at the challenges, is in the transition between high school and high school, because the challenges some students and student groups have do not start at high school. Too many start earlier. We know that there is a connection between high levels of absence in high school and high levels of absence in high school. We also know that many of the students who have the weakest grades have less chance to complete and pass. I believe that we should address these challenges in order to achieve our common goal, namely that more students should complete and pass.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e737	Teachers, Vice-Chancellors and decision-makers experience frustration about the practice and enforcement of the rules at the absence limit. Lawyers have been so busy asking if the students are at risk of being ‘not assessed’ before taking the students into medical school. Does the Council of State see the need to change a bureaucratic system that takes time for already charged permanent doctors, or does the government not trust that the students and their superiors can certify absences due to sickness or other social conditions?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e744	Let me just say that there's flexibility in the absenteeism. That's how you can have 10 pst. undocumented absences in each subject. In addition, the principal has the ability to exercise discretion up to 15 pst. absence. Then I am also familiar with the fact that many decision makers experience that they have increased pressure after the introduction of the absence limit. There is one of several issues that I think we should look at when we are going to evaluate the absence limit after we have received the latest report in spring 2020. But I believe it would now be wrong to address individual elements in the absence limit and start adjusting them before we have received the latest report.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e751	The flexibility of today's legislation does not extend to all students. Challenges and unhealthy stress are that there is a link between support and demands. When students lose the basis for professional assessment and fail to meet the requirements they are faced with, how does the Council of State feel that students should be able to find support and motivation to perform in other subjects and schools?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e757	Here I believe that it is not the limit of absence that is the problem. There are other factors that help many students to experience pressure and stress, that more students are struggling in high school, and that many are struggling to finish. I believe that we need to address those challenges. The absence limit has helped us to draw attention to the problem that some students are too far away from school and have too high undocumented absences. The absenteeism itself does not solve all the challenges, but helps us to get more facts on the table, and that the teacher, the school and the team around us can help us lift and help the students who are struggling, and help to get more people to complete and survive.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e764	Two secondary schools in Oslo have schemes with a more flexible school day. On 26 April last year, Oslo City Council decided that the students should be given an opportunity for a flexible school day where this was desirable by the school. The decision originated from the proposal of the City Council of Youth, and the reason was that many students in the Oslo school experience school day as having little flexibility and feel that the absence limit has reinforced this problem. The feedback from teachers and students at both schools has been very positive. Since then, uncertainty has arisen as to whether flexible school days are in contravention of the current legislation on absenteeism – national framework to ensure an equivalent training provision for students. The municipality of Oslo has therefore asked Udir for clarification, but is still waiting for an answer. Is the Minister aware that the Municipality of Oslo has had a contact with Udir, and how does the Council of State address such local solutions, with which they have good experience?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e769	On a general basis, I'm positive for trials. Both schools and school owners have a great deal of room for action. But with regard to the specific matter and the specific contact to the Education Directorate, I do not know about it. I think it's natural that I'm waiting to have views on it until we've received the professional assessment from the Education Directorate.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e774	If I said something wrong in my post, I would like to regret it. What is clear in this context is that researchers argue that the absence limit has slowed down the positive decrease in the proportion ‘not assessed’ and that students with high absences are now at greater risk of getting ‘not assessed’. In the evaluation report, the death rate of absenteeism is a key finding that absenteeism is significantly reduced, but that there is an increasing risk of an increase in non-response. Researchers point out that there has been an increased risk of not getting an assessment basis in one or more subjects, especially for the most vulnerable students. I hope the minister can say a little about what he thinks about these findings.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e783	I believe the Fafo report is important. It is an important contribution to the debate on the absence limit and, not least, on what we can do for students who are most vulnerable or most vulnerable, who are at risk of not getting a grade. My point is that it is not that fewer people are rated – there are more. But it's calculated a risk, where they've looked at the curve, and if the curve over the decline among those who didn't get the character, just had to remain, it might have been a greater decline than it has been now. We know that curves will often surface out, so I wouldn't put too much emphasis on it. But the problem they're raising, that there are students and student groups that are exposed, I think maybe one of the most important discussions: how can we help to get more of them to complete and survive? I also pointed out in my reply to Martin Henriksen that we have to look at high school and how we can help more people get a better transition and that more people actually finish.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e788	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e793	The absence limit is an undue obstacle to the participation and involvement of young people in political work. The Directorate-General for Education’s interpretation of the absence limit in secondary education resulted in an invalid absence of climate-stripping young people to participate in the nationwide climate strike on 22 March. Political strike is a democratic right for workers in Norway, and this should also apply to pupils. There Chancellor Angela Merkel hails the climate-stripping youth in Germany, Norwegian students meet with little understanding from the Norwegian government. Yes, the Minister of Knowledge has even made it a point that the so-called climate policy summits with youth representatives from, among others. Nature and Youth were to be added after school. I wonder if this is a practice he adheres to in meeting other organisations and lobbyists whom the knowledge minister invites to the ministry. It seems that the government will use the absenteeism limit to strangle the climate strike, and it is clear that they find the students' climate criticism unpleasant. Now young people are making their way around the world to meet the climate crisis. Then they must be thanked, not punished, for taking care of our planet and our future. In the Directorate-General for Education’s circular on the absence limit: ‘However, students may receive half-yearly assessments of their character and position if they can demonstrate that the absence beyond 10 per cent comes from: Reasons for health and welfare trustfully chosen work political work auxiliary work [[...]] Furthermore, if the absence is to be exempted, it must be documented. In the case of absence for political reasons, this can be demonstrated by a political organisation. In the past, the exemption provision has been interpreted and practised differently, so that students who have participated in political strikes have not been admitted to absence in some places as invalid. Children and young people's voices deserve to be heard. The democratic rights of children and young people must be respected. The political commitment of children and young people must be supported, not punished. On this basis, the SV has made a proposal in this case, which says: ‘The size of the government will make necessary changes to the rules or interpretation of the rules on the absence limit, so that participation in major events and political strikes is covered by the exemption rule [[...]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e831	I am pleased that what emerges from the debate here today is not only a broad consensus on a desire to have lower absenteeism and increased implementation, but also on ensuring good follow-up, that we should have high expectations for all students, but not least ensure good follow-up for those students who need it the most. There have also been government parties here today. It is therefore strange when it is claimed in the Chamber today that the government lacks the ability and willingness to follow up the findings of the two interim reports. I seem to see that it has become a pattern where opposition parties are trying to promote representative proposals to get the government in advance in a work that is already in progress. When we introduced the absence limit, it was clear that this was to be evaluated after three years. In this process we have received two interim reports, and I think it would be more than strange if we were to start action now before we have the full knowledge base. We've been clear; this has to be followed up. Then I would like to point out that SV's representative Mona Fagerås repeated, as she has done in other contexts, a claim that the Council of State and the government will put the debate on the absenteeism to death. It won't be right if you repeat it multiple times. This was also corrected in our comments. What we have said is that we can put the debate on the introduction of the absence limit dead, but of course we should follow up the evaluation and continue the debate on the absence limit to be sure that we will have an absence limit in the future that actually serves the students in the best possible way, and see if anything should be changed or adjusted. I feel that what happens when you do this is that you make an alternative description of reality in order to be able to debate and argue against something that is actually not true. I suggest to the representative that when she checks maps and terrain, she tries to change the map instead of the terrain. It rarely works very well. It's easier to adjust to the reality that's already there. Finally, I would like to comment: it is said here that the government parties are beating their breasts and have a show list. No, but we are very pleased with the progress that is. We're going to keep working, as we've already talked a lot about today, to make sure that high school students get the best high school we can give them, and that even more people are able to finish and pass.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e844	The debate is about landing, but I think it is important to point out that the debate is very much about the knowledge base presented by Fafo. In a last year’s Fafo report, it is noted that the practice of the absence limit has led to more stress and greater non-response among the most vulnerable students. This warned the Centre Party against the introduction of the absence limit. The Minister of Knowledge took no notice of this then and does not do it now. Neither the schools nor the students nor their superiors have the tool they need to deal with this. The government parties are pushing ahead with the challenges towards the final report, which is due in 2020, but the bulk of the population has already decided in 2016, in the light of the experience of the absence limit up to that time, to consider changes in the absence regulation, in particular to give schools greater opportunity to use judgement in the enforcement of the absence regulation. Running absences and meeting requirements was nothing new in 2016. The discussion about driving training has also been raised in more recent times. The centre party thought that driving training in school hours should not be considered absences, and we still believe it. In early 2016, the Stortinget asked the government to engage in dialogue with the schools to improve the rules of absence, indicating in particular the high level of documentation requirements, the role of health care providers and the ability of school managers to exercise discretion. This call must be made today, too, and we do not feel that the dialogue is good enough. It is good that the government will have a follow-up evaluation, but there is no doubt that the Stortinget has been very active and clear in ordering, and that we have expected this in implementing a national absenteeism limit from the school year 2016/2017. As I said, an absence limit has been practiced in various forms for a long time. It is very unfortunate that the Storting does not have the same will to take control today. We're going to continue to stand on to fix the back of the medal, which we see doesn't have the intended purposes we wanted when the absence limit was introduced, and which we also believed the majority in the Grand Duchy shared, but which we still have to raise.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e855	The representative of Mona Fagerås has had the word twice before, and gets the word for a short note of up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e860	I have to answer Mr. Turid Kristensen's question. I'm not making an alternative reality description, I'm actually quoting a Fafo report. Right should have taken Fafo's research seriously. There is only one durable conclusion that the absence limit is too rigid and that it appears to affect vulnerable groups. It gives a clear reason to have a proper review of the scheme, so that it can become more flexible. Current provision of the absenteeism limit does not provide the schools with sufficient opportunity to follow-up those students who need additional support. The way the rules are practiced today, it's socially outrageous. Experience from Oslo suggests that the absence limit is mainly positive for the good students and the resource-intensive students, but not to the same extent for low-intake students, minority-speaking students and those struggling with complex problems. We can't have it like that in Norwegian school.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e868	It may not be so strange that the map is wrong with the terrain when you're a little bit poor at reading the map, because that's not what I said in my post when I said that the representative drew out an alternative reality description. There is no one who contests the findings of the interim report that exists, but what is not true is that the government parties and the government will not follow it up, and at least the repeated claim that we have said that we should put the debate on the absenteeism death. It's been corrected many times. What we have said is that we can put the debate on whether it is right to have an absence limit, death, but that of course we should follow up the reports that have been submitted, not least through the final evaluation. I look forward to getting that evaluation, because the point is that we don't know what works well and not well. There are a number of challenges that have also been discussed here today, and we are going to take this seriously. I hope that when we have completed that evaluation, we have managed to correct what we might need to correct, and with that, we have got an even better limit of absence. But I think it's okay that we relate to reality when we debate things in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e875	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e891	At the request of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that up to six lines of reply are given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e900	The purpose of the National Audit Office’s examination of the handling of objections to planning issues was to assess how national and significant regional interests are safeguarded in municipal spatial planning and how the Opposition Institute acts as a tool to safeguard those interests. I would like to thank the Committee on constructive dialogue and cooperation on the matter, and I assume that the SV will comment on its comments and minority proposals. The size depends on the national and regional interests to be safeguarded in particular in land-use planning, by means of legislation. This is e.g. soil protection, natural diversity, the interests of children and young people, road safety, protection of coastal zones or other natural areas to be taken into account in particular. At the same time as these considerations are to be taken into account, the Planning and Building Act provides for the possibility for each municipality to adapt its plans by means of powers to grant exemptions in specific cases. This possibility is given because sometimes there may be more considerations that need to be weighed against each other. However, the Authority has not been granted in order to set aside the grounds for the Storting. The institution of objection shall ensure that the overriding interests are safeguarded where the local planning authorities themselves do not adequately address them. In this way, a balance can be struck between the possibility of local practical adaptation which cannot be captured by national legislation, while continuing to safeguard national and regional interests. My opinion is that this is a system that works well. I notice that the Riksrevision assumes a risk that the overall considerations are not followed up, and it seems that the Riksrevision is concerned on the basis that the number of objections goes down. In my opinion, it would be ideal if all plans were made in such a way that there was no need for objections, and that exemptions were used in such a way that no objections were necessary. My impression, as I said, is that the dialogue between the trade unions is good and that they are increasingly achieving a common understanding of the priorities to be and must be done in the run-up to the plan. Objections can then be avoided. This is good use of both finance and resources. However, the Committee has noted that the Riksrevision in its main findings points to important points of improvement. The function of the county councillors to coordinate state objections is a system that is good for the municipalities, but when it appears to result in closed processes that do not provide insight into what the actors in the process think, it gives cause for concern. Both transparency, predictability and good protocol procedures seem to be possible to improve and must be a prerequisite for further practice. The National Audit Office also points out in its report that there are considerable differences between the states in the organisation and management of the Planforum. In some states, plan forums work very well, contribute to better plans and thus fewer objections. In other counties, it works poorly, and there is a great variation in how good municipalities are to report matters to the plan forum. So here it's a potential for improvement, and there's a lot of evidence that the good examples have to be used to help the counties that don't get it. Dispensations, objections and subsequent complaints form a complex picture of the background and reasons. Therefore, in order to find out if the system we have around the planning process today is working, it is very important to put in place good data. The National Audit Office points out that there are major weaknesses in the quality of the management information used by the Department today. This is mainly related to the uncertainty about the reporting procedures. Everything suggests that there is under-reporting on the use of exemptions. It is also not possible to see the scope of the various cases. The Council of State points out that the SSB is already working to improve reporting requirements and their guidance. I am pleased that the Council of State is clear that this should be followed up further in order to obtain a better basis for assessing whether the instruments are of general interest. I myself have been the rapporteur and must admit that there was sometimes a great deal of frustration over objections. They came from many teams with different reasons, they were not coordinated, and there was little dialogue in advance to solve them. Today I am sitting with a perception that it works much better. That's good. I maintain the hope of such good planning and cooperation between departments that the number of objections continues to decline, while at the same time safeguarding national and significant regional interests. After all, everyone is at last concerned with the well-being of the inhabitants.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e917	It is an important matter we handle here today. I would like to thank the case manager for a good work on the matter and show his comments before me. The aim of the National Audit Office’s report was to examine how national and regional interests are managed in the context of municipal spatial planning. The counter-institution shall contribute to the preservation of national and important regional interests in this area. Examples of this are soil protection, coastal zone, natural disasters, public health, cultural memory, reindeer management, children’s and young people’s interests, road safety and hazards. We know that the use of contradictions to preserve national and important regional interests in planning issues is tight and that more emphasis is placed on local freedom of action in municipal spatial planning. This decision is repeated in several ways. However, it is important that the national targets to be met by the counterinstitution are properly followed. The majority in the committee believe that a clear goal must be to give such good leadership and to have such good dialogue and understanding in the planning work in the municipalities that there will be no need for contradictions. The Ministry has updated the guidelines for the use of countersigns. The Riksrevision report shows that, together with the expanded function of the statesmen in coordination with the State counterparts, this has led to the fact that they are now better grounded than they were in the past. This is important, because it gives greater understanding and not less acceptance for the contradictions that are encountered. The Regional Planforum does little to coordinate interests and reduce the number of countersigns. The Committee has noted that the Council of State is in agreement with the Riksrevision that the Regional Plan Forum has a potential for improvement in some counties. I assume that the department will follow up on the state of that debt. Openness is important in our society, also in this matter. The members of the government have been given an extended function of coordinating and intercepting government countersigns. I agree with the Riksrevision that if this happens in closed processes, without transparency about what the different interests are, and that any dialogue meeting cannot be documented through a referendum, then this may be problematic. The lack of openness and a careful planning process also do not comply with the required requirements. As the majority in the Committee emphasises, the counter-institution is a good tool for the preservation of national and regional interests when these are not taken care of by the planning process. A clear goal must be so good leadership, so good dialogue and so good understanding of the planning work in the municipalities that there is no need for contradictions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e934	First, I would like to thank the President-in-Office for his good work. The centre party is a strong fan of local self-government. We are concerned that those who live closer to each other know the challenges best. For this reason, it is correct that both the county councils and the county councillors are left to contradict. We think that it is good that there will be fewer countersigns, and it may seem that local authorities have more influence on local development. The centre party joins in the majority vote in the committee, and the case leader has done well for the challenges that exist. But at the same time as we want local self-government, we are aware that there are areas that are so important to us that one must have national leadership. I want to point in particular to soil protection, which is also important for creating natural disasters. I understand SV, who has a minority comment on this, and I think that one needs to focus more on this, but I notice that they are more concerned about natural deprivation and outdoor life and do not seem to have the same care for soil protection. The National Audit Office points out that they are missing from the Regional Plan Forum and that they vary in their level of performance today. In these meetings, questions of different interests between municipalities, counties and sectoral governance powers shall be clarified as early as possible. Discussion in the planning forum is particularly necessary for the municipal plans, but also for municipal plans and larger regulatory plans. It appears that these forums, designed to monitor and coordinate interests, have different access to resources, rentals and secretarial services. This one must do something about. I am of the opinion that local and regional work around planning processes is good development. Unfortunately, in recent years we have seen that there has been less money for local development work in county municipalities. Priority should be given to regional planning forums. While coordination from the State of countersigns is good, it must ensure that these processes are transparent, so that all parties can be sure that their views have been properly assessed. So it's important that we talk about the minutes of these meetings. When it comes to the reporting figure, the Riksrevision believes that a better overview of the exemptions is needed. I would like to stress that the Riksrevision believes that there is a need to ensure that there is more clarity in the reporting by the state to improve the quality of the KOSTRA speech on the countersigns and to improve the knowledge of the dispensation practices of the municipalities. When fewer countersigns and fewer applications go to the department, I am a little concerned about the reference from the Riksrevision that fewer of the countersigns sent to the department are followed – often without a professional basis. It makes me worried about a part of the important national leadership, not least for soil protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e959	First of all, I would like to commend the last speaker – very fine signals from the representative of the Central Party. He pointed out the cultivation of land in particular, but perhaps this representative also had nature in the back of his head. We have today a case for treatment that has a very serious character, I think. What we're talking about is how we take care of Norwegian nature, cultivate land and nature, against expansion. And we've got a new background, the report from the United Nations Panel on Nature. It was presented on May 6th this year and tells of serious figures in terms of loss of species and nature in the world. We're talking about an estimated 8 million species of animals and plants being threatened by extinction. More seriously, it can't be said. We have a climate report, which everyone takes seriously. Now we've got an almost equally serious, equally big and equally thorough report on the state of nature in the world. We must also take this seriously. We are unable to achieve the UN's 2020 sustainability targets. The Aichi targets we can't achieve. We have now received some warnings that we cannot take into account. Yes, our Environment Minister said this about the report when it was presented: «Now we have to take the Nature Panel message inwards before it is too late. We have to act now," said Elvesuen. He then refers to international action, while we are certainly very good here in Norway – at least this is what the government's press release shows. But Norway is not much better off than it is internationally. Every five species in Norway are threatened, and the wilderness areas shrink – year by year. So here in Norway, as elsewhere in the world, it's the land disposal, or the wrong land disposal, which is the main reason. The department of science, KLD, knows the people of the Environment Directorate, not to mention the research environments and environmental organisations. This is general knowledge. So it's the wrong land management that's the key to building up, building up, filling in, fragmenting biotopes, etc. We have to take this in, and it's going very fast. The National Audit Office's report confirms much of what SV has been doing for a very long time. SV says the opposition institute has been weakened. There's no doubt about it. And that's the government's deliberate policy – something I, among other things. on 27 November last. This was said in a very clear text already at the government change in 2013. In the election campaign, Erna Solberg said that she wanted an embellishment and liberalisation of the development processes. I'm sure she called it simplification, because it sounds a lot nicer. But that simplification is at the expense of something. We've seen that. She then announced that she would have a review of the Nature Diversity Act, which is not very old. It's a big obstacle, she said. And she also said, ‘That doesn’t mean we’re not too nature-diversity. But that means that consideration sometimes has to be weighed better than they do today. There is a need to see whether there are too large powers in the law that can block projects.» So she announced before the election that a new grip was to be taken to make it easier to build in the beach zone and use snowmobiles and helicopters in nature, for example. – thus more and more liberalisation with nature as a loser. If there is a field of this government, with the Right Party and the Advance Party as a proponents, that has not lacked any power of action, it is precisely in this field. Final decision on objections, including, inter alia: The county has set foot for degradation and expansion, was transferred from the Ministry of the Environment to the Ministry of Local Affairs – it is widely known. It's a strong grip and a strong signal in itself. So now there is no longer any overall environmental concern to count, but developmental considerations – or important societal considerations, as the Council of State would probably say. Then there was a couple of circulars, on which I have a nice name, in 2014 – and it was also updated one in 2016 and 2017 – with clear leaderships to raise fewer objections. I will justify our proposals a little more concretely in the next article and, finally, I will just deal with the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e983	The representative Arne Nävra has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e988	The Planning and Building Act will facilitate sustainable development of land and society, and municipalities are given the main role in that work. Government and regional authorities shall assist the municipalities in planning. The institution of objection is a safety valve, which may be used when national and significant regional interests are not safeguarded. The aim is for municipalities to take into account overall leadership in planning, so that objections are avoided. The National Audit Office emphasises that the use of the Objection Institute has been tightened up. That's right, and that's a result of a conscious policy since 2013. The municipalities experienced in the past that the state promoted too many and unwarranted objections. The government has given leadership that objections should only be promoted when necessary and that consideration for local democracy should be given more importance. This has been necessary to change an unfortunate practice and to strengthen the legitimacy of the institution of objection. Many departments and state agencies have clarified national interests within their disciplines. The Ministry of Climate and Environment has issued a circular on national interests in the field of the environment. DSB and NVE have provided guidance on social security in municipal plans. National expectations for municipal and regional planning have just been adopted. Such leadership provides a basis for early clarifications in the planning processes and reduces the need for objections. Coordination of state objections was established as a permanent mechanism in 2018. I believe it is right that the County coordinates the interests of the State and helps resolve objections as early as possible in the planning processes. Regional Planning Forum is an arena where municipalities can discuss planning matters with regional and state authorities. I'm going to actively follow up both of these arrangements. The work on improving opposition practices has produced results. KOSTRA figures show that the share of plans met with objections has decreased. The proportion of municipal plans met with objections has been reduced from 60 pst. in 2013 to 51 pst. in 2017. The share of the regulatory plans met with objections has been reduced from 35 pst. in 2013 to 19 p.m. in 2017. The large decline in the share of anti-corruption regulatory plans is important for builders who need to clear their projects quickly. The Ministry of Local Affairs and Modernisation deals with 20-30 objections each year. This constitutes only 1 to 2 pst. of all plans adopted. This government has fully supported the municipalities in 50 pst. of the matters we have dealt with. For 30 p.m. of the cases we have given the municipalities partial support, and in 20 pst. have been implemented by the objectors. I believe that we fully justify our decisions and find solutions that balance local and national interests. Data on objections are important. I believe that COSTRA reporting in this area provides a good basis for monitoring developments over time. The possibilities for granting exemptions provide the necessary flexibility in the planning system. However, if the size becomes too large, it may undermine the planning system. I agree that reporting in this area can be better, and will address this with the SSB. The Government will continue its efforts to improve opposition practices, in line with the recommendations of the National Audit Office. The follow-up must also be seen in the context of the follow-up to the evaluation carried out of the plan part of the Planning and Building Act, EVAPLAN. The objective is more efficient planning processes and good, locally anchored plans as the basis for sustainable land management.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e1013	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e1018	The centre party supports the fact that there have been fewer countersigns and more coordination, we believe it is good for both local democracy and for the inhabitants and for the builders. But when there is so much less, and one sees that even the contradictions that come to the department – often with a professional basis to support the contradictions – are lifted, then I am a little concerned about the most important interests that we have nationally today. One may point to soil protection and other measures. It seems to me that it is more important for the ministry to have fewer possible countersigns and supported municipalities in the most possible cases than really to stand up for the important issues. Any comments?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e1024	Yes, to the very highest degree. I travel a lot around and meet many local politicians everywhere in the country, and so still complaints about the scope of objection are one of the most frequently raised. So it probably doesn't feel out there as if the case is so dramatic. And if you think about the numbers that I showed you here, you're going to get one to two percent of all things. We've reduced the scope, it's a misguided policy, but I can't strongly stress that every single case is dealt with separately, and every single case is thoroughly reviewed professionally. And of course, we coordinate this with the departments involved, not least with the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the Ministry of Climate and Environment, in most cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e1032	What worries me is when there's a signal from statesmen and regional authorities that there's no help for them in running on counters if they don't come to an agreement in the first discussion meeting. For they are more or less encouraged by central authorities not to move forward, or they are not supported when it really storms. And these are often the important issues where there is a great deal at stake – both soil protection and natural degradation. How does the Minister perceive it, if it is such that a person is not able to deal with the most important matters regionally because they do not feel that they are being supported centrally?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e1037	Our rapporteurs and local authorities therefore believe that they do not receive support for their plans, and then they clearly believe – in the forums referred to by the representative – that they are not supported. We consider each case separately, and so we have given local authorities support in half of the cases, we have given support to the statesmen and the opposition authorities in 20 pst. by the cases, and in 30 pst. we have given full or partial support. I think that shows that we have a fairly balanced approach. So we have a very comprehensive objection institute in this country: we have 18 states, subject to 12 departments. All the counties have objection authority in agriculture, the environment, public health and social security, and the counties have it in cultural memories. So there is no lack of objection. Now the county officials coordinate this and determine the ambiguities as early as possible in the planning process. I think this is a sensible development, and we should continue to improve the opposition institute – which is a safety valve, and not a general rule.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e1044	In connection with the interpellation that I had with the Council of State before Christmas, she never admitted the connection between liberalisation, making it easier to expand – the grips that the government has taken, to which I referred – and the loss of nature. Does the Council of State now see that context?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e1049	My view of this is the same. I then claimed – and I now claim – that there will be no more natural diversity of objections. It's also the way that the sense is well distributed. I believe that one must either take seriously that one has local self-government, that one takes the necessary considerations locally, takes the necessary reviews, does the professional job, or then one must state the entire land policy. That's the consequence of thinking that it's only here in Oslo – in Stortinget, in departments and in directorates – you can make a professional assessment. My view of this is firm. I think you have a good knowledge of your land policy locally. I think it's doing a good job. Most of the cases are dealt with locally — and without any objections.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e1058	As far as I have seen of the cases that the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation has tried, or failed to take account of, the objections, there have been several cases where professional advice has not been followed, and where the Department of Environmental Protection of the County has very often been involved. In some cases, even the department of the Climate and Environment has been involved. This means that the Department – the Minister of Local Affairs and her staff – is reviewing professional advice. We've had more of these things. I can mention the famous county road case in Karmøy, how great natural values were at stake, and where even the Civil Ombudsman was inside the picture – and where the Council of State did not take the objection. The same applies to several cab construction cases. Doesn't the Council of State see that connection?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e1065	I am a little uncertain about what the representative refers to. The representative is familiar with the mandate structure. It's me as the department manager who makes decisions in the last instance. We get input -- we get it from different professional authorities and businesses. We need to assess the totality, and then we need to make a political decision. That's what we're doing. We justify any decision – you can read it out of the emphasis.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e1072	Then I would like to ask the Council of State: how seriously is she looking at the latest UN report that came, about the state of nature? That's what we call the Nature Panel report, how many thousand pages did evidence that nature disappears all over the globe, and that wrong land management is now the main cause of loss of species and of valuable nature. What action will the Council of State take to ensure that Norway is not part of what many researchers call the sixth extermination?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e1077	I think the report is very serious. That is why I am pleased that we in Norway have such a thorough piece of legislation associated with this. We have guidelines, regulations and laws that must take care of natural diversity. But then in this room we also decided that local authorities are land managers, they are the ones who are going to make the professional assessments in their administrations, in their political forums. Then we have safety valves, and I've just explained how extensive the opposition institute is. There is no lack of opportunity to stop plans that we believe are going wrong, but we believe that in fewer of the issues we are dealing with than the previous government did.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e1084	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e1091	What has nature ever done for us? The question later to be asked regularly in government corridors — before another decision to allow for the reduction of valuable nature is taken. It's so obvious that we almost don't see it. Nature cleanses the air we breathe in, the water we drink, and the earth we grow our food in. It gives us clothes, medicines and materials. Often we discover what this is worth through disasters. Where the mangrove forest was intact, more tsunami survived than where the mangrove forest was destroyed. In almost all flood disasters, including in Norway, they have been found to have been exacerbated by the destruction of soil, wetlands and forests. The costs are going to be huge, calculated in humans and in billions. Most plant and animal species are not necessarily charming creatures. Maybe it's sad to think that we're no longer going to find panda, polar bear, penguin and gorilla, but what about fat kuka, the creepy animal and yellow buckthorn slav — the species that are ugly, informal, small and with names that only a scientist can love? But the scientist shows that all these species are useful. Everyone plays a role in the big context where everything is connected with everything, and together forms the ecosystem services that guarantee people life and well-being. Common to the species I mentioned is that they are either heavily threatened, or that we have too little knowledge of the state of these species at home in Norway. Losses by nature are not just happening abroad. It also happens here. Every five species in Norwegian nature are more or less at risk of dying if you don't do anything, and that's the area changes, the way we use our nature, which is the greatest threat. In view of this, we need to read the Government Platform's objective of reducing the number of objections raised by government authorities when these authorities consider that important natural values are at stake. Under the current government, it has become increasingly easier to get permission to destroy nature. One of the last governments has done is to allow extensive cabin construction in the villa area west of Hardangervidda, in the Sysendalen in Eidfjord municipality – against the clear, professional recommendation of Fylkemansen. When we don't even take care of species we have an international responsibility to take care of, like wild fauna – what is left of the government's nature protection policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e1103	Now that the government has used its right to reorganise, as it has knowingly done, and has undermined the possibilities of the opposition institute – that is, often undermined the possibilities of professional objection – we need to look at whether there are other fines within the framework set by the government. According to the Riksaudition, several states that, due to the steering signals, they have been more restrained from promoting objections and that they make more compromises than in the past when discussing planning matters with the municipalities. I've seen more of these things. Some of them have been scary. I've had a lot of contact with different statesmen around. Among other things, I have followed matters in Buskerud closely, and I have seen how the County Administration earlier made strong professional objections to large cabin construction projects. It is probably enough to mention Turufjell in the municipality of Flanders, with nearly 2,000 high-standard cabins in against Vassfaret protection area. According to the new circulars, the County did not appear to be able to raise any objections, but had a serious criticism of the plans. Had another government been in power then, there would have been another outcome. So big are the new contractions that have happened. Then the cabin building had not come towards Vassfaret – I think we can almost say that. So it has clear consequences. Then I have left one piece of paper that does not matter – but what is important is that we have to look at what the Riksrevision points to. It concerns the procedures followed, the reasoning used for exemptions from the legislation used by municipalities. That's some of the background for our one proposal. What we also see, which I would like to point out, is that the professional competence of the municipalities has been weakened in recent years. We had some years of these MIK positions, and I had hoped that something similar would come back again, that we got an evaluation of the professional qualifications in the natural environment of the municipalities. Then, of course, the government answers that we should have bigger municipalities, then much would have solved itself. Well, I would like to say that a combination of close municipalities, small municipalities and a little stronger professional filling from a county is not that stupid either.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e1118	A few comments, as the matter seems to go to its end. I hear repeatedly that professional advice is being overlooked. Thus, even if a professional advice or recommendation in an objection is not fully followed up, there may be other reasons why the professional council was not followed in that case. What's the whole point of dealing with these plan items in the case of exemptions and objections is that one should consider each other, and then there are many considerations that come in. It's important to bring it with you. So I notice that the debate here now contains at least two debates, perhaps even more when one came into the size of municipalities at the end, from the representative Nävra. There has been a lot of concern about the overall land policy and how it should be. It's an exciting debate. I have been rapporteur and have been in those conflicts – I mentioned it – and it can be demanding, and it should be a debate. But the reason we're not responding to this right now is that for the control committee, it's the report and the use of objections as an instrument we're discussing. That is why we do not respond to it in this case, but there are certainly good opportunities to come back to it. With that, I thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e1129	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e1145	Article 18 of the UN Declaration of Human Rights reads: «Everyone has the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion. This right includes the freedom to change religion or faith, and the freedom to express their religion or belief through teaching, practice, worship and rituals either alone or with others, and public or private.’ It is not just the declaration of human rights that confirms freedom of belief. It is enshrined in Article 18 of the United Nations Convention on Civil and Political Rights and in the Declaration on the Elimination of All Forms of Intolerance and Discrimination on the Basis of Religion or the Life View of 1981. It is also confirmed in a number of regional documents. Freedom of faith is a fundamental human right. It's a right we take for granted in Norway because we enjoy it every day without considering what could happen to us, no matter what we don't believe in or believe in, no matter what way we want to go about life. We take it for granted, because we're used to having an open debate about life's vision. We see it in social media, and we see it in the newspaper columns daily: atheists who challenge religious and religious who challenge atheists. Thank God we have it like this! The idea that we could be punished for a thought, for a belief, for simply asking ourselves or others a metaphysical question, a theological question, or for making theories, is completely unimaginable to us. It shouldn't be. Many people live under the reality that your thought, your faith, is something you can be punished for. 83 pst., and I'm repeating that number, because it's hard to relate to - 83 pst. the world’s population lives in countries where there are significant limitations to the exercise of religion. So stranger is freedom of belief for many that you can't even completely define what it is, what it will mean to have it, and at least not how you can fight for it. That means that the fight for freedom of belief is taking place on at least two fronts at the same time. It is both about building skills for residents in countries suffering from a lack of freedom of belief and that liberal democracies put pressure on other countries' human rights violations. International developments are worrying. According to Pew Research Center’s ninth annual freedom study, 2016 was a year with several restrictions on freedom of belief. The proportion of countries with very high levels of restrictions imposed by authorities rose from 25 p.p. to 28 pst. from 2015 to 2016. It's the highest level since 2013 and only 1 percentage point during the top year, if you can call it that, 2012, when the number was 29 pst. At the same time, civil actors can put pressure on freedom of religion and life. Individuals, communities, groups or organisations may threaten freedom of belief through threats, violence, harassment, attacks on houses of God, property or individuals belonging to religious and life views. Such acts are often unpunished because the authorities lack either the will or the ability to go after the culprits. Such a passive attitude rewards those in need and strengthens their social hostility. The proportion of countries with a high or very high degree of social hostility in religion is stable at 27 p.m. Overall, there were 83 countries, or 42 pst. by countries with high or very high restrictions, authority-based or civilised, against freedom of belief. In 2007 it was 29 pst. of the countries, and in 2015 it was 40 pst. of the countries. At the same time, the issue should also be addressed in an even wider context. We also see this from the Granavolden platform, where the government will also promote freedom of belief and life in development policy. Freedom of faith is linked to the goals of sustainability. Faith and life-synthesis minorities are over-represented among the world's poor, vulnerable to war and conflict, and they suffer from discrimination and oppressive policies. Several of the sustainability objectives can be linked to the issues of freedom of religion, and perhaps in particular the main priorities for Norway — education, gender equality, less inequality and peace and justice. The Government Platform announces that progress requirements should be linked to several fields, including: freedom of belief and life, in order to receive assistance. It is a policy that I wholeheartedly support, and I would like to hear the Minister for Foreign Affairs' reflections on what this will look like in practice. The government also says that it will come up with a strategy to ensure that minorities, including, among others, CSRs are taken into account in relevant bets. In Report. St. 24 for 2016–2017, Joint responsibility for the common future – Sustainability objectives and Norwegian development policy, the government decided to step up its efforts to protect religious minorities and set up a new support mechanism to mobilise international partners. This shows a government and a foreign minister who takes matters of freedom of worship seriously, and who has always shown commitment to this deeply important issue. In the context of what is on the government platform and in the Communication Joint Responsibility for the Common Future – can the Minister for Foreign Affairs tell how she intends to continue to work to improve the situation of oppressed religious and life views?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e1176	Let me first take the opportunity to thank the representative Heggelund for addressing this important issue. It is right, as the representative says, that the government has a great commitment to freedom of belief and life. It's over 80 pst today. of the world's population living in countries where freedom of belief and freedom of life is restricted, and in part it is very strong. That is why in recent years the government has also given a proper boost to freedom of belief and life. For 2018, estimates show that in excess of 80 million. kr was used to promote freedom of belief and life, and it comes in addition to other human rights work that is also associated with this – I'll get back to that a little bit. This includes work on the rights of religious minorities. The amount will increase slightly now in 2019, and in comparison, the corresponding amount in 2013 was 10 million. kr. Freedom of faith is rife, among other things. in the UN Convention on Civil and Political Rights, and belief means too many. That was also why last autumn I took the initiative of a national conference to disseminate knowledge and strengthen the interest of the Norwegian community in freedom of belief and freedom of life internationally. There was a great deal of excitement about the conference, and I feel that we were able to highlight many of the issues that the representative Heggelund also raises in his interpellation. We also know that the situation of freedom of belief and freedom of life is often a temperature measurer of the situation for other human rights as well. It is very serious that many groups in a number of countries experience discrimination, harassment and persecution because of their beliefs, to which Pew Research Center points in the study the representative refers. But persecution of religious minorities is not always just about religion. The situation can often be politically complex, and we see that in many contexts religion covers others and perhaps even more fundamental challenges. Examples here may be the fight for land rights or financial resources. Fear of minorities being too close to neighbouring countries and thus undermining political stability in the home country is also a factor we see in some countries. There are several actors who can therefore have a great interest in putting such conflicts into a religious context, in building up identity and creating a contrast between us and them. We know this too well from our own historical experience in Europe. Although we see challenges in this work, there are also opportunities, if we look for a broader approach to human rights. Keywords in this context may also include the construction of a state of law, the fight against impunity, evidence of abuses against religious minorities, and not least the contribution of actors to meeting and discussing measures to promote freedom of belief and freedom of life in their own country. Norway is – without going into detail – also involved in several dialogue initiatives in conflicts around the world that have just religious dialogue and understanding as one of its main themes. In order to promote freedom of belief and life internationally, we have several procedures: Firstly, we have the bilateral dialogue. In recent years, the government has taken up the situation of religious minorities at different levels with a wide range of countries. In this context, Egypt and Iran can be cited as examples. Secondly, as one of a few countries, Norway has its own special representative for freedom of belief and life in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, who contributes through its international network. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has also taken the initiative to set up local groups where our embassies take an active part. Thirdly, multilateral organisations are very central to our work. Thematics are a high priority, both in the UN, in the OSCE and in the Council of Europe. One of the mechanisms we use actively is the UPR of the Human Rights Council, that is, Universal Periodic Review, where all countries are heard every five years, and where freedom of belief and life and religious minorities are among the themes we often address and make recommendations on to other countries. The UN High Commissioner for Human Rights is one of Norway's most important partners, and we work closely on the work on the rights of religious minorities at country level. Fourthly, I would like to point out our close cooperation with both Norwegian and international civil society. One of the measures is financial support for civil society in the country concerned through the Norad grant scheme for strengthening the rights of religious and life-seeker minorities. The U.D. is actively involved in the dialogue with civil society and has instructed Norad to intensify its efforts. A number of Norwegian organisations are supported by this scheme for their work. In addition, direct from the U.D., a handful of key actors, both nationally and internationally, are working together. In this context, I would like to highlight the Minority Rights Group, which has special competence in the situation of religious minorities in the Middle East. I would also like to draw up the international parliamentary network, which is directly involved in the Storting, as well as in the Stephenus Alliance. All of these are now subject to multiannual framework agreements. Through our cooperation with American Freedom House, Norway contributes to providing direct support and protection to persecuted and vulnerable individuals and groups. The U.S. also allocates funds through the foreign stations, i.e. our embassies, so that they can contribute to the work of freedom of belief and life at the land level. Two examples of activity are Myanmar and Turkey. Norway is a small player who constantly needs to assess how we use resources, both human and economic, in order to obtain the best possible results. That is when the short answer to the representative Heggelund's question about how the government will continue to work to improve the situation in the area of freedom of belief and life. The long answer to the representative's question is to look at how best to link our work more closely to other priority efforts in the field of human rights and development. Let me illustrate it with a few examples: For many years, the U.D. has worked closely with the Centres for the Study of Holocaust and Life Vision Minorities, which are internationally recognised for their competence in antisemitism. In recent years, the U.D. has worked with the Centre to systematically draw on this competence in international work to strengthen the rights of religious minorities and prevent genocide. In the area of freedom of expression, we have had close and good cooperation with International Media Support for a number of years. At the turn of the year between 2018 and 2019, we entered into an additional agreement with the organisation on measures to give religious minorities greater space in the media. Finally, I would like to mention the opportunities that lie in the great efforts of development policy, such as health and education. On the basis of the UN's sustainability targets, we are working intently to reach the most marginalised, those with the greatest risk of falling outside. This applies not least to religious minorities. We now support a Danish-Norwegian work where the Norwegian Stefanusallian is a central partner. Later this month, this project brings together international experts in Oslo to discuss measures to ensure that both women’s rights and freedom of belief and life are safeguarded in the work on global education. Religious minorities are often very vulnerable, not least in conflict areas. We need political solutions to the conflicts, which can counteract increasing fragmentation along sectarian dividing lines. We see countless examples of Christians being subjected to harassment, discrimination, and abuse. The attacks on Sri Lanka in the Passover illustrate this in all its atrocities. We hear dramatic stories about the situation of many Middle East minorities. For a period there was a series of attacks on Christians in Egypt, and before that in Iraq. When Nadia Murad received the Nobel Peace Prize in 2019, it again directed the world’s attention to the inhuman suffering of the Jesuiti people. Attacks against Ahmadiyya Muslims in Pakistan, discrimination against Sunni Muslims in Iran and Shia Muslims in Bahrain are all too often. The treatment of the Bahaians in Iran can also be added to this far too long list, and not least the recent attack on Muslims in New Zealand. However, ranking which minorities are most vulnerable is not constructive. Discrimination and violence based on religion are widespread in many parts of the world and in many countries. On issues related to freedom of belief and freedom of life and the vulnerability of religious minorities, there should never be any doubt as to where Norway stands. The work on freedom of belief and freedom of life is about protecting fundamental human rights. Taking care of marginalised groups from different denominations will always be a priority for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e1224	I would like to thank you for a very good answer. I am pleased that the government has both clearly prioritised this area and will prioritise it in the future. I think it was particularly interesting to hear what the Council of State said about civil society, i.e. the religious and secular communities, which often do not have the necessary administrative and bureaucratic muscles to handle, for example. assistance money and how it is then possible to further involve them in the development process, since they are, after all, so central players. What I'm asking is whether the Council of States could say a little more about how she feels that this issue is on the agenda of other countries with freedom of religion, and how to involve more countries in this work. As I said, from the study to the Pew Research Center, there have been several countries that have more restrictions on freedom of belief. Could you say a little about how other countries with freedom of faith give priority to this work? At the same time, we also see that some movements, external right-wing movements, also use this in democratic societies with a high or full degree of freedom of religion – using religion as a means of political pressure, as a possible threat to the society in which we live. So if the council could also reflect a little bit on it, I would be very happy about it. Thank you, of course, for the answer so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e1235	The President will only stress that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is to be addressed as Minister for Foreign Affairs. It might be tile-picking, but the right one should be right.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e1240	I'll find room in my heart to forgive the representative Heggelund for this. These are important issues that the representative Heggelund addresses in his response. I would like to grasp what he said related to the experience of how this is on the agenda in other countries with freedom of belief. The experience we've had in recent years is that in order to get through both criticism and cooperation in this area, we depend on forming broader alliances than we might have been used to before. To put it another way: if only Christian, Western countries promote criticism, it has little impact. If, on the other hand, we try to reach a wider extent, we ally with countries that we do not always ally with otherwise, or where we see that both religion and culture are different, then the possibility of passing through to some countries is also greater. We have gained that experience in many areas of human rights work. I think it's a very important experience, because in some contexts religious minorities also experience greater risk and danger if they are only linked to Western support. A lot of the work we do on fundamental human rights is about two things. One is not to do harm, that is, not to expose human rights champions or marginalized groups to greater danger and risk in the way we act, and the other is to achieve results. Then we have to use different tools, and among those tools is what I'm saying is a pragmatic and flexible approach to how we build alliances to achieve. I feel that the question is more on the agenda many places now than it was just five years ago. On the one hand, I think this is related to the fact that many countries see how close the relationship is also between the general development of a country and the granting of freedom of belief and freedom of life on the very basic conditions established by human rights conventions. Then I also think that from many other countries it is more focused on it now than before, and that it helps to raise awareness of it, and that more countries with strong restrictions on freedom of belief and life feel that it is more stressful than it has been before. Now I want to hurry to add that it's not the picture everywhere. In some contexts, and perhaps in countries that are close both geographically and culturally, we also see the opposite situation, that this kind of criticism does not contribute to a changed pattern of behaviour, but rather on the contrary that criticism is possible to bear and deal with for some countries in a way that we may not have seen before. So the picture is multi-faceted, but I still think it's a very important issue the representative addresses.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e1255	Let me first thank the representative Heggelund for the interpellation and the Minister for Foreign Affairs for her positive reply. The Minister for Foreign Affairs pointed out that there has been a development — a positive development — in several countries over the past five years, and that is very good. It is also very good that in recent years Norway has strengthened its efforts in connection with Article 18 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which establishes the freedom of thought, conscience and religion. The Christian People's Party has, through a series of years, taken initiatives to strengthen the protection of the freedom of faith, the freedom to choose for itself a view of life, to change faith and religion, or to express threat in practice. It's a fight that we have to fight on multiple fronts. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has its own minority project, which is a good platform for Norwegian involvement. Freedom of movement for men and women is part of Norway's political dialogue with individual countries, among others. in the Middle East. Furthermore, this is an issue that is regularly raised in the United Nations, and protection of religious minorities is given increasing place in humanitarian aid. This is a good example, but they are also just examples. In the last few years, we have seen abominable assaults against others threatening. The Islamic extremist organisation ISIL is setting up a terrorist regime in what they themselves call the Islamic State. Those who had a different faith were persecuted and killed. ISIL denied not only all human beings its equivalency, but also the fundamental principle of democracy, international human rights and the rule of law. But it is wrong to believe that serious violations against religious minorities only took place in ISIL-controlled areas in Iraq and Syria. The well-known Pew Research Center has produced annual reports on how the threat freedom is violated. Their last report, to which we have referred earlier in the debate, states that there are strong, state restrictions on the freedom of faith in 55 of the world's 198 countries, and there are 80 pst. of the population of the world cage. In 54 countries, there was a significant assault on other threats from non-governmental communities. When the state does not stop such an attack, a emergence of elective attacks against people with a different way of life, simply killing by another threatening. Nationalistic agitation has increased and is used to incite people to abuse religious minorities. The number of countries where various religious groups became bullied and harassed has increased shows this report. When you look at the 25 most populous states in the world, it is Egypt, Russia, India, Indonesia and Turkey that generally have the highest level of religious restrictions. China has the most state restrictions, while India has the highest level of abuse by social groups. These are two of the world's most populous states, so the victims are many. Terrorism is an important indicator and a good indicator of where there is a risk to human rights also more generally. Freedom of thought, freedom of faith and freedom of expression are decisive to ensure that individuals are able to feel free, and those of the populace are also required to take an active part in that work. For this reason, it is important that one of the last few years has been committed to building an international network of parliamentarians who are now gaining a basic and practical knowledge of how to ensure better protection of the freedom of the right to freedom of speech in our countries and internationally. Norway has played an important role in the construction of this network that we are now seeing emerging. The defence of central human rights is important in the Norwegian Foreign Service, and I would like to right more about how the Minister of Foreign Affairs will ensure that diplomats and bureaucrats in the foreign services have sufficient knowledge and understanding of religious and religious freedom. Then, finally, I will highlight civil society, where there are many organizations that are making an important effort for freedom of thought, trust and expression. They range from organisations with a broad focus, such as Amnesty International and the Helsinki Committee, to organisations working specifically with the freedom of faith, such as Open Doors and the Stephen Alliance. We need an interaction between several actors in order to succeed and to ensure that both small and large take responsibility, not only take short-term consideration and let interest stand in the way of a principled work for human rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e1274	I would like to start by thanking Mr Heggelund for the interpellation and the Minister for Foreign Affairs for his good answers and perspectives in a very demanding and important field of action. At the same time, I want to challenge the Council of State on some very specific questions. A short time ago it was known that the Christian mother of two children Asia Bibi from Pakistan, who was released from blasphemy last year after eight years in prison with a death sentence, has now left the country and has arrived Canada. She had to leave her home country because of the violent riots after liberation. Extremists have demanded her hang and threatened the judges in the matter of life. Asia Bibis two daughters have been in Canada for months waiting for their mother. The case has created huge waves in Pakistan. Both Governor Salmaan Taseer and Christian Minister of Minority Shahbaz Bhatti were killed by extremists in 2011, after defending Asia Bibi and criticising the country's blasphemy laws. There are millions of people who are discriminated against, harassed, discriminated against and persecuted because of their religion or belief or lack of such. According to the Pew Research Center, 83 pst live. of the world's population in countries with great or very high religious restrictions. Recently, the BBC mentioned a new British report, ordered by Secretary of State Jeremy Hunt, which concludes that the persecution of Christians in some parts of the world is approaching what can be described as genocide. The report warns that Christianity is actually in danger of being eradicated from parts of the Middle East, and pointed specifically to Iraq and the Palestinian self-government areas. There are many Asia Bibis who live in fear of their own lives because of faith. Her story shows that it is useful to raise the situation to persecuted Christians higher on the agenda. I would therefore challenge the Minister for Foreign Affairs to say something concrete about how Norway's attitude towards freedom of belief and persecuted minorities is met and followed up by the bodies of which Norway is part. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has already commented on this, but I would like her to elaborate on the answer and say a little bit about what strategies Norway chooses in meetings with other countries in the bodies of which we are part. Secondly, how will Norway work to help individuals like Asia Bibi find a safe place to live where religion does not qualify to be persecuted and threatened?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e1291	We in the Christian People's Party hold freedom of belief high. It's a fundamental value for which it's important to protect. In my speaking time here today, I want to tell another woman's story, and that's what I've been given her permission to do in this important matter. Her history shows us that numbers and statistics, as the representative Heggelund refers to, are actually real people – people in large, large numbers. I read: "My name is Gulnar, and I am uighur. I grew up northwest of China, by the city of Ghulja, in the Uighur region. The area is located in the Xinjiang region, which is the area where there is currently up against one million people from ethnic minorities who are detained in detention camps without charge or judgment. This area was already heavily controlled by China when I grew up. I remember especially when China took control of the schoolwork. Children down to kindergarten age were required to have new policy guidelines on changing languages from Uighur to Chinese. It was forbidden to speak Uighur even in private homes. It was also collected and recorded DNA samples from all the uighurs. Not long afterwards, there was a ban on being a Muslim. These prohibitions were enforced by groupings, both military and civilian, which were established in all from public institutions to private affiliates. Social control was enormous. I remember that several of my fellow students at the university could suddenly disappear. We heard afterwards that they were arrested. I was a human being in a country that deprived me of all my rights. I was forced to speak Chinese, I couldn't wear hijab, I couldn't pray, I couldn't fast, people around me suddenly disappeared, and I was monitored in the dorm I lived in. I had no protection, no protection. I was afraid." This woman was here in Stortinget and spoke under the direction of the Women's Day. She thanks that day the Norwegian woman she met at the Norwegian Embassy in Beijing for her life. I therefore support the representative Heggelund's question about how the government will continue to work to improve the situation for, among other things. uighurs who experience harassment on the basis of their faith.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e1309	I would like to thank you for a good and important debate and for the foreign minister's answer. I would also like to thank the representatives of Gleditsch Lossius, Storehaug and Gruvan for their very good contribution to this debate. On these around 40 minutes, I believe that we have really developed the great complexity of this issue, both of how freedom of belief and life is a temperature measure of the situation of other rights, and of the fact that persecution is not always about religion or non-faith, but that it can be used and covered – as the foreign minister said – for example. fight for land rights and fear of undermining the regime that governs the country. That is why I am very grateful for the Foreign Minister's response to how many fronts you are working on to improve freedom of faith: bilaterally, through cooperation with other countries with a high degree of freedom of belief, by seeking new alliances, and not least through cooperation with multilateral organisations. This is an important work that needs to be prioritised. The report from the Pew Research Center, which has been referred to many times during this debate, also shows how this is urgent for all people who live with either authority-based or civil restrictions on their freedom of belief and life. I would like to say a thousand heartfelt thanks for the debate we have had.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e1323	I would also like to thank you for a good debate and, not least, for the insightful contributions that have been made by the representatives of the big business, I very much appreciate that. I will try to answer some of the questions that came in a very short time. Tore Storehaug asked how we work to ensure that diplomats and bureaucrats have enough knowledge and information. We have our own course at the U.D. Center of Competence dealing with the work of religious minorities. We have also developed our own guide that we use both in the embassies and throughout the foreign service to make this work the best possible. At the same time, I believe it is important to recognise the great understanding of the context and competence of our embassies and outposts, and that for us is a very important piece in the work we do. Not least, the embassies, through both the earmarked means they get to do this work, and the partnerships they make in the different countries, are very good work done for religious minorities and for freedom of belief and life. As for the question from the representative Gruvan about strategies, I was a little into it in my introduction as well. I believe that through the work we do at many levels – bilaterally, multilaterally through partnerships we have with different countries, and not least the partnership we have with civil society, which is extremely important in this context – we are helping to help those who are particularly vulnerable in some countries. We also contribute financially to schemes that help individuals who are persecuted for various reasons. That is what we believe to be an important work. Finally, the questions that came from the representative Gleditsch Lossius: As the representative may remember, in March China we had to consult the Human Rights Council. Norway was among the countries that made recommendations, and one of the recommendations we made was just about the situation in Xinjiang and the possibility and recommendation of getting rid of observers who can see the whole picture. This was also one of the issues that was on the agenda for the October state visit — the fact that in many areas Chinese society is moving in a positive direction, especially in terms of poverty reduction, etc., but that we see more challenges in relation to the issue of religious minorities. It's also a subject that we've addressed in the U.N. Human Rights Council in the past, and it's a subject we're also following.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e1334	The debate on substance is closed. So 4 is done. The President proposes that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 5-7 is treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e1376	No one has asked to speak on the matter. 5–7.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e1388	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e1397	In the course of the debate, Ms Sandberg put forward two proposals on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to start work as soon as possible on a new living conditions survey for students at universities, colleges and colleges in order to ensure a good and up-to-date data base on, among other things, the living conditions, the economy and housing situation of students.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a survey of the student’s learning environment at universities, colleges and colleges and to ask for this work to be seen in connection with the work of new university and university law.’ Alternatives are proposed between these proposals and the Committee's position. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e1432	All in all, seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Jorodd Asphjell on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Jorodd Asphjell on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No 3, from Marit Knutsdatter Strand on behalf of the Center Party the proposals No 4-7, from Mona Fagerås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4-7, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The size requires the government to adjust the absence limit for undocumented absence in such a way as to reduce the unfortunate consequences of the absence limit, e.g. by increasing the principal's discretionary room.» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government requests parental authority to certify absences and, in addition, to ensure that the certification of absences is a task which can be entrusted to health care professionals.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that secondary schools have the possibility to set up local flexible day-to-day school schemes where this is desirable by the school and where it does not cause major disadvantages.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The size of the government will make necessary changes to the rules or interpretation of the rules on absenteeism, so that participation in major events and political strikes is covered by the exemption rule on political work, if it can be demonstrated by a political organisation or auxiliary organisation or otherwise it is likely that the students have participated.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e1482	There is a vote on proposal No. Three, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to amend the training law so that self-announcement by parents/constituters, or qualified students, is recognised as valid evidence of absence in case of illness and other welfare grounds for up to three days.’ The Socialist Left and Red have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e1499	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the possibility of health care providers being granted the right to certify absences at school.’ The Socialist Left and Red have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e1525	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size calls on the government to come back to the Storting as soon as possible, explaining how to follow up the evaluation report ‘Death angle of the absenteeism’, and proposing measures to ensure, in the short and long term, those students who are at increased risk of falling away’. [[Fafo 2018:41]] Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e1546	During the debate Arne Nävra put forward two proposals on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to review plans where national and significant regional interests are concerned and to review exemptions from the last two years in order to obtain an overview of whether important interests have been lost.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government requests the introduction of land accounting requirements to monitor the total impact of bit-by-bit development on natural diversity and climate.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e1582	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e1591	Case No. 5–7 are the second time legal proceedings and concern legislative acts 56–58. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-21.ana.ud440e1616	As regards the procedure for referral 356: Under the fifth paragraph of Section 38 of the Rules of Procedure, proposals which have been finally decided may not be brought back or reopened in the same Grand total session. As a result of the vote on proposal No. 7 from the Socialist Left in Case No. 2 just now can not propose No. 2 in document 8:153 S is taken during treatment. Is there any objection to that? - That's not what it looks like. The President shall then refer to the following: Proposal No. 2 is proposed to be rejected in accordance with point (e) of the second paragraph of Article 39 of the Rules of Procedure. Proposal No. 1 is proposed to the Education and Research Committee. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
