ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e28	A number of permit applications are available: from representatives Else-May Botten Norderhus, Jonny Finstad and Martin Henriksen from 3 June to 14 June – all to participate in strategic crisis management courses at the Swedish Defence College on the leave of the representative of Mr Haarek Riveres from 31 May to 3 June, on behalf of Mr Trond Helleland from 3 June and on behalf of Mr Lene Westgaard-Halle from 3 June, on the leave of the representative of Mr Liv Signe Navarsette from 3 June, on the leave of the representative of Mr Nils Kristen Sandtrøen from 3 June and on behalf of the Group of the Progressive Democrats on the leave of the representative Mr Christian Tybring-Gjedde from 3 June – all to take part in the plenary session of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Bratislava, Slovakia by the Group of the Right, on Monday 3 June, to take part in the meeting of the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly in Paris, by the Group of the Party of European Socialists on welfare leave of Mr Dagfinn Henrik Olsen Monday 3 June from the Workers' Group on the Welfare Permit of the Representative of Ingvild Kjerkol for the period from 3 June to 7 June from the Workers' Group on the welfare leave of the representative of the Arild Grande from 3 June to 7 June by Kari Elisabeth Kaski, on parental leave from 3 June onwards and out of the Spring Session of Stortinge. These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of Oslo, Olivia Corso Salles, there is an application for an exemption from meeting in Stortinget under the authority of the representative Kari Elisabeth Kaski, on account of his or her parental leave. From the first alternates of the Nord-Trøndelag and Østfold counties respectively, Jorid Juliusus Nordmelan and Monica Carmen Gåsvatn, there are applications for waivers to meet in the Stortinget on Monday 3 June, under the representatives of Ingvild Kjerkol and Ingerd Schous leaveions respectively, for welfare reasons. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Akershus County: Anne Kristine Linnestad 3 June For the Province of Buskerud: Isselin Haugo 3 June For Hedmark County: Tone Merete Sønsterud 3 June For More and Romesdal counties: Tove-Lise Square 3.-14. June For the Nordic counties: Elizabeth Åsjord Sire 3–14. June 3 and Grethe Andersen 3 June For Oslo: Solveig Skauvoll Foss June 3rd – out spring session and Geir Hågen Karlsen June 3rd For Sogn and Fjordane counties: Steinar Ness June 3 For the counties of Troms: Kari-Anne Opsal 3-14. June For Nord-Trøndelag: Gaute Børstad Skjervø 3–7. June, Jorid Juliusus Nordmelan 4–7. June and May Britt Lagesen June 3 For the Vestfold County: Renate Silver 3 June For Eastfold County: Thor Edquist 3 June
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e204	The representative, Kjersti Toppe, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e209	I would like to make a proposal on behalf of Mr Willfred Nordlund, Mr Siv Mossleth and myself to ‘investigate two hospitals with fully-fledged emergency functions in Helgeland’.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e214	The representative, Freddy André Øvstegård, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e219	I am delighted to make a proposal on behalf of the big business representatives Kari Elisabeth Kaski, Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes, Lars Haltbrecken, Arne Nävra and myself on fair taxation of international companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e224	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e240	The Stortinget received on Monday a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State, Siv Jensen, Jon Georg Dale and Harald T. Nesvik will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e249	I congratulate the Minister of Finance on the day and want to ask her a question. Building infrastructure, pursuing a climate policy, requires courageous decisions, and it requires good governance. Norway doesn't have it today. We have a great deal of uncertainty about an important component of this, namely how we should finance it. From the government it comes out one day, as the other day is shot down by others. Today in Political Quarter, we heard two representatives of the government parties as guarantors against each other's policies. The Minister of Finance has announced a crisis meeting on this matter in the government. It's unclear what comes out of it. So we have a government that acts like the paralysis of action in this important area. In the case of tolls, the Labour Party has said the following: We want to replace tolls with a more accurate and fair system of road pricing. We want the state to take a greater share of collective development in the big cities. We want the electric cars to gradually start contributing to the fissure layer. We want to review the national transport plan in order to control costs. And we want a better distribution policy with commuter deductions, and other expenses have to go down for ordinary families. What is happening now is that there is a record in the toll collection with the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Transport of the Progress Party. In Stortingen yesterday, three major road projects, partly financed by tolls, totaled 15 billion. kr – proposed and supported by the Progress Party. We need clarity in what the government thinks about these unclear plays. That's why I have three questions, which I really want the Minister of Finance to answer yes or no to: Is it relevant for the government to follow the National Meeting of the Progress Party and to spend considerable money from our children's pension funds to reduce tolls? Is it up to the government to change the electric car benefits now, as the fiscal figure in the Progress Party suggests? And could it be relevant, if tolls are important, to establish a more fair and accurate road pricing system?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e262	First, let me thank you for the congratulations. In fact, it is not the day before Saturday, so it indicates that there is not everything you read in the newspaper that is true – but thanks for the congratulations just as fully, and thank you for the question. There's a big and important social debate going on in these days about toll financing, and I understand that, because a lot of drivers now feel that the burden on them is getting too heavy, and that they are involved in paying for things that really aren't about the way they're going. It is then right to take that debate seriously, and I believe that the government does – simply because we have done a job to reduce the toll burden completely systematically over the years we have been in government. We've been through the policy we've been pursuing in recent years, saving the drivers for almost 4 billion. kr. That's 4 billion. kr for which the drivers would not be saved if the working party and the handling of the centre party had been followed. For example, the Labour Party and the Centre Party have: opposed the proposal for both an interest-rate compensation scheme and a toll reform. I record that what many parties are now trying to do is rebelling against their own policies – not against the policies of the government. The government has systematically contributed to reducing the load on the drivers. We've increased the traffic budget by 75 pst. in the time we have been in government, and I can confirm that the electric car policy of the government is firm in this period – and it works. This leads to a decline in the tax revenue of the state fund because we stimulate the drivers through positive tools to buy new and emittable cars. This means that the car fleet will be renewed. That makes the emissions go down. So it's part of the government's policy. I have registered that the Workers' Party is in charge of a road pricing system. It is really nothing but putting a different name on it or moving the taximeter right into the car. It doesn't solve the toll load that people experience. I think we have to be concerned about reducing the burden on people – not giving it a different name.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e273	Right-wing fiscal figurer wants a settlement on road pricing. The drivers should be involved and pay for roads, the drivers should be involved and pay for better collective services and bicycle offers in the major cities, but it can be made more accurate and fairer. My question to the Minister of Finance is then – and she has the big money: Can this national transport plan be implemented without the drivers being involved and paying? The projects that the Minister of Transport is now presenting to the Stortinget – in the billion class – and for which the Progress Party is there, have tolls inside as a component. So let's get it clear from the government: is it time to implement this transport plan with its projects – at the latest yesterday E6 Moelv–Øyer, E6 Ulsberg–Melhus, E18 Langangen–Dørdal – on a total of 15.6 billion. kr in tolls, proposed supported by the Progress Party? Is it relevant to do this without tolls?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e280	First, the claim of the agreement on road pricing. The government has said that we should continue these benefits in this period. So there's been a discussion about what to do in the next big time period. What the government has said is that we should go through the future car tax system to ensure that it becomes sustainable over time. Then there's a lot of different relationships you have to look at. How will the drivers be charged for a time to come when the means we now have are not equally accurate? That investigation is well under way by the government. With regard to the realisation of NTP, it is probably more close to addressing the questions to the Minister of Transport, who is also here. But I can assure you that our ambitions to continue building good infrastructure across the country are firm. It's one of the most important demands we're facing from a whole Norwegian business community. No matter where in the country we travel, it's about good infrastructure, which allows business to get their goods out to markets as quickly and as reasonably as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e289	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e294	We're going to ask the Minister of Transport, but it's relevant to ask the Minister of Finance, because her party's national meeting wants to spend 100 billion dollars. NOK of the pension fund, the money of our children, to finance this. That is relevant to the Minister of Finance. Her fiscal figure would cancel the electric car benefits next year and balance it up against the toll payment. That's what the Minister of Finance has just killed – that's when it's cleaned up. This with road pricing opens up the Minister of Finance – I hear – now that you can look at it in a broader review. She confirms that, in order to implement projects, the drivers shall be included and paid. It should be made more fair. Well, why wait two years to figure out a system that will be more accurate? Can't we figure it out now, so that it can be implemented? It takes work to do this. But then I can get a response from the Minister of Finance: Is it a topical issue to drop collection from the drivers and replace it with spending money from the pension fund, as her party has agreed?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e303	We're already doing it, we're already spending a lot of money on the state budget to finance infrastructure construction in Norway. So that's how the picture flipped. When the Workers' Party was last put in government, they demanded significantly more in the taxes and tolls from the drivers than what was recovered in the form of road construction and infrastructure. Now that's the picture flipped. We now charge less on car charges and tolls in relation to what we pay back. The financing of the State budget has increased by 75 pst. It's because it's important to invest in infrastructure. And no, I didn't open now to introduce a road pricing system. What I said was that the government has said on the platform that we are going to go through the entire car tax system to see how it can be more sustainable in the future. And that's not how we sit and wait. We have systematically – throughout our time in government – done what we can to reduce the toll burden on the population. The Workers' Party has been against this. That's what the Center Party has been against. I think it's touching that lots of people who have had a warm commitment to tolls all the time, now trying to pretend they don't have it anymore.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e312	Jonas Gahr Støre – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e317	The reality is that toll collection records are set. And the fact that there is now a great deal of uncertainty about urban environment packages in the north and in the south is a topic that the Minister of Finance and the Government should take most seriously, both because it is a question of how we finance absolutely necessary projects, both for road, for public transport and not least for the environment, so that our kids do not get sick of growing up in cities, and that we get a course on how to implement infrastructure development in Norway and finance it properly. This just confirms that there is a government that draws in different directions about how we're going to meet the unrest that people are experiencing, that they have expenses, as well as everything else that gets expensive in everyday life. There's a different direction of government. My last question concerns these urban packages that are now being scrapped around the country: How does the Minister of Finance see that the government is going to take action to get it back on the rails? They are a party to these agreements.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e327	First of all, the government does not draw in different directions. The government's policy is firm, and it is implemented systematically with the aim of minimising the burden on the drivers, while at the same time building the most possible infrastructure. And once again, that's why we've increased our travel budget by 75 pst. over these years – over the State budget. That's why we have now reversed the burden on the drivers, that they pay less in relation to what they get back, in contrast to what was the situation when the Workers' Party last joined the government. The uncertainty about the urban packages I think it is natural to ask the Minister for Transport about, but what I can say is that the state contribution to these packages is quite large. Then it's up to local politicians how to finance their share of it. In many places, a significant burden has been placed on drivers rather than on self-financing. And the fact that local politicians are now taking that fight, I think it's fine, because there's not one project that passes this room without a local policy decision on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e334	Severe Myrli - to the next follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e339	The Minister for Transport will then be asked about the same topic. We heard at the start of the meeting that some of the staging representatives were to participate in the strategic crisis management course. It might be an idea to open up that also government members can join the same course. The Minister of Finance said that the Labour Party is in charge of road pricing. Yes, that's right, and the last time we discussed road pricing with the Minister of Transport here in the hall, he said that it is not appropriate to discuss road pricing. After that, the Left has been out playing out on road pricing, the Right has been strong and clear – even took part in a debate in the NRK on Monday with the Right's fiscal spokesman, strong and clear, even inviting a compromise on road pricing – and the Christian People's Party has even promoted proposals in the Stortinget on road pricing. We have to be clear: what does the government think about solving road pricing?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e350	We follow up the decisions of the Stortinget here, but the Labour Party's attempt is now a total derailment of the debate common people took part in, namely a discussion about the level of tolls has been too high in the largest cities. The working party must try to make it a discussion of another way to charge the money, but it is not primarily the discussion of how to collect the money, which means that there are large protests in some of the urban areas out there; it is that the toll level is too high. The attempt of the working party to respond to that problem is a complete derailment of the debate. What needs to be is cost reductions in the projects; it's dimensionalizing the packages so that one actually doesn't take more in tolls than it's locally accepted for. That is the main problem in these urban areas, which is the main problem for several other projects, and that is why we have implemented reforms in the toll sector: to bring down the tolls. The Labour Party's attempt to make this a road pricing debate is a complete derailment from the debate in which ordinary people participate.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e355	Severe Myrli – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e360	Now it is not the Workers' Party that has started this debate; it seems to me that I have had a fire with completely different forces, but of course we are participating in it, and road pricing is one of the elements, to which party leader Gahr Støre also referred in his post. But I had a simple question. The idea of the oral question procedure is that the representatives of the government ask questions, and that the members of the government respond – preferably to what they are asked about. And my question was simple and straightforward: is it now, after the performances we've seen from the Left and Right, relevant to the government to investigate road pricing?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e367	The Minister of Finance has also done well for this several times. We are looking at changes in the total car charge system to get a resilient system after 2025. The biggest decision has been made – and I confirm that we are following it. If there are other technological solutions that make it cheaper to charge the money we pay today in the toll stations, we'll of course look at it. But what the Workers' Party actively advocates is moving today's toll stations into the private car to people. I think that's a bad idea. I don't think there's going to be any less payment for the car drivers because the taximeter is inside the car instead of outside, and that's what the basic challenge common people experience in the political discussion. This means that the answer to the question from Sverre Myrli is as it was before: we follow up the decisions that the Stortinget has made. But if you're going to answer the challenge common people experience, the discussion the Labour Party is trying to lead there is a complete derailment from the reality of ordinary people.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e372	Severe Myrli – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e377	There's no derailment. Left wants road pricing, Right wants road pricing, Christian People's Party wants road pricing, Workers' Party wants road pricing, SV wants road pricing – a large majority in Stortinget wants road pricing, but the government will not investigate it. The Minister of Transport will get another question, which is in the same lease, from me. A new road is now being built in Løten and Elverum, rv. 3 and Rv. 25-digit number That road gets cheaper than assumed, and that's very good. The problem is that the savings on the road take the state on its share, while the tolls are fixed. So it gets cheaper for the state, while the drivers have to pay just as much in tolls as the road project was calculated before saving. That means for rv. 3 and Rv. 25 in the Løten and Elverum, the toll ratio can reach 90 pst.Oh, my God! My question is, is there no limit to this government as to how high the toll percentage can be?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e384	It's quite right, as the representative Myrli no card did, that all parties, except the Advance Party, will have road pricing. We want less tolls. I think I'm illustrating what's the main difference between the Progress Party and any other party when it comes to this. We have realised and accepted that we did not win all the battles when we negotiated this in the work on the government platform. But we've got the tolls down, because we were busy doing the reform, when we made the compensation system, when we increased the state part in a series of projects, from what the Labour Party and the Center Party in their time suggested that the toll tax would be for the Billistan. In the area by area we have delivered. To the question of rv. 3 and Rv. 25: I've said that we don't know the ultimate final cost of that project. I have also said that when we know him, in that project we will make concrete assessments as to whether the Progress Party's new breakthrough in the Granavolden Platform for Toll Compensation Scheme can also be used in that project to reduce the toll tax. This has been clarified before, there is nothing new here.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e391	Social violence Vedum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e397	Minister of Finance Siv Jensen is the finance minister in Norwegian history who has included most of the fees. In one year she increased the level of Norwegian fuel taxes more than what happened over eight red-green years, Erna Solberg said. She's cut the commuter deductions, she's had a very focused policy to increase the fees for people most. What do we see in the revised national budget? Siv Jensen and the Promskrittspartiet are out and boasting that they have presented a toll package of 200 million. kr. That's the boast side, but what's the reality? Well, that's increasing the toll load by 430 million. kr first through the OPS project mentioned in place, rv. 3 and Rv. 25 and E39 on Rock. So you take in 430 million. kr, which was once a government grant, and then you give 200 million. kr back and boast of it. The truth is that if the state budget that was last autumn had remained standing, there would have been less toll than in the revised national budget that Siv Jensen has just presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e404	I'm not quite sure what was the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e409	Social violence Vedum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e414	What is illustrative for the Progress Party in the government is that in terms of fees and tolls, they say one thing, but when it comes to the piece, they do something quite different. In the case of car charges, a normal driver's list feels that there are record high fuel charges. Those who are commuters experience that they have never had any worse commuting deductions before. In the case of tolls, a higher level of tolls has never been experienced before. Then comes the kind of showy packages that the government did in connection with the Progress Party national meeting, but when it comes to the piece and you look at the revised national budget, the toll goes up, and there is a higher level of toll after the revised national budget than it was before the revised national budget. When shall the Party of Advancement proceed from word and self-crust to action in respect of tolls, commuters and level of charges? Most in Norway have experienced that it has become more demanding, not better.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e423	We have gone from word to action throughout our time in government. We have systematically worked to reduce the toll burden on the population, against the votes of the Center Party. The centre party has opposed the interest compensation scheme, they have opposed the toll reform, they have opposed most of the measures that this government has taken to reduce the burden on people. It doesn't help that Battle violence Vedum stands shaking his head, because it's a fact. This government has also – systematically – reduced the total car charges. They've gone down at the base of 2 billion. kr. It means less in car charges for people most, no more. It is a development that we now see intensifying because the measures we have taken in the area of car taxes work. When I submitted a revised budget 14 days ago, we adjusted the tax revenue by 3 billion. kr, e.g. because the conversion we have done with the car tax system works. Now people buy more low- and zero-emission cars, and the tax revenue of the state goes down, not up.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e430	Social violence Vedum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e435	Here again one sees that the State Council and Progress Party leader Siv Jensen do not want to answer the specific questions, because she knows that the answer is quite different from what she gives the impression. What has happened in the revised national budget? Has the number of toll millions entering the treasury increased, or has it fallen? In fact, they've gone up by 230. The government has managed to build some road projects cheaper – those who work there have made it cheaper – and then they have deducted that money, 430 million. NOK, into the treasury and given 200 million. kr back. And then you brag about it. That's what makes the Progress Party fall so much into disintegration. You see that they say one thing and do something completely different. It is not that the drivers around Norway have had a better everyday life, many have had worse. They have received higher charges, lower commuter deductions and higher toll burden. The real question is: is it true, as it says in the revised national budget, that the government has brought in 430 million? NOK and given 200 million. kr back – and boast of it?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e442	That question was just answered by the Minister for Transport on how to get savings coming in the form of road construction back to the drivers rather than to the state treasury. We have achieved this through the Granavolden platform, and we have plans to realize that. I answered the question, we have systematically worked to reduce the burden on the drivers. It's been one of the most important ambitions of the Advance Party when we've negotiated government platforms, and that's some of what we've delivered on in this hall, in stark contrast to what the Center Party stands for. I have to say I think it's quite special. The centre party has systematically been a hot defender of any toll project in this room, the Progress Party has systematically worked to reduce costs. It's a fact. When the centre party is against all measures that contribute to reducing the toll burden, it does not believe that the centre party is now trying to create an idea of the opposite. This just shows that the uprising that is among the people out there is real. It should start to take the Senter Party seriously – and do something with your own policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e449	Arne Nävra – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e454	The finance minister may be standing — or the toll queen, as she has also been called now. It's like giant motorway projects suck money out of the same wallets as the environmental bombs in the cities. But there are no questions here, there are sacred cows for the government. In the government's own 2015 national road investigation, the trade union believed that good two- and three-field roads held in many, many cases, but it did not hold for the government. They set up their own motorway investigation, their own highway plan. They had to have 120 km/h, it didn't last 80 to 90 km/h, etc. This led to costs being increased by 459 billion. NOK by 2050. We see enormous expenditure on the E39, the E18 West Corridor, etc. It may well be that there will be NOK 30 000 to NOK 40000 for a commuter from Asker or Drammen in against Oslo when this is done. Does the Council of State regret its position, or does she want to reconsider?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e461	The question should have been asked strictly to the Minister for Transport, but I will allow myself to give a small answer anyway. This government, as I said, has been busy building a well-functioning infrastructure across the country. There is nowhere I hear a cry that you should reduce the standard, safety, the quality of Norwegian roads, rather the opposite. It is an honest matter that SV now believes that we should no longer build a motorway anymore. We believe that we should continue and keep the pressure on building infrastructure in Norway. Then we established the company New roads, just to find new ways to do this that could benefit the drivers -- build faster, cheaper and better than you did before. What did the opposition say? It was thought to be a very bad idea, it was a new bureaucratic measure – but it has been a success. This is probably an example of the fact that there has been a lot of good policy in favour of drivers – against SV's votes, and I think that's gross.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e469	Arne Nävra – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e474	What I hear is that the Minister of Finance did not take pride in his own tradesmanship under the Ministry of Transport, who thought that it had two and three ways to tie this country together. What is interesting now is that SV has got a slightly funny partner in one question. The party of tolls, which perhaps the party of progress fears the most, doesn't like Hordfast, for example. That's an interesting point. That means that for all these spectacular fjord crossings in the ferry-free E39, the drivers will have to pay huge toll sums. For example: Ryfast, now on the move, I guess we're talking about over 90 pst. tolls. That's an interesting question. Then, of course, it is natural to ask the Minister of Finance: when there are so many figures involved, will there be so much, and will she not, on that basis, reconsider the whole ferry-free E39?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e483	The President will consider it there that this question should probably have been addressed to the Minister of Transport, but will leave to the Minister of Finance, the Council of State Jensen, to assess whether she will respond.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e488	It is true that the Minister of Finance has the primary responsibility for the State budget, but she has in no way the main responsibility for the trade unions under the Ministry of Transport, which Mr Nävra's questions are about. But it is now once again like – as I answered the previous question – that this government is busy building good infrastructure across the country. This is requested in districts by district, state by state, from farm to farm, throughout the country. So I think it's an honest thing that SV – they reveal it – will not spend money on road development in Norway. It's probably nice enough to build bike paths and other things in the big cities, but we have a long country. We need to build efficient infrastructure across the country. It's out in the districts that much of the value creation in this country is happening. Our businesses depend on getting their goods transported quickly and efficiently to the markets, and then we need good infrastructure. If SV doesn't want to build it, it's okay – then the voters can notice it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e495	Kristoffer Robin Haug – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e500	The Green Party also believes that road pricing is a fairer system and the way forward. To succeed in the green shift, we have to make it easy and cheap for people most to live in harmony with a better world for people and the environment. But those who are early out on electric cars now fear loss of their advantages while keeping fossil car fees low. It will make fossil cars more attractive. At the same time, the removal of bombs around the big cities will make the private car a more attractive means of emergence. Have I understood the Council of State right in this debate that she agrees that financing toll cuts by applying VAT to electric cars will have a double effect, making it less attractive for people to pollute less?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e507	I've basically responded to this. The government's policy is firm. It's about continuing the incentives and incentives that are in the charging system, so that we can achieve the goals of all new cars being low or zero-emission cars in 2025. But we must not pretend that it means that our entire car fleet has then become a zero-emission car park. There will still be many people in this country who are dependent on the petrol or diesel car in which they are still driving and who are not going to afford to buy a new electric car in the foreseeable future. When we develop car tax policies and other policies, we need to think completely. We can not only target all the instruments against the small group of people in this country who can afford to buy relatively expensive electric cars, we also have to make sure that everyone else has the opportunity to get to and from work with the cars they can afford to drive.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e514	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e519	My question goes to the Minister for Transport. 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, 365 days a year, the taxi industry has a nationwide preparedness – a readiness that gives us all, in urban and rural areas, an opportunity to get to and from the doctor, to and from the station and to and from a party when we cannot drive ourselves. But now people who need transport, gloomy times meet. The government makes it difficult for the taxi industry. Minister Dale is now at the forefront of liberalisation which will give us an over-establishment in the cities and a lack of taxis in the countryside. In this way, the government will provide people with a worse tax offer and at the same time reduce the willingness of the taxi to provide services throughout the country. Now I know that Minister Dale will tell you about the so-called exclusive model as a solution to the problems in the districts. But this model is a trap for the taxi industry. The exclusive right model only applies to 10 pst. of the income of the industry. It'll be better for people in the taxi industry to quit at noon. 17 other than to conclude an exclusive contract. The government has already significantly increased the taxes on the taxi industry, but that is not enough – now, in fact, a doubling of VAT has been proposed on passenger transport. Experience from other countries is that deregulation of the market does not lead to a fall in the prices of taxis when there is an over-establishment. It's just the pay of the drivers that goes down. Tell me, is it the right government's goal to break the back of the Norwegian taxi industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e530	I am by no means surprised by the prophecies of the Center Party. It's what they've almost made their life's work to do. However, the challenge is not that we try to crack the taxi industry. On the contrary, we are trying to lay the groundwork for a profitable taxi industry in the entire country in the overcrowded future. As usual, I hear that the solution of the Center Party is to sit quietly and hope that the problems in the taxi industry go over, but they lose sales every year. Every year they lose turnover – because passengers increasingly choose them away. The only thing we know for sure is that if we continue on the Senterpart track, to sit still and hope that the problems will solve themselves, Norwegian taxi industry will experience even more demanding times in the years to come. The market is changing. People travel quite differently than before. Collective societies adapt to new markets and retrieve their customers from the taxi industry in large cities. Actually, we have to adapt the taxi industry of the big cities to a new era. Then we need to increase competition, we need to increase innovation, we need a lower starting price, and we need a variety of providers that are available when they are requested, not when it's best to have a taxi available. And that's what this change in taxi regulation is all about: actually adapting to the market that's there, so that we lay the foundation for a profitable taxi industry over time. Then we're going to deal with the district challenges. I've talked to the representative Mossleth earlier about what we should do without him Bakke-Roar in Dalsfjorden. He looks after the store, and he looks after the drozja. It worked well. The problem now is that we're struggling to get someone else to do taxi business in many districts today. Thus, the grant of a single right, which gives a permanent monopoly in a geographically defined area, is a way of ensuring that we also have provision in the districts. Here it's not useful to keep an eye on and hope that the problems go over, here we have to regulate the taxi industry with a view to creating a viable future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e543	It's not the Center Party that scares, we're just pointing to what the government is doing. The centre party has proposed a roll-call notification on the taxi industry. The notification shall address the challenges in the industry, but on the basis that the taxi policy is to be part of the collective offer across the country. We have, as a starting point, stability and an industry that can live off. For customers – for great-grandmother, blind, weak, sick, you or me – the government's breaking of the taxi industry means Swedish states. An example of Swedish conditions: Sunday there was great control over Solvalla. The Stockholm police reported that 15 taxi cars were separated. We also know that prices in Sweden are high, so-called ‘freezers’ foam the cream of the market. In view of these experiences, does not the Council of State fear that liberalisation can lead to fraud, fantasy, higher prices and, overall, worse services for people?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e549	The answer to that is no. Those who belong to the representative Mossleth's last post, I'm sure I hear why in my previous post, they thought they were riddled with doomsday prophecies. They don't stick to reality. It is possible that the Centre Party has all the time to deal with the taxi industry while they continue to lose their turnover. But Norwegian taxi drivers don't have that time, because it's their life's work, it's their livelihood that's lost in the meantime if the failure in sales continues. They are the ones who pay for the greatest consequence of our not having a regulated, functioning market, where instead the emergence of facebook agreements and black execution is the alternative to lower entry barriers and a regulated market. The centre party is responding to yesterday's challenges, not tomorrow's. The government is busy helping us to have a profitable, attractive and user-friendly taxi industry both in the cities and in the districts. Then the Center Party can continue to work out – they usually want to – forever, but the Center Party should be familiar with the implication that we risk the cows dying while the grass grows. That's the situation we're actually facing in the Norwegian taxi industry, because the problems don't go away on their own. It has to lower the barriers to establishment; it is a good thing that we can get a profitable, efficient and customer-driven taxi industry in the whole country for years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e556	There will be follow-up questions – first Bengt Fasterøne.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e561	Doomsday Prophecies – what we are concerned about in the Center Party, is that we should have a common and good public transport across the country, with geographical coverage across the country. The centre will have a taxi industry with public regulation of rights, strict quality, safety and environment requirements and regulation of tariffs and services, an industry that is predictable, safe and professional – it will solve an important societal task. The government has set up a market to regulate itself, without a compulsory contract. The ability to manage an industry dependent on many vulnerable groups is removed. In addition, they are moving there that those who are going to do the job are actually moving towards a random unemployment society. The government wants to abolish the obligation to operate. They remove the requirement of professional competence for the privilege holder and remove the central link. Does the minister believe this law motivates the industry in the districts to maintain a 24/7 offer, which people need?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e568	The first half of the post of the Permanent Remembrance representative, I'm a hundred percent unanimous. In the other half, it happens completely. It's not that the customer has a relationship with the licensee, it's the driver. What the government is doing is we're moving the competence requirements from the one who owns the license to the one that runs the car. It is the one that runs the car that we depend on seeing the vulnerable groups that use taxis, whether there are kids in the school shed in the district or there are people who are run home from the hospital, who are unsure if they can get in the door completely. What we're doing is we're systematically shifting the competence requirements from a owner, who doesn't meet the customer, to a driver, who meets the customer every day. That's what makes the taxi industry safer with this proposal, because we see the competence of those who actually run the car, in the high seat. It gives passengers security as to what they meet. It provides stronger skills requirements, and it provides a better supply for all those who choose to use taxis in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e573	Social violence Vedum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e578	The country’s taxi driver is one of the hardest hit by the Progress Party’s charging policy. If you're going to buy a Volkswagen Caravelle or a Mercedes Sprinter, the fees increased from December last year to January this year by 248 000 for a Mercedes Sprinter and 236 00 for a Caravelle. There were tax increases from one month to another with Progress Party leader Siv Jensen as Minister of Finance. The drying industry has also increased VAT, from 8 pst. to 12 pst. Then the Minister of Transport is standing here and is so concerned about turnover in Norwegian taxi industry, when they themselves have increased VAT by 4 pst. and had an explosive increase in the charges, with more than 240000 kroner on a normal station wagon. What kind of policy is this? Why does the Progress Party pursue a charging policy directly affecting Norwegian taxi industry, which makes profitability more difficult and undermines a serious and good industry around Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e585	If the representative Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum had followed, he would have seen that it is not the taxi industry that has gained a lot of growth, while the other transport industries have not received it. On the contrary, we rely on a VAT system that actually makes the customer pay in, through VAT. It's a fair way to pay – a paying for consumption, which allows us to reduce the tax on what we want more of, income – and a sensible way to organise. But the switch from one car brand to another is about another discussion that the Center Party is sometimes trying to turn into a spokesman for, that is, that we're actually going to get a technology shift. This means that if a car gets more expensive because it lets out and another cheaper because it drops out less, choose more to buy cars with lower emissions, even when it's to be used for taxis. This is one of the reasons why we see the emergence of ever more environmentally friendly cars in the taxi industry. It's consistently healthy, and I think the Senterpartie should be strictly taken for, if they think a climate-friendly conversion is also sensible of collective and taxi offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e590	Severe Myrli – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e595	It probably doesn't make any sense to the Minister of Transport what the opposition on Stortinget means. But perhaps what the industry itself means, perhaps what the taxi industry itself means, makes a certain impression on the Minister of Transport. I would recommend that he read the latest issue of the Norwegian Taxi Ban. They have a look-up entitled ‘Worst Government of the Time’ — nothing less — and it is a complete slaughter of government’s taxi policy. In the past, I perceived the country's taxi driver to be among the nuclear electors of the Progress Party. Now you don't meet a single taxi driver who says he or she will vote the Advance Party. The threshing industry and the country's taxi driver are angry and desperate, they are afraid of their job and afraid that the government is destroying their profession with the liberalisation that is now taking place. My question is: what has the government understood in the taxi policy that the country's taxi driver has not understood?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e602	I thank you for the touching concern of our voters. We'll share that. I still intend to keep many of those who are both taxi drivers and taxi owners, in my selection mass in the years to come. That's exactly why we have to change the regulation. In order to lose turnover year after year, and that part of the activity in the industry disappears into the economy we don't see, we can't live with it in length. That's what primarily threatens the jobs of people who run taxis. That's why there's also a difference between the resistance that a person actually experiences among those who own the licenses and are connected to the central banks today, and who have their economy in it, and those who actually run the car. I still meet taxi drivers who see innovative solutions as opportunities to hide in the coming years. I still meet taxi drivers who actually think that if they can organize themselves as self-employed and not just be connected to a central one, it gives the greater possibility, not less possibility, to make money in the taxi industry over the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e607	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e613	We're going to talk about differences, and all the state councils that are here today have a very important role to play in creating a more fair society. My first question goes to the Minister of Finance, who yesterday – and it must be a big day for us on the Storting – recognizes that the differences in Norway are too big. It has been a long journey that has gone on for many years, where the Minister of Finance has refused to admit the very fact that the differences actually increase, and that they are too large. But yesterday it happened. The Minister of Finance is absolutely right. To just give some facts about the situation we are today: the ten percent with the largest wealth in Norway today now own well over half of all wealth in Norway. The richest percent owned one fifth of all wealth. The richest 0.1 pst. owns almost a tenth of all wealth. We also see the same developments in income. Since 2013, they have 10 pst. The wealthiest household has received higher incomes, while the rest have remained relatively still. The 20 pst. at least less than the cost of living. This means, among other things: that in the last year we have seen that in 130 occupations, such as: reindeer, receptivist, primary school teacher and electrician, they've had lower real wages than the previous year, while directors and those at the top have had large increases. The government is the holder of the doubtful record in the number of children growing up in families with the current low income, and at the same time the record in the number of billionaires in Norway. So with yesterday's day behind us -- we'll see in the future, the Minister of Finance has realized that the differences are too big. How will the Minister of Finance now address the situation? How will a reduction in the concentration of power and wealth among them at the top?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e624	This topic we discussed here in the hall for six hours yesterday. It is possible that SV still did not get the differences between the batches here. All the parties in the hall agree that we should preserve a society with little differences. What I said yesterday was that it was important for the government to keep working to reduce the differences in Norway. So you can tackle this in a couple of ways. You can do what SV wants: only to fight wealth. Or you can do what the government does: fight poverty. We've been doing that all over the world for years. It's about facilitating more low-income families get free core time in kindergarten. It's about leisure. It's about housing support. It is about a wide range of schemes that actively help families who have poor finances and receive subsidies from this government. We have increased child welfare, we have secured the cash support – a wide range of instruments that benefit the low-income families. Then Knag County tried to create the impression that it has been almost the government's policy to facilitate poor real wages development. I think I should remind the representative that we had an oil price drop in 2014, an oil price drop that led to many having to intervene. It was also done by the social partners, who, through the wage settlements in the keel water of the oil price drop, contributed to a moderate wage settlement in order for us to recover our competitiveness. Now we have that clear. Now we see that real wage developments are improving, and that's good. However, creating an impression – as I also felt that SV and others tried through the six-hour debate yesterday – that we have a particular problem in Norway regarding differences, I think, is wrong. Norway is one of the world’s least diverse countries. We're going to take care of that, and then it's important to help those who have the greatest challenges in our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e635	I think Stortinget must listen carefully when the finance minister talks about systematics. Just before, she said that a systematic attempt to reduce tolls, but the reality is that they only increase and increase, and likewise systematically work to reduce differences, but they only increase and increase. The number I referred to here at the beginning is directly from the government itself. This is information that actually comes directly from the Ministry of Finance itself. So this isn't an impression we're trying to create, it's an impression the government officially tells the Storting, which is the situation. We see the differences in wealth, we see it in income, but we also see it geographically, because it's in Oslo, in Akershus and partly in Rogaland that the differences are greatest. It's where one finds the largest wealth in Norway, which is becoming increasingly concentrated in ownership, but also in other things. How will the Council of State work to also reduce the geographical disparity policy of the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e647	It's true that we've had a slight increase in inequality in Norway, but it's been there for 30 years. During that period, the Party of Advancement has not been in government. We've been in government for the last six years. We acknowledge that the weak increase in inequality continues under our government, just as it continued when SV was last in government. The question then is: what are the best ways to continue to have a society of small differences, which Norway has – and I hope that SV can recognise in this debate, and not create a scarescreen or black-painting situation in the Norwegian economy. So we live in a country where most people feel good. But one of the main problems, which we also pointed to in the big news, the opportunity message, is that we now see that the group that has the biggest low income challenges are immigrant families. That's where the growth of children growing up in low-income families is greatest. This is about facilitating a better integration policy while at the same time controlling immigration policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e654	It opens for follow-up questions – first Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e659	The fact is that in 2018 there were 130 occupations, quite common occupations in Norwegian society today, which got a real wage cut. Just forget 2014, just forget all the systematic work you've done – it's the reality, it's the reality. At the same time, directors' salaries and salaries for those at the top have increased significantly over the same period. Can the Council of State explain to me the simple relationship there: How does the Minister of Finance's system intervene when 130 occupations actually have real wages decline in 2018?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e664	I replied to that instead. When we met the oil price drop in 2014, the result was that we also had a very moderate wage settlement, which helped to ensure that the even employee did not get the big real wage development that I think many had wanted. Now that's the picture flipped. With the year’s wage settlement, with which the parties are in port – at least much of it – the wage growth is higher than it has been in several years. That's good. Now things are going better in the Norwegian economy, and that also means that it is easier for companies to generate wage increases. But trying to create the impression that the government doesn't take the challenges we have in this society, seriously, that's wrong. That's exactly why we're setting up all the tools to hit those who need it most. That's why we're taking action to help families with low incomes, so that they can master their everyday life better.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e671	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e676	The impression is something that the government itself has created. That's what they've been working for, and that's a situation they've seen us in as a nation. The differences are increasing today, and I would also like to bring one of the other government councils into the carpet - the Minister for Fisheries. We really see the concentration of power and wealth in the field of fisheries. The fisheries minister recently mentioned the compulsory system, which has been a problem. The last time it was up in Stortinget and Per Sandberg suggested a solution, he put his mind in the boil along the whole coast, especially in North Norway – a great uprising. This led to Per Sandberg pulling the whole case. Now the Council of State has said that he wants to find a solution to it again, and suggests that it is the big riders who are left with the big resources, while ordinary people along the coast will be the losers when making up the obligation system. Is this true?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e683	No, that's not true. What has been said is that the obligation system will be mentioned in the notification that comes to the Storting, just to look at the part of the obligation system that does not work. I also think the representative Knag Fylkesnes is getting feedback that there are parts of the duty system, especially related to the processing system, that are not working out there. Then we have to try to set up a fisheries policy so that we still have light in the houses, that we still have businesses that are viable along the coast, and that we still have a variety of fishing fleets that actually bring the fish to land, processed it and created values that can help create jobs for those who have low incomes over time, and contribute to creating incomes that contribute to paying for the measures that you are doing. Then it's important to have an up-and-coming, profitable industry along the whole coast, and that's what we're going to report on.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e688	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e694	State council is not responding to this question. What Per Sandberg suggested was that one should complete the whole duty system, so that the big terns could sit back with the large quantity, while those who had the rightful right to have these fish quotas, i.e. the people of the coast, would sit back with a little bit. Thus, the richest in Norwegian fishing industry was to suffer from the recalibrations of the government, while the people of the coast were to sit back with almost nothing. The question is very simple: is the government going to put up a policy – when someone is going to do the whole duty system – where there are the big riders who are left with the fishing quota, and where the coastal people, through coastal fishing, are going to sit again with almost nothing? Is that the government's policy now?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e701	The President will only recall that the follow-up question should be directly related to the main issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e706	Actually, it is. It's part of the distribution bag.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e711	I would like to answer the question. It is true that in the case of those who own the vessel today — whether it is a boat less than 11 metres, whether it is a small coast, medium coast or large coast, whether it is jets, whether it is ring-not — it is linked to the boat and shipowners what is related to the quota system. It's always been. They actually have to fish the fish. In terms of obligations, I expect the representative to be able to lubricate himself with a little patience. I have said that there will be a message to Stortinget that will also deal with the obligation system. There we're going to go through these things. Eliminating everything that has to do with obligations and the part to do is not the policy to which it is put up.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e718	Fredric Holen Bjørdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e723	Back to the Minister of Finance, who is now forced to admit that under this government, the differences in wealth have increased considerably. Nevertheless – in the government's difference message, Siv Jensen uses only three-four pages of over 150 in its mention of wealth. Some of it's good to spend space on is to indicate that the differences in wealth are smaller if we just take and distribute the oil fund to all the inhabitants of Norway. Whether to distribute a billion billion. 5 million inhabitants, the differences will of course look smaller, but at best it is unprofessional in a discussion about private wealth. At the same time, it is cut in the taxes of the richest people who want more jobs and more investment, but it has never been able to prove it. The only thing we know is that it leads to the richest paying less in taxes and getting richer. So it's a little interesting to ask the Minister of Finance, is it a point for the government to understate the differences in wealth in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e728	We presented an opportunity message, which points to the opportunities we have in this country to facilitate the best possible life for all our inhabitants. It's about facilitating value creation on the one hand, because the most important thing we do to secure our citizens is to make sure that our citizens have a job to do. I understand that the Workers' Party thinks it's a bit sad – I think – that it's going well in the Norwegian economy. There is record low unemployment, employment is on the way up, the employment rate has turned to positive, there is growth across the country and in all industries. This is probably a sign that the overall economic policy of the government works – the combination of the investments we make, that we actually stick to a competitive tax system. I understand that the Workers' Party is concerned with increasing the tax burden. It's this government against it. We believe that a competitive tax system is necessary to ensure jobs and innovation, so that we get tax revenues that can finance well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e733	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e738	My question goes to the Minister of Finance. What have trees ever done for us? We in the Greens believe that this is an absolutely necessary solution in today's situation, with the urgent need to make air cleaner for the thousands of people affected by high air pollution around the big cities. Around the big cities, the booms also have the feature that they give us a very tight build-up of collective services and solutions for walking and cycling. At the same time, the government is investing heavily in bombs in the rest of the country to finance resourceful road projects that expand capacity and facilitate more pollution, which is the opposite of what we in the Green Party want. We are therefore in the ironic situation that the Green Party is the party that has voted against most district bombs on the Stortinget in recent years. With the Environmental Party of the Greens, most people in the districts would pay 50 billion. kr less in tolls, against the 15 br. e.g. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection (CdR) is pleased that the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection (CdR) has been able to support the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer And this is before the government's last decision on even more bombs. My question is: does the Council agree that low-income families in the districts would have saved more with the Greens' proposals for 50 billion? kr less in tolls than e.g. The 15-billion advance party. kr in savings?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e749	The problem with the Green Party is not that they are necessarily against trees, but that they are against roads. I think it would be a very thin comfort to the low-income families in the districts that they had no roads to run on. They may be more dependent than any of them to get to and from work with a car. There are many shiftworkers working at night who have no bus options, as you have here in Oslo. You have to try to get into the situation that many people living in the districts are actually in. They can't jump on a T-Bahn or a tram or a bus. They have to drive a car. Then it is important that we be able to do more things in our transport policy. Yeah, we're going to expand good collective solutions around the big cities, where there's population base large enough to have it. And then we have to make sure to have a good and well-developed infrastructure, roads, in the districts. I don't think the Green Party has a lot to hit the chest for here. They don't want to build roads. This government will. That is why we have strengthened the transport budget by 75 pst. since we joined the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e756	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e762	I have a question for the Minister of Fisheries. Recent toxic algal attacks have affected farming and coastal communities in Northern and parts of Troms hard. It is good that the Institute for the Exploration of the Sea, the Directorate for Fisheries and other parts of the administration have provided knowledge to try to reduce the damage. It is also important that they have come out with information that the cause of the spread of algae is unlikely to have been bred in themselves. Algal blooms have major consequences, especially for the many corner stone companies and employees, who fear their jobs. Several have now been permitted. It is important to maintain local, Norwegian-led actors and to maintain diversity in the industry. It takes up to three years to produce fish. Many people today face a difficult situation with regard to ensuring future activity, especially in local slaughterhouses. What concrete proposals for action does the Minister have, and I am thinking in particular of the small and medium-sized players who are now affected, so that they can quickly regain their activity?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e771	I actually met all of the actors two days ago, to listen to them, to hear what their challenges are in the situation they are now facing. It is important that the measures taken, which we are going to take and which we are going to contribute, are effective, taking the individual into account the needs of the situation. We also agreed – at the request of the breeders themselves – that they would now have to be allowed to deal with the crisis. Then we have to use the time to come back with measures, sit down around the table, find out what's useful, what they want, and how we're going to attack it. What I have said is that, on the part of the authorities, we must contribute. We're going to contribute measures to re-establish production, but based on what helps. That is why I have already agreed that I will meet the industry again next week, up in Lofoten. Furthermore, I have invited them to a meeting when we have taken care of the situation, which we have to do. It's not over yet, it keeps going. I myself took water samples two days ago, while I, among other things, took water samples. visited Mortenlaks, which is one of the hardest hit, by way of 85 pst. the loss of its own production. We get different input, but we also have to know and assume that someone has lost their melt, the smallest fish. They need one type of action. Some have melted ashore today, which is to be launched into the sea. They need one type of action. Others have fish that are now to be slaughtered — they have a different need for action. Therefore, it is important that we use this time — which farmers themselves have asked for — to find the right measures. I'll do that. I have already invited the industry to a meeting. We're going to sit down, just to figure out what's going to happen. There may be different measures that we will consider in this respect.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e782	I thank you for the answer, and I thank you for the fact that the Council of State has visited the area and entered into dialogue. But I am also aware that he has received a letter from those who represent over 44 of the small and medium-sized ones in the Salmon Group. The head of board is also from the area. The large listed companies can move their masses around, while the small ones are located in the areas that are now affected. One of the concrete measures they propose is to have greater flexibility in the current crisis situation and the possibility of moving and using old sites, etc. Do you want to ignore the strict governance regime to ensure that we do not lose the diversity that is attached to small and medium-sized players? And do you have thoughts about readiness, using knowledge to avoid this? People who harvest and live from the sea are dependent on clean seas and that it is sustainable, but the sea is also lukewarm. So how do you use that knowledge so that you can get the development that's now taking place in advance? And then increased flexibility is also important.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e791	As I said, there are a number of measures we have to go in and look at. One is, of course, the monitoring piece, which for some reason was dropped in 2010. Then this government did not sit down, but it was closed in 2010. What was the reason for that, I don't know; I'm going in and looking at it. In addition, we don't know enough about why this algae got this flowering and became toxic. That's another thing we have to look at. We need to spend money on research, as this government has done to those degrees: allocate money to ocean-related research. Then we have to look at what's related to biomass in the plants, we have to look at locations that can be accessible. There are different aspects relating to small, medium-sized and large players. This is exactly what we are going to look at and discuss at the meeting. Otherwise, just one of the parties I met, Mortenlaks, is part of the Salmon Group. I got firsthand knowledge from them when I was standing on the periphery and saw the terrible sight that met me there. But they asked, let's get to deal with the crisis first, let's use the time we need to take the right action. And we'll do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e802	There will be follow-up questions – first Ruth Grung.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e807	Does this mean that the Minister will also look a little away from the strict administrative regime and create specific arrangements for small and medium-sized enterprises? In the case of part of the sites that are now affected, it will take two years before they can be re-used, so it's a short horizon. They have been working around the clock for a long time on the crisis situation, but having predictability and having a minister who says yes to the measures they themselves have proposed would have been very nice to hear from here.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e812	Yes – but I think the most important thing we do is that we first listen to those who are in trouble and let them define what can help them in the acute situation, i.e. in the short, medium and long term – what makes it possible for us to do this again. That's what they asked me to do. I intend to do that, and I want to keep in touch with the industry so that we can get it done. Then both the Directorate of Fisheries and the Food Authority have already granted a number of exemptions to deal with the situation. All the crisis management that we end up in here is that we let whoever is closest to the crisis, who is standing and handling it, and who is now, in fact, the Fisheries Directorate up there, deal with the crisis first. Then we have to come up with the measures, and we're going to bring them in time, so we get this up and go again. Because I really need to say that they're in big trouble, they're working around the clock, and then they deserve us to take it seriously, and that we make sure that we bring in remedial measures related to this production, which they themselves will take the initiative to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e819	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e824	Although I have a lot of criticism to say to the Minister for Fisheries, I think he is handling the situation well in this matter. But there are also many aspects to this matter that raise new questions, including: the capacity we have for environmental monitoring, inter alia: algar, and not least the type of preparedness you have if such things happen. There's reason to believe, and there's a lot of people who have also said it, that this kind of case, with the blooming of algae or other things that could damage industries along the coast, could increase in time. The Council of State plans to do something overall with coastal environmental protection, including: in the case of biology and algal development, etc.?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e831	I've already contacted the Marine Research Institute, because we need more knowledge, we need to look at different models of how we can both monitor and use the flow maps that are already there. We have BarentsWatch, which already works. But we also have to look at the different models. Why you haven't had good systems in place, enough is the representative better to answer than me, all the time it was the government that set in 2010, which made sure to put down the algae monitoring that was actually along the coast, until then, as it was. I was working on it. Here it's important that we don't owe each other, but that we can actually work together in the future and see how we can get better, how we can develop the models to meet the future. Because we've had several algal blooms that aren't very well known. In 2008, we also had mortality related to algae. Luckily, there was an impression and saved us, so it was short-lived. We had a large algal bloom in 1991, which was not linked to the breeding bit. That's why it's important that we take action, and that we do our best to avoid this in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e840	Let's move on to the next, and then the last, main questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e846	My question goes to the Minister of Finance. This year it's 200 years since Oslo Børs was established. Last month, a 200-year anniversary was celebrated in Oslo City Hall, but it may seem to be a sad end to the anniversary year. Oslo Børs is an important national institution built through generations, which has served Norwegian business well, and has contributed to securing capital for businesses throughout our long-term country. The fact that we have had an independent national stock exchange has been an important contribution to the short distance between the stock exchange and those to be served by the stock exchange. What is happening now is that Oslo Børs is in play, not through a deliberate strategy from the stock exchange owners, but through a buy-in raid from a European stock exchange group, which has secured acceptance from over half the stock exchange shareholders behind the back of the board and management. There are clear warnings from the largest owner of the stock exchange, DNB, where the state itself is a major owner, clear warning from savings banks as owners, clear warning from KLP and clear warnings from one of the main industrial politicians of the government parties from the West, Ove Trellevik, who in the VG have said that Norwegian business will have more difficult access to capital and that Norwegian financial industry will be able to confuse over time. Why does the Minister of Finance think it makes sense, after 200 years, that we should no longer have an independent stock exchange in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e857	Let me first say that I share the good descriptions of the stock exchange and the importance of the stock exchange in Norway, but let me remind you a little about the history. The stock market was privatised in 2001 by the Stoltenberg government. The State does not own shares in the stock exchange. Since this bidding competition, whether it be called it, arose between the two actors, the Ministry of Finance's task was one, and it was limited to testing whether the two actors, Euronext and Nasdaq, were suitable owners under the legislation – a regulation adopted by the Stortinget. That's what the Ministry of Finance had in that case. It's not like we're not going to have an exchange in Norway in the future. What I'm registering is that it's now up to the private shareholders, the owners of the stock exchange, to decide who they might want to sell their holdings to. It has to be up to the private shareholders. This is not the task of the Ministry of Finance or the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e864	It is the Minister of Finance who, under the law, is responsible for approving or not approving, and the criteria on which the Minister of Finance is to assess are both financial stability considerations and how a servant of the Norwegian capital market. There have been clear warnings from the financial industry, from the banks, from the business community, which the stock exchange is supposed to serve, and from central representatives of the government parties against what is now happening. The market has a very central role and is world leader in areas such as energy, shipping and seafood. When you look at the experience with Euronext, where you have had a company flight of 60 pst. in the number of listed companies on the Euronext stock exchange, why is it reasonable to make Oslo Børs a branch under Euronext instead of maintaining an independent national stock exchange in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e869	I think I want to repeat what I said instead: Oslo Børs was privatised by the Stoltenberg government in 2001, and the state has no holdings in the stock exchange. The role of the Government and the Ministry of Finance is to assess the suitability of the two actors who wish to acquire shares in the stock exchange. We have done so, based on an assessment also by the Financial Supervisory Authority. And we've followed the rules adopted by the Storting. It is typically the centre party to try to create uncertainty and concerns about whether we are going to have an exchange in Norway in the future. Of course we're going to have an exchange. But it's like I have to follow the code I'm running, and I've made it a point.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e874	There will be follow-up questions – first Geir Pollestad.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e879	In this question hour, we have heard that the finance minister and party leader Siv Jensen has talked a lot about politics as she wants, but perhaps not quite. Then, too, when it comes to Oslo Børs, I would like to ask a question about what the Minister of Finance wants. My question is quite simply: Is the Minister of Finance in agreement with the Central Party and would like to see a spread and, to a large extent, national ownership of Oslo Børs? Or does the party leader in the Progress Party want Oslo Børs to become a branch of a European stock exchange group?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e884	I am concerned that the stock exchange should be a good market place for those actors who are there. That's Oslo Børs, and that's all possible reason to think that's going to keep Oslo Børs. I have to remember the history of this, back to 2001. Then there was a broad majority in this Chamber – perhaps with the exception of the Centre Party, which took some reservations – who joined the Stoltenberg government’s proposal to privatise the stock exchange. And so it's like we have a lot of private ownership in Norway. I didn't think the Center Party was against it. Private ownership seems to work relatively well, so this is an institution that has been privately owned since 2001, which is still privately owned in the future, and which is to be a marketplace for the players listed on the stock exchange.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e891	Kristoffer Robin Haug – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e896	Predictability and transparency are important for confidence in politicians both in fiscal policy and in other areas. For example, in the Greens, we are open about hugging the trees around the big cities, as a necessary solution in today's situation. In the mountains even Thor Haakon Bakke has literally squeezed a bomb. Governments have spoken extensively about government policies to widen the roads across the country, even when it leads to expensive bombs. My question is: is the Council of State so proud of the government's bombing policy that she wants to take Minister of Transport Dale out into the districts and squeeze a bomb?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e901	The President must remind us that, according to the Rules of Procedure, the question of follow-up should be related to the main issue. The President will nevertheless leave it up to the Council of State to assess whether she will respond to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e906	I'm not quite sure what tolls in the districts have to do with Oslo Børs, but I can assure the representative that the government is going to continue to work on expanding infrastructure across the country, making the toll ratio as low as possible for the drivers and facilitating that we get good infrastructure, which is important for our business, and which is important for our citizens. Then we have to make sure that money is allocated for road construction. We have. The transport budget has increased by 75 pst. since we came into government, and the toll percentage has fallen – it would otherwise be much higher. And as I said to the previous question asked by the representative, it is possible that the Greens are against the bomb, but the Greens are also against the Greens. That's essentially a good enough answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e912	With that, the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e926	There will be a number of changes in the set question list, and the President will refer to the electronic question list in the salap. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Sigbjørn Gülsvik to the Prime Minister, has been transferred to the Minister for Justice and Immigration. Question 2, from the representative Ingrid Heggø to the Prime Minister, has been transferred to the Minister for Oil and Energy. Question 4, from the representative Odd Omland to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, will be raised by the representative Kari Henriksen. Question 7, from the representative Lise Christoffersen to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, will be taken up by the representative Anne Sandum. Question 8, from the representative Geir Inge Lien to the Minister for Industry, has been transferred to the Minister for Climate and Environment, who is directing him. Question 13, from the representative of Åsunn Lyngedal to the Minister for Oil and Energy, is moved and answered according to question 2, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 14, from the representative Lene Vågslid to the Minister for Justice and Immigration, is moved and answered according to question 1, to be answered by the same Council of State
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e950	This question, from the representative Sigbjørn Gülsvik to the Prime Minister, has been transferred to the Minister of Justice and Immigration.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e955	‘In an interview with VG on 7 January 2017, Prime Minister Erna Solberg stated that she wants the statutory obligation to accept cash to be removed by 2020, with the objective of a cashless society by 2030. On 17 May this year, key parts of the Vipps service were unavailable for a longer period, and this week Norway’s largest bank reported major technical problems. Does the Prime Minister wish to continue to remove the legal obligation to accept cash by 2020 and a cashless society by 2030?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e962	The question has been addressed to the Prime Minister, but is answered by me, since the rules of the Finance Agreement Act on the right to cash payment fall within the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice and Defence. The Prime Minister’s opinion to the VG in January 2017 was given in a context in which she headed the work of Højre on a plan for a digital Norway, which was mainly about how Norway should meet digital development offensively. It was in this respect that the question of the obligation to accept cash was mentioned. It follows from the third paragraph of Section 38 of the Financial Contracts Act that a consumer is always entitled to settle cash with the payee. However, the provision raises a number of questions and it has proved difficult to determine how far the right to cash payment is in practice. The Financial Contracts Act was adopted in 1999. As the representative of Gülsvik probably knows, a lot has happened since then in terms of payment solutions, and there is clearly a need to look at precisely these rules. The financial market notification for 2019 shows that the Ministry of Justice and Security will consider the rules on the right to cash payment after the work on a new Financial Agreement Act. The question of the legal obligation to accept cash raises a number of fundamental and practical questions, and these change naturally as a result of social development. As I have said in an earlier Question Time, how should you, for example, pay for online services if you are to have a right to pay in cash there as well? Now much more of the trade goes online. At the same time, there is reason to stress that there should always be opportunities to pay cash, for example. to pay in cash to obtain food and to obtain transport and other important services that are needed in our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e975	I thank you for the answer, but it was still not an answer to the question. I am aware that the Prime Minister has sent the Council of State to answer the question, but it is nevertheless that the Prime Minister is the head of the Minister of Justice, and it is therefore also interesting to hear what is the government's ambition, whether the ambition expressed by the Prime Minister is in line with the government's ambition to remove the legal obligation to handle cash by 2020, that is. in the course of next year, and whether one will target a cashless society by 2030. One of the reasons why it's also interesting to get answers to is that the Minister of Justice himself has been out in the media and commented on the question, to ABC News, and said that society is moving more and more to becoming cashless. At the same time, measurements show that a lot of people want cash, and then it's important to make things right. How does the government want to make concrete arrangements for people to be able to use cash in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e982	As I was just briefed on, the government's policy is that it is a right today to pay with cash. As I also briefed on, the Ministry of Justice and Security will now review the rules to clarify them, so that the rules are adapted to a slightly more modern situation – as we now have – where we can take over all the changes that have occurred since 1999. As I also said, it should be a right to use cash, especially when it comes to important services. But we also have to assume that society has changed a lot. There are some practical problems in designing such rules, and there are some practical challenges to how far this right to pay with cash should apply, for example. online commerce. It is in a way difficult to have a right to pay with cash on the Internet.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e989	What people experience is that it's becoming increasingly difficult to get paid with cash in many ways. There is no new problem, there is a case after case. In the case of public communications, it is in the hands of doctors, it is in the hands of other public services, and in the case of the settlement of purchases of goods and services, cash has become more difficult to use. At the same time, no concrete proposals have been made by the government to ensure that the statutory obligation to handle cash is actually followed up in practice. The government is dragging its legs, pushing the matter out in time. At the same time, there are statements from both the Prime Minister and, most recently, the Minister of Justice that we are moving towards a cashless society. 60 pst. says in a poll that they still want cash, only 17 pst. support the objective of the Minister of Justice and the Prime Minister of a cashless society. When do concrete measures come from the government to meet people's wishes and needs for cash?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e994	It seems that the representative Gülsvik misunderstands what is an actual description by the Minister of Justice, and what is a desired policy. There was an actual description in the interview with me in ABC News, where I said we're moving towards a cashless society. If the representative Gülsvik hasn't brought it, it's a little strange. There is no doubt that the facts indicate that more and more transactions in Norway are cashless, but there is a difference between what has been the government's policy, namely that we should have a right to pay with cash. And we're going to promote a new financial agreement law during the fall.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e1005	Then we go to question 14.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e1013	«In a case published in Dagbladet on 21 May, for the first time in five years, there are figures of annual work in the police and civil servants' seat at municipal level from the Statistical Central Bureau. [[SSB]] How does the State Council of SSB consider its statistics to be in line with the objective of the close police reform of equivalent police services wherever you live and the principle of close police?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e1020	First of all, I want to correct some misunderstandings and misconceptions. The SSB statistics to which the Dagbladet refers and the representative refers are based on where you are a-registered, i.e. work-registered. The A-registration says nothing about what the police coverage actually is in that municipality. I am concerned that the police are present in the municipalities, and that they are present where crime happens. Therefore, the presence will vary from crime to crime. In some municipalities there will be more presence because they have more crime. Local police services shall not be organised in such a way that the number of police posts in a geographical area determines the police service provided to the community. Each police officer and woman shall not be bound to one specific place. They shall, in the light of knowledge and knowledge of local challenges, prevent and combat crime where the greatest need exists. Strengthening police resources locally requires good planning and strategic fleet management of police patrols in order to provide good police services to citizens. This is done through 12 new operational centres that allow efficient disposal and fleet management of resources throughout the police district, so that there is an appropriate allocation and allocation of police resources at all times. The police patrol is a central part of the police's presence locally. The police patrol is the visible and important contact with the population and constitutes the basic preparedness at local level. For many officials, the office is now actually in the car, and therefore the government in the revised national budget has proposed to grant 100 million. Extra to the police for the purchase of new equipment. As the representative also knows, police patrols are now working differently than before the reform. Several tasks are specifically addressed on the ground by the police patrols, through what is referred to in the reform as ‘on-site police’. The working method, which is similar across the country, enhances police prevention, security-creating presence, response time and immediate investigation, contributing to better quality and more effective police work locally. I also want to stress that all police districts in Norway have more police posts. There are a total of 1,650 more police posts on 31 March 2019 than there were on 31 December 2013. It has increased preparedness in Norway, and it has increased the police’s ability to handle cases throughout Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e1035	‘Defection’ has become a new word that this government is pleased with, but it is not just the SSB report that is crushing for the implementation of the near-police reform when it comes to the local police. We also have a number of reports in recent years that confirm the same thing. And even if you can see a total strength at district level, there is little comfort for the Telemark residents, for example, who have experienced that there have been over 30 fewer annual jobs in two years. I have asked almost all the predecessors of the Minister of Justice, of whom there have been quite a few, what they have done to follow up the decision to raise the deficit – a unanimous decision – which says that all the remaining service places should be strengthened. I have received a response from most people that it is working with. One answer, from the previous Minister of Justice, was that he wasn't quite sure about it. My question to the Minister of Justice now is what the Minister of Justice is doing to specifically follow up the unanimous decision in Stortinget that all remaining places of service, formerly referred to as the Länsmannskontoret, should be strengthened.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e1042	The government's ambition is that we should lift the police even more. We have an ambition that by 2020 we will finally achieve the target of two police officers per 1,000 inhabitants throughout Norway. It'll be a big boost from the time that the last government set up, when we only had 1.71 police officers per 1,000 inhabitants. So now we're talking about policemen who are trained in the police. We have seen an overall increase of over 2,800 people in the whole of Norway since 2013, of which 1,650 are trained policemen, and 1,450 of them are located in the districts. It is obvious that districts throughout Norway have been strengthened. It is important that local police officers have the opportunity to allocate their resources where they see that it is most necessary. But I am also concerned that we should have a visible and present police force throughout Norway, and that is one of the things I come back to in the big message we have already notified.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e1049	The decision was not to strengthen the police districts. The decision made in Stortinget is very clear. It's going at the service city level, it's going on at the local police station. Hundreds of vocabularies have now signed a plug-in. More people are going to follow. There's also a big uprising among the trustees in the police, because you experience and get the right that it looks locally, that one gets met locally, is a misconception. But the reality is out there – and I think the Minister of Justice will realize that if he travels around and visits the police districts and also talk to police officers – the local level, many of the county offices and the places of service that survived the closure, to say it, has been weakened. It is contrary to what we have decided, and it is also contrary to statements from, among other things. Christian People's Party, which is now in government and was also in the conciliation. The Minister of Justice says to Dagbladet that he takes the criticism seriously. In what way will the Minister of Justice take the criticism seriously in the message he has warned?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e1054	As I said to Dagbladet, there are several studies that there is reason to take seriously. I also told Dagbladet that the statistics they presented were not very serious, because it gave a very small picture. What is important to us is, of course, that we take the investigation among the police and among the population, and not least the diffi survey seriously. These are challenges in the reform of the police. I haven't hidden that at any time. That is why we are also going to promote a big message during the spring session in which we are going to point out how we can address these challenges and assess whether we should make adjustments to the reform of the neighbourhood. As I said, I'm concerned that we're going to have more visible police there on the street, and I have an ambition that it's not necessarily just when there's serious crime, that the police are going to be present in communities around Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e1061	We go to question 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e1069	This question, from the representative of Ingrid Heggø to the Prime Minister, has been transferred to the Minister of Oil and Energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e1074	‘In Nordfjordeid, the Prime Minister of the NRK Sogn and Fjordane stated that the power sector must be run more effectively before discussion can take place. Can the Prime Minister explain whether the statement made in Nordfjordeid is an explanation and understanding of the wording of the new government platform until the requirement to merge a network company is made before a thing is done and introduces the smoothing of a network lease?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e1081	This government is busy with the power bill of those who actually pay it. That is why work is now being started on that very starting point. In this work it is not a question of making demands for aggregation. The Granavolden platform states that we are to assess how we can smooth the network for all consumers through the most efficiently organised grid. So Stortinget has also asked us to look at instruments and measures that improve competition and that contribute to equal prices and a secure power supply at the lowest possible cost for the power consumers. This is what the government has to deliver on. A well-functioning power grid helps us all to use power when we need it. The development and operation of the network has a cost. It's that the users of the web pay. We see that the network is also growing, for households, businesses and industry. The network lease is also an essential part of our electricity bill. Technological developments and changes in consumption and production patterns also impose new requirements on network operators. In order to deal with this, we need network companies with a more complex competence than today, because it is important that the power grid is used and operated as efficiently as possible, so that the investment does not exceed what is necessary. This will help to keep network rentals down for all electricity consumers. What is important to me is that the costs for the power consumers should not be higher than necessary. Differences in the network path between areas are due, inter alia, to: geographical conditions, differences in customer base and differences in efficiency. Several anti-tariff models that have been investigated in the past have been rejected because the incentive of the network companies to operate effectively has been weakened. This is unfortunate given the challenges faced by the network companies in the years to come. That's why I have what I have, among other things. initially, Norway’s watercourse and energy directorate has given an investigative mission. I will then come back to the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e1094	Effective operation is important. At least we can only do that. But both what we refer to as the SFE model and what District Energy has come with as a model take into account the requirements for efficient operation. The Right Party and the Advance Party replied in the previous case that, in the case of the requirement from the bulk of the flooding of network leases, mergers were the only dangerous way. But, as I said, the bulk of the spill was disunity. The Prime Minister repeated in Nordfjord that mergers were the only answers, but I understand the Council of State so that it is not what it has actually said. What evidence is there that the Council of State now says that larger units are needed to operate effectively?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e1101	The representative points to the SFE model, one of many models. What I referred to is what is on the Granavolden platform, and what the Storing has decided. We're going to go through this. We're going to do that in a thorough and proper way, and then we're going to conclude with changes to the model that underpins the way things are done today. It is shown that mergers are believed to have been an objective and the answer to all the questions raised by this government. That's not right. Mergers know that we have led to lower network rentals in some places. Mergers are the answer somewhere, but that's not the answer everywhere. Mergers will in any case be local decisions, which must be taken in the different companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e1108	We can be some about it with efficiency, as I said. Then we'd like to – I'm a little insecure there – to disagree if it takes very large units to run effectively, because it's both small and large companies that are top in efficiency. Sognekraft is an example of a small company – on all possible scales – and is one of the most efficient online companies in the country, but has very high online rents. If one merges all the companies in Sogn and Fjordane, the inhabitants will not get lower rents. I am very excited about how far the government has come in terms of different models. Can the Council of State guarantee that we have managed and introduced models before the 2021 elections?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e1115	I can promise the representative that we will come back before 2021 with the job that has been started. At the same time, I think it's worth spending the time that's needed on this job. It is a comprehensive system that has consequences for very many electricity consumers, the industry, etc. There are a lot of input into this debate. I have assumed that we will do this in a proper and tidy way before we draw the conclusions. Then, of course, you should come back to Stortinget, as Stortinget has asked.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e1122	So we go to question 13.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e1130	‘From LNG operators in Norway it is claimed that the Dutch company Barents Naturgas has had an exclusive agreement with Equinor for the extraction of LNG from Melkøya since 2007. They get to buy 100 pst. of Equinor’s capacity for loading on a tanker at a very advantageous price. This has hindered free competition and stopped other actors from establishing themselves in the north. Does the Council of State see a monopoly situation established and can the Council of State contribute to the creation of a well-functioning market based on a level playing field?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e1137	In the plan for the development and operation of Snow White, the Ministry required the organisation of local and regional LNG extraction. On this basis, a filling station was established on Melkøya. In 2008, Barents Natural Gas concluded an agreement with Equinor for the purchase of LNG. This agreement was concluded under entirely normal commercial conditions. At that time, there was little interest in developing a North Norwegian LNG market. Barents Natural Gas was the only user of the filling station at start-up. That's why Barents Natural Gas also had to guarantee financially for the filling station and commit to a long-term extraction of LNG. The other licensing partners may also sell LNG on Melkøya. Barents Natural Gas’ agreement with Equinor applies to Equinor’s 67 pst share. The remaining 33 p.m. may be used by other companies. This has also been done, and a few years ago, Gasnor – owned by the world’s largest LNG operator, Shell – LNG from Melkøya. I emphasise that the LNG distribution in the area is established in competition with other energy carriers, and that it has actually been facilitated for more operators to deliver LNG. Therefore, I do not believe that this is a monopoly situation for the extraction of LNG on Melkøya. That several operators are now starting to take an interest in the sale of LNG in North Norway, I am very positive about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e1146	I notice that it is suggested that there is an agreement on a market price. In practice, as the Council of State is sure to know, LNG is sold on a daily fixed price on a gas exchange. If a company could buy below market prices, they could take out a larger margin, and they would have full control of all their competitors because they know what competitors have to pay. If Equinor, who disposes of 67 p.m., would sell everything to one actor, and they, for example, would. had a discount of 20-30 pst. at market prices, that operator would win all tenders in the Nordic industry and would effectively impede all competition in the market for LNG in North Norway. I understand that we may have a slightly different opinion, but are buyers of small scale natural gas in North Norway earned that there is in practice only one provider of gas for both process industry, ferries and the other shipping industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e1153	I am pleased that the representative is engaged in a well-functioning market. That's exactly why you've made the construction you've made, which has a story behind it, as I showed. Here it is important to go to the start of Melkøya and the withdrawal of LNG — and what was adopted in connection with the PUD, not by this government, but by another government. What is important to me is that there is not one actor who has a monopoly on the sale of LNG on Melkøya, and I think that is clear from the agreements that are. Equinor has his right to sell; the other partners have their right to sell. Equinor has an agreement with Barent's Natural Gas, and I record that there are also other actors inside and buying LNG. The price is for the commercial companies to decide.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e1160	For the Workers' Party, it was very important that there were opportunities for regional development through local extractions from Melkøya. If you have 67 pst. and is well below the market price, that means that no one else has the opportunity – whether there are 33 psts. again in the market that you can buy at a much higher price. Barents Naturgas had a local ownership when entering into this agreement, but in 2014 it was sold to a Dutch investment company, and now we have an agreement that has run since – you say in 2008 – I have been informed in 2007. You could ask yourself what kind of deal it is. Should it be forever, and should it be just one actor in the market in the north? Could the Council of State, as owner of 67 p.m., agree on whether there is an agreement at market conditions, and possibly clarify this situation for the benefit of North Norwegian business?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e1169	I believe that I have clarified with the answers I have given, and there are some leads in the PUD that were adopted, but not by this government. There is an offer of extraction of local LNG in Hammerfest. I'm glad. That's good, and we owe it to all the turnover from business activity that comes from it. I just have to be allowed to clarify that the agreements that are made in terms of price and duration are the companies themselves, the commercial companies, who are responsible for them. I think that's a good and proper division of labour. I record that Barents Natural Gas has done a job over time to be an offerer, but that there are also other companies that have done it. I think that's good. Other companies make it a well-functioning market, which I believe we're both busy with.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e1178	The President will draw attention to the fact that when you are in this Chamber, all speech is to be made via the President, and you are to refer to members of the Government as governor and not you. Then we go to question No. 3, from the representative of Rigmor Aasrud to the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e1188	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Finance: ‘When the case of the pension from the first crown was dealt with in the month-end of January/February 2019, the majority of the population decided the following: ‘The government asks the government to set down a sample of the parties to assess the pension from the first crown.’ What is the mandate of the sample and who is in the sample?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e1197	As the government wrote in the Financial Market Communication that has just been presented, the government is setting up a working group on pensions from the first dollar. The Working Party will be composed of members of the LO, NHO, YS and Working Party as well as the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. The Ministry of Finance will chair the working group at the level of the Office. Financial supervision will provide secretarial resources. Invitations to join the working group were sent out on Monday and work may start when the list of participants is ready. The deadline for work is set for spring 2020. It will allow the working group to adapt its pace and progress to the salary line in 2020, if necessary. The Working Party is mandated to discuss the issue of early retirement pensions in deposit pension schemes. In addition, the working group shall assess whether there should be compulsory membership of private occupational pension schemes for employees under 20 years of age or with a capacity of less than 20 pst. The working group shall, inter alia: look at solutions that provide almost unchanged costs for enterprises and assess cross-employee distribution effects and types of enterprises. The working group shall draw up draft legislative amendments which may be submitted to consultation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e1212	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The matter has been updated today, because today cleaning workers, kitchen workers and employees who work part-time in hospitals strike because they neither get a pension when they have part-time jobs, nor can they participate in the insurance schemes that others have and that we, among other things, have. can be found in the municipal sector. I am pleased that the Council of State will finally come forward with this mandate, but it is a bit striking that questions have to be asked in the Storting before such matters arise. That's the second time I ask that kind of question, and then the answer to what's going on is one day before we go to the hall. The council said when we dealt with this matter after Christmas, that it was not going to go year and day before the mandate and the selection came into place, but we can see that at least it has gone winter and spring. Does the Council of State realize that the staff are impatient?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e1223	We have followed up the decision that Stortinget has made, as quickly as possible, and as I said in my previous answer: now this has gone out to the meeting participants, so that they can set up who will sit in this sample. I am pleased that we are now getting it in place, and that we are making arrangements for them to work quickly, so that you can deal with it in connection with your salary settlement next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e1228	It is – as I said – good that the sample is now being set down, but I have to say that when I got a response in the month change January/February that the department was already working on this, and I was assured that it would be progressing in the matter, and that it was not going to go year and day before the case came back to Stortinget, that is exactly what it does: it is going to go year and day before we get this case back to Stortinget. With a little more speed in the preparation of the mandate, some more cooperation with the parties, we could come much further today, and I find it regrettable that no further efforts have been made to establish this mandate. However, I am pleased that it is in place, and I also expect the Government to do what it has said, that it will produce a positive result, because that is what the government parties have laid down. I'm just asking the council to confirm that that's also her attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e1235	There is no reason for the representative Aasrud to suspect the will and the ability to have progress in all the matters we follow up that have been adopted in Stortinget. The government does, and the Minister of Finance does – in this case as in all other cases. I can also assure you that the work will have the progress we have made. So it's up to those who are going to sit in this sample, to come up with their recommendations, and I think that would be very stupid of the finance minister to shoot now.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e1245	This question, from the representative Odd Omland to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, will be raised by the representative Kari Henriksen.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e1250	‘The Children’s Ombudsman considers that the State must take greater responsibility for the protection of children. Assistant national attorney points out that much of the crime we see in youth could have been avoided if prevention had been better. The government does not listen to the Children’s Ombudsman and other child protection failures reports. Every day, children in child protection don't get the help they need. So to say all the actors say they need more employees in municipal child protection. Now, when the Council of State says no to more eartag jobs, how will he help the children?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e1257	As Minister for Children and Family Affairs, my main task is to work for all children and young people to have a safe and healthy upbringing. This government has therefore set in motion a number of measures to strengthen the supply of vulnerable children, including the provision of services for young people. by promoting a stepping-up plan against violence and abuse, for which the Christian People's Party was perpetrated in the previous period. There is a cross-political agreement that the municipalities should be responsible for child protection and other prevention services for children and young people. It is important, because it is the municipalities that are closest to discovering children who have difficulties and put in the right help and action at an early stage. The representative Odd Omland, and now the representative Kari Henriksen, seems to believe that government governance through the designation of funds is the only thing that can help municipalities to get better prevention in place. I disagree. I believe that the concrete assessments of child protection personnel should be taken locally because municipalities are best able to prioritize resources and measures where the need and benefits are greatest. In some municipalities, there may be a greater number of child-restraint workers — in other municipalities, the best measure may be an additional health care provider, outpatient or family counselling. Good solutions often need to be developed on the basis of local resources, opportunities and competences. But it does not relieve the government of responsibility. I take seriously that many municipal child protection services report capacity challenges. Good urban economy is important to ensure that municipalities have the opportunity to prioritise child protection. This government has contributed to this. There is a record for municipalities on the ROBEK list, and municipalities have done a great job recruiting more people in child protection. In addition, in 2019 we have set aside 80 million. kr for various competence measures and 30 million. kr to a sorely entrenched digitisation lift. This will free up time for employees and make the flow of work more efficient so that employees can spend more of their time helping vulnerable children and families. We closely follow child protection and have sent new child protection laws to the hearing. Here we propose, among other things: that municipalities should become more closely involved in child-restraint services in order to increase the knowledge of the needs of local authorities and thus improve the decision-making capacity of vulnerable children and young people in their own municipality. It will also contribute to greater local involvement in the provision of child protection and to a higher level of child protection on the agenda of the municipality. The state has an important responsibility to facilitate good priorities in the municipalities, but it is the municipalities themselves that have the best prerequisites to find good solutions for the needs of each child protection service.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e1274	Many of the measures taken by the Councils are also agreed in the opposition, including: to increase competence and the need for municipalities to involve themselves more. But that's not what this is about. It's about whether we're going to have a more governmental governance of the main challenges. Let me read a note from the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party in the Inner East. 354 L for 2016-2017: ‘These members note that the Children’s Ombudsman writes that it is irresponsible to give more tasks to today’s municipalities, Bufdir believes that there is a risk that the proposals will lead to a worsening of the offer to the children’. Our response to this has been three-fold: more jobs, stopping the leakage of money to commercial operators and letting that money benefit the children, and a broad quality reform to increase trust, strengthen skills and reduce inequalities and strengthen legal certainty. All of this is the government's vote down. Why does not the State take greater responsibility for the children who experience child protection failures every day?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e1286	Every day, we work to make child protection better, and we take the real challenges that are there. That is why I am pleased with the consensus the representative refers to regarding the measures we are taking and are going to take. But I also agree with the three grips that Kari Henriksen points to. Then we disagree on how we solve manning challenges in the best possible way. I'm concerned with competence. When I point to Digi Children's Protection and the digitisation promise that is coming, it's just for you to release more time, but also better quality of service. When we've set aside so much resources, 80 million. This is because we want to further develop the skills available and improve the service. We look at the figures that from 2013 to 2017, there have been 1,150 more employees. I am pleased that more employees have arrived each year under this government than when the Workers' Party crashed. And we'll keep giving municipalities good finances so they can hire more people in child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e1293	I record that the Council of State is still decorating these figures. Many of the positions were based on decisions taken under the Stoltenberg administration, but now they were not. Children's Ombudsman Bejer Engh says: There are no limits to how much supervision we have that says municipal child protection does not protect children well enough. Serious concerns are often not followed up, but once the State has delegated responsibility to the municipalities, the State must intervene when the municipalities do not deliver. I asked the Council of State in connection with the quality reform about how many tasks have been added to municipal child protection in recent years. And with regard to the figures referred to by the Council of State, 1 150 new posts, it was estimated in 2011 that there must be 1,500 posts, and that was a four-year escalation plan for the previous government. – I received a response from the Council of State, six pages of new tasks have come to Child Protection. So anyway, the state is putting its hands on it and leaving responsibility. What's changed? In opposition, the Christian People's Party took national responsibility. Are children less important when given power?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e1302	The growth of children and young people is important regardless of the position in which they sit. It is my greatest responsibility and my task to ensure that as many children as possible are as safe and well-growthed as possible. But the speech of the numbers is pretty clear: it's not necessarily that when you run earring, it's what contributes to the most escalation. When the figures actually show that the municipalities have employed more people without designation, this means that the municipalities also take their responsibility. I think that the grip we take on the fact that the municipalities, if it goes through the Stortinget gradually, get an annual assessment of how child protection is in their own municipality, will lead to an even greater involvement of local politicians, and not necessarily just employing more people in child protection, but perhaps an outpatient, environmental worker, family advisor or a health care professional, who will prevent anyone from getting under child protection at all. This is a situation that we follow closely. We have a lot of measures. That's why the answer remains on six sides, because we're committed to getting the best possible child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e1312	‘New curricula in all subjects through the renewal of the profession will require a faster exchange of educational material than normal. At the time of the launch of the Knowledge Lift, 400 million were granted. DKK to municipalities over three years in compensation for additional costs associated with the exchange of learning material. In the municipal bill, the government has not provided funds to ensure a faster exchange of learning material. When does the Council of State think teachers and students can expect them to use up-to-date teaching materials adapted to vocational renewal?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e1319	We're renewing the school's content through the renewal. The goal is that students learn more and learn better, and that we develop a school that prepares students to meet and shape the future. Professional renewal is the largest reform or renewal of the school since the promise of knowledge. The work on the renewal is well anchored in Skole-Norway, and many are well in the process of preparation. It is important that the new curricula also contribute to changing practices in classrooms. It will require good local preparation, skills development and new learning materials. Proposals for new curricula in primary and secondary education are now being consulted. The new curriculum introduces a new overall part, new professional content and new elements such as multidisciplinary themes and a new concept of competence. The new curricula shall be established by the Ministry of Knowledge in the autumn of 2019 and will be put into service from the autumn of 2020. Professional renewal shall be introduced over three years and the main emphasis of new curricula will be put into effect in the first year. It is primarily when curricula are to be used that it is time to go to the purchase of new learning material. The publishers and other producers of educational material are now assessing the drafts of new curricula, revising existing teachings and producing new learning materials. I have contributed to this from 2018 through the provision of funds for the development of digital learning material through the five-year initiative The technological school bag. In addition, each year we contribute to the development of teaching materials in subjects and disciplines where there is no basis for commercial development. In the revised national budget, we have increased the allocation of new and digital learning materials by a total of 50 million. kr. This should, of course, be used for teaching materials adapted to professional renewal. These funds are used to develop teaching materials in subjects and disciplines where there is no commercial basis for development, to develop learning materials in Sami and to stimulate the purchase of more digital learning material. In addition, I have redispatched further approximately 24 million. for the development of digital learning material. This means that a total of 70 million are added to the revised national budget. kr for teaching materials adapted to professional renewal. In the municipal bill for 2020, we write that the costs of the normal replacement of teaching material in municipalities and county municipalities are currently covered by the framework grant. When free secondary education was introduced in 2010, it was assumed that one third of the educational resources would normally be replaced each year. The counties were compensated accordingly. As I have previously indicated, inter alia: in the municipal proposition for 2020, we will assess the need for further compensation for any additional costs related to trade renewal in the ordinary budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e1342	I would like to thank you for the answer, and I also share the enthusiasm for the trade renewal and what it can contribute to the school. But once again, a prerequisite for this must be that one has the tools in place, and I think there were many who were surprised when they saw the conclusion to the government in the municipal proposition, and who expected that one would add to a purchasing system – just to ensure that there would be new teaching materials in place in 2020, when the new curricula, as I said, are to be applied to most of the class steps. What I am looking for from the Council of State is: what has changed, which means that the government is now coming to a completely different conclusion for the model of a choice in the renewal of the profession, up to what was done in the introduction of the promise of knowledge? Is it because one expects a lower rate of introduction, that one should spend several years buying new learning material? Is it primarily the digital thing that the Council of State was in? Or is it just that the Council of State has lost in the budget negotiations, so that there was no money for new teaching materials?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e1349	The answer to the last question is rather the opposite, precisely because, overall, in the revised national budget, we allocate over 70 million. kr extra in 2019 for new and digital learning materials. These funds are assumed to be involved in the preparation of the trade renewal, so that money is already on the table the year before the trade renewal takes place. Then it's not that money is allocated in the municipal bill. The funds are allocated in the annual budgets. That's why we have announced that we will come back to this and see what needs there is in the budget for next year. And as I was talking about, what's new is that for high school there was free education in 2010, and the county councils were compensated for that. Another big change is that you now go from paperbook and more to digital learning materials.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e1356	I think it is good that the Council of State does not close the door completely, and that one should continue to assess this. But it was an expectation, and in the municipal proposition this year, one should have figured out which model the government would choose, in order to ensure a faster phase-in of learning material. As the Council of State pointed out in a previous answer, we have little time if the teaching materials are both to be produced and purchased to be in place in a short year's time, when these new curricula are to be used. I had probably hoped and expected that the government had a model ready before, even if one should consider it at least. What I also understand is that the Council of State expects that a little bit of the reason for saving a little bit of money on phase-in is that a greater use should be made of digital learning material. It has a few small funds for it, but I would like to hear the Council of State's assessment of the extent to which the government expects it to be of digital learning material with the innovation, since one assumes that one should save so much money to avoid buying books.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e1363	It is possible that the representative and I have a slightly different view of what is small and large resources. Over 70 million. additional to new and digital learning resources in a revised national budget are not small resources. There are considerable additional resources, both for procurement and for development. For me, the last thing is also important, precisely because there are now two things happening at the same time: both trade renewal, which involves the renewal of the content of the subjects, and digital development, which means that more and more people are now switching to digital learning resources. Then it is important that we also stimulate the development of new learning resources. To what extent this will affect the need for extra money is something we are now considering towards next year's budget. In addition, we also expect municipalities to have reduced their purchases in the last years prior to trade renewal, and this also means that municipalities will have a greater room to buy books or digital learning resources from the autumn of 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e1373	‘Hallingdal is Norway’s main tourist region with enormous development potential — a district region dependent on active government policies to preserve and create new environments of competence. Will the government actively contribute to the maintenance and establishment of new state jobs in the Hallingdal region?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e1380	The government is committed to implementing a rural policy that provides growth, equivalent living conditions and sustainable regions throughout the country. The future is primarily ensured by job creation in private enterprises. The Government supports this with actions in the areas of competence, innovation, industrial development, infrastructure and through growth-enhancing tax incentives. At the same time, we see that state jobs contribute to more varied and stable labour markets. In the same way as the private sector is transforming and streamlining, so does the State, among others. through digitisation. That's positive, and we're not going to do that. At the same time, the government has ambitious targets for state localisation policy. The government has a clear goal of locating new public competences jobs across the country, including beyond the largest cities. For this reason, the government has moved so far and established around 860 jobs outside the Oslo labour market region, as part of this work. It's far more than the red-greens did when they crashed. Work on establishing and relocating state jobs out of Oslo's labour market region has also been established in the Granavolden platform. As a general rule, new jobs are to be set up outside Oslo, and we follow up the plan for localisation that was submitted in 2017. Another action now being taken is to ensure a more comprehensive overview and coordination of relocation, closure and creation of state jobs. In the event of structural changes, the government will ensure a continued good regional distribution of State competence jobs. The aim is to reduce negative overall impacts in some regions. It is also important to bear in mind that the decentralisation reform we are implementing in the regions will also lead to the relocation of work from the country and into the regions. In particular, this applies to the Road Administration of the State and to the Road Administration of the State. As Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, I have a coordinating responsibility for national policies, but it is still the sector principle that applies, and it is each State Council that is responsible for its underlying agencies. Many regions are concerned with the distribution of government jobs. It is positive that regions wish to contribute to the involvement and knowledge of developments in the regional labour market, which take precedence over the region, inter alia. in the form of a competence environment, training provision and other infrastructure. I feel that we have a good dialogue with the regional authorities, including Hallingdal. The government is primarily concerned with creating sustainable jobs in the private sector, and I note that unemployment, especially in District Norway, is lower than it has been in many years.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e1399	I hope the Minister of State is out listening to District Norway. Listening to the rapporteurs in Hallingdal, they are aware that they are experiencing enormous centralisation, that the income system is designed to force municipalities in the districts to merge, that the local services to provide security – such as the police – are being weakened, and that this goes beyond the very social foundation of Norway, that is, regardless of where you live and the size of the wallet, you must have good access to welfare services, which are, in turn, a prerequisite for business to establish itself in the districts. That is why my question is to the Council of State: Will she take the initiative to meet the municipalities in Hallingdals region to make a commitment plan for what kind of state jobs you have today, what to strengthen, and what to establish in the future? The reality of Hallingdal and many other districts is that while there have been 4 000 more state jobs here in Oslo, Hallingdals region has suffered a decline.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e1406	I will meet the rapporteurs at any time in Hallingdal. It's not that long since I met them. On my way to the LO cartel conference, I had a good meeting with the Hallingdal Regional Council. I feel that they are capable of highlighting Hallingdal's forces, have exciting plans for how to profile Hallingdal in the new Viking region, and that they have both expectations and aspirations for state jobs. I'm not going to make a plan for state jobs in Hallingdal, it's not up to me to do. It's not like we have one policy for Hallingdal, one for Arendal and one for Alta. We have one national policy for the relocation of state jobs. While this government has ambitions and moves out workplaces, the red-green did not do it, so the impatience that is now shown to this government shows a striking judgment over its own policies in that particular area. But we're going to move out jobs, we're going to set up jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e1411	Governments are wrong about what the red-green government did, but let's stick to Hallingdal. Had one had a municipal minister who would actually coordinate and be concrete, the municipalities would have a guarantee that there would be more policemen. At that time, there would be a guarantee of state aid to provide a decentralised nurse training so that a necessary and well-being offer could be made to the population. If you had listened to child protection, you'd have a satellite section of the State Children's House. A municipality that invests 100 million. kr in a warehouse, would know that there is an offer to be maintained and strengthened for the future – and one should not rage the traffic station at Gol, but rather use it to bet on more outdoor controls, because it has a strategic location in the east-west axis. This is what district policy is all about – having a government that will provide for the municipalities, listen to their needs and produce concrete results. But what I hear is that the Council of State does not want to take the initiative on the concrete examples I have now mentioned, to deliver in these areas to the regions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e1416	I am a little uncertain about what the representative asked for. I now feel that the representative wants the government to have its own government council in charge of the education sector, the justice sector, the transport sector – a number of sectors. It has never been established in any government, as far as I know. The sector principle exists. I think it'll do it in a red-green government, and it does it at least in this government. But we have taken action to have a greater degree of coordination. Then I want to say that the state is not the state, and the state is not going to be in the state. The state is digitizing. The state is streamlining. We have to do that. But what we see is that during this period the proportion of employees in the central government of the state has fallen, while we have increased the number of employees in Nav, in buffetat, in the police. These are businesses that are out there, that are decentralised, and that are where people are.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e1424	This question, from the representative Lise Christoffersen to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, will be raised by the representative Anne Sandum.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e1429	‘How does the Council of State and the Government see that the Viken County Municipality will be able to offer a full and good offer to the 1.2 million inhabitants of the county when the Viken County Municipality will start to have to reduce the budget by approx. a quarter of a billion dollars compared to what Akershus, Buskerud and Østfold counties have today?"
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e1434	The government is committed to providing the county municipalities with economic predictability when the regional reform is implemented. In the proposal for a new income system, we have therefore proposed compensation and transitional arrangements to ensure that there will be slight changes in revenue next year. These mechanisms provide stability in revenue, avoiding major adaptation problems in 2020. For the Vikings, we have estimated that the changes in the income system will result in a reduction in the framework grant of 57.5 million. kr when the compensation scheme is included. It's $49 per capita. In addition, we propose a transitional arrangement, so that the effect of the first year of the Week will be a reduction of about 14 million. kr, or 12 kr per capita. It's good within the county municipality can handle, and much less than the 250 million. Mr Christoffersen referred to. The county councils that become part of the Viking Empire had, in comparison, a budget of well over 12 billion. kr in revenue for 2018. I understand that it costs to make big organisational changes. The law of division requires the State to provide partial compensation for non-recurring costs relating to county and municipal mergers. When the Stortinget decided to merge the Nord- und Süd-Trøndelag, we proposed a standardised model to cover the costs of county mergers. The size joined this model, where it pays 15 million. kr per county for a bundling. The week has been paid 45 million. kr through this scheme and is thus the region which has received the largest grant for its process. I understand that a coup d'état is demanding and requires a great deal of effort from both employees and elected representatives. However, the reform also gives the county councils new opportunities. Fewer municipalities provide the basis for stronger regions that can provide better services and drive more coordinated social development. We have not proposed regional reform to save money, but in the long term, it is clear that bundling provides the basis for reducing costs and improving the efficiency of operations, perhaps especially in the administration. At the same time, the county authorities themselves have to assess both the costs and the gains of the choices they make, and it is a task I am sure that the counties are doing very well.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e1447	In the long term, over four years – the county municipalities must have four-year budgets – the payments to the county municipalities to be merged into the Viken county municipality will be reduced by 137.4 million from the government. kr. And they're going to be $45 million. kr that the Viking has received in connection with the reorganisation, in close enough. And then finally, 120 million. kr extra from the three counties in order to carry out what needs to be done in this reorganisation. So 250 million. kr is probably not to take in. 250 million. kr is a lot of money even if you have a budget of 12 billion. kr. 250 million. kr is 300 lecturers – it's all the teachers at the Drammen secondary school multiplied by two. There's all the school kisses in Akershus plus a little bit more. [[The President clubs.]] Does this mean that the Council of State believes that the Viking must cut the offer?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e1454	The President is asking for respect for speaking time. You have one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e1459	Very short: I don't know what the number is. I have quite carefully explained that the Week next year is going to reduce its operation with, is about 14 million. kr, in a budget of more than 12 billion. kr. That's $12 per capita. I believe it is far within what the Week can handle. Looking at changes in demographics, the Week, like other regions, keeps income despite a sharp decline in demographics, i.e. expenditure on 16-18 year-olds. So this I mean is completely manageable. With regard to the choices made by the different regions, in terms of organisational changes, rental costs and placements, I do not interfere. I have full confidence that the Week and the others will make the choices that are right for the different regions, and take responsibility for the revenue and expenditure that they are charged on that occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e1466	The fold – like all the other county municipalities – will take over tasks from the State Road Administration. The Week has calculated that they will need 350 employees from the Road Service. The Road Service believes that the number is 300 – a question about 50 people. When it comes to how the government sees it to be financed, it will be financed by the fact that the money follows the person, and the person can choose whether to go to the county or not. If 150 of the Vegvesen people want to go over to the Viking Bay, there's a minimum of 150 for which there's no funding. In addition to other new tasks that the government believes should be financed through the framework. I ask again, is the Viken going to cut the secondary school offer and the public transport?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e1473	You have to address that question to the Viking politicians. Those responsible for the Gulf are those who take responsibility, and they are those who adopt budgets. In the case of changes related to joint road administration, they are now in progress. The feedback I have received from both the Minister of Transport and the counties is that there are good negotiations and good processes. Today, we have a pool of people carrying out tasks in the state road system. These tasks are to be transferred to the states, but we cannot have a situation where the states say no to the people and yes thanks to the problems and the money. So we've arranged ourselves a little bit differently than we do with some other problems. But the state should not be left with a surplus on that occasion. The money has to follow the tasks, and people have to follow the tasks. I am confident that good solutions will be found in each region.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e1486	This question, from the representative Geir Inge Lien to the Minister for Industry, has been transferred to the Minister for Climate and Environment, who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e1491	‘Sediment analyses are now being carried out at the sites. In some counties, it is set up for smooth and constructive processes, but in my home state, the yards are severely affected by how this has been put up by the County Council. There is a risk that several shipyards will have major problems dealing with expenditure. Does the Council of State consider it acceptable that the paint industry in some counties, such as More and Romesdal, is subject to unmanageable costs in this process when it has been found that other counties are adding up to a completely different implementation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e1498	For a long time there has been work on cleaning up contaminated seabeds in Norway. The main principle of the work is that the polluter is responsible for cleaning up the pollution and for paying for the cleaning. The counties follow up a list of approximately 100 shipyard locations which are prioritised according to the pollution situation. In order to ensure a coherent follow-up of work, the Environment Directorate has regular contacts with the county councillors. This work is one of the highest priority disciplines in the mandate of the county councillors. The County of More and Romsdal follow up on 17 priority shipyard sites and are located in Norway with the highest priority yards. The County of More and Romesdal have instructed most of the yards to carry out supplementary surveys and plan of measures to clean up the seabed. This is an important part of the work to identify the pollution status of the seabed at the sites and to assess the necessary measures. Good ex ante monitoring will also ensure cost-effective measures. Since the start of the work, the county council has had dialogue with the local authorities on the way and participated in meetings. The counties have been present to the courts in respect of time-limits for replying to both notices and notices, and have, upon application, given the courts several months in time-limits for replying to notices and for promoting any appeals against notices. The work of the County of More and Romesdal on shipyards is in line with the national work on clean-up at priority shipyards and the assignment given to the State in the year’s letter of allocation. Shipyards located in the priority areas of other counties, which have been completely cleared, have financed the clearance of their responsibilities. Variations between the different counties and between the different counties in the individual counties are mainly related to the progress of the clean-up work and not to the financial responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e1507	It is true that the State has been told by the government to follow up the measures that need to be taken, while the Authority believes that an evaluation must be completed and placed as a basic document. Can the State Council now accept from the Authority the requirement that such an evaluation be completed before action is taken? And how can the Verts be charged with new costly investigations before one has been surveyed whether all the actions carried out have had any effect?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e1512	There are two slightly different issues, because the evaluation that we are going to carry out is under way, and it is outsourced to an external consultant from the Environment Directorate. But it's true in those areas that have had a clean-up, and that's a little different. Where it's been area cleanup, like in Oslo, Tromsø, Harstad, Trondheim, Sandefjord and Puddefjord, it should be an evaluation, but there's a slightly different situation. But also in those areas, if one has known the polluter, they have been involved in financing in those areas. So the work that goes on cleaning up around the yard, will go on with the County State, and the contact that the yards must have with the County State in the further process.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e1517	Verfta has been there for generations. It is a yard that has been playing there for a hundred years and operates in boat construction. They have been given the green light for the operation, and the state has always approved the products that have been used, but which have been banned for environmental reasons in recent times. This is a huge burden, and as far as I know, it is also other than the yard that is responsible for pollution. This is a huge burden on the yard and a very uncertain one in terms of economics. It is expensive, expensive, and will also be able – as I said introductoryly – to beat your feet away from a part of the yard. They don't have the ability to bear the costs they're charged for this, compared to other places in the state where one has been more flexible. Will the Council of State be able to take on part of the cost, or the entire bill, which is now charged, as we see that it is the state that has given green light for the funds that have been used, but which are now forbidden?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e1524	There is nothing different from that of other industries which were previously significant sources of pollution but which have been subject to stricter requirements and subsequently cleaned up. Here it's been a contamination, it's contaminated sediments, and you need a clean-up. We assume, as for some areas in Oslo and those I mentioned, where there is a known polluter, that they are also involved and pay for their responsibility – even if the state also goes into where there is no known polluter. If others can also be the source of pollution, it is part of what needs to be monitored during the process we are now in – whether more people are responsible for the clean-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e1532	I would like to ask the Minister for Employment and Social Affairs the following questions: «During the process of reporting. St. 30 [[2015-2016]] How does the Council of State view the situation in this area today and how does the government work on the follow-up to the decision?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e1541	The government's response to a Worker's Party Document 8 proposal from spring 2018 shows that today's legislation is clear that Nav can stop benefits for people who refuse to accept work or work-oriented measures for religious or ideological reasons. The Directorate of Labour and Welfare has informed the Ministry that they believe today's guidelines provide clear and clear leadership. This can be seen, for example: in a round-table daily allowance that there is no reasonable reason to refuse to receive a job offer if this is justified by the fact that an adapted employment contract is not compatible with belief, desire or outlook. The Directorate has received feedback from some supervisors at the Nav Office who may find it difficult to face a situation of guidance or to defend the closure of benefits. This is therefore a issue addressed in the central training programme of the Working and Welfare Act, such as: contains a immersion module in cross-cultural guidance. But this is not because the legislation is unclear or unknown. I have not received any reports from the Employment and Welfare Directorate indicating that this is a major challenge. I can assure the representative that the government insists that people cannot readily turn down work or activity for religious or ideological reasons without risking public support being deprived of them or being reduced. The government also works, for example: through the integration strategy, to support the entry into service of immigrants, by stimulating work and making demands.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e1552	I thank you for your answer. I think that is a cause for concern. In particular, women with a background from countries where there is a significant element of Islamic fundamentalism, i.e. women with a background from countries such as Somalia, Pakistan, Iraq, Afghanistan and some other countries, stand out with high unemployment. Then we have to think about what might be possible reasons. Local Nav leaders took this up, among others. in reports in the media, before it was taken up here in the Stortinget in 2016, and considered that the practice in this field was not good enough. When I asked them who work at the local Nav office if anything has happened since the decision in 2016, if they have received any new messages, new courses, schooling, etc., the people I have talked to have not registered it. That's what's behind the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e1559	It is difficult to assess how it is taught at each Nav office, but what is at least important to underline is that there is no regulatory problem in this context. You have the full opportunity to stop benefits on this basis, and that it should be possible to do so, I believe is also right. Then I also record in the feedback from the directorate that there may be some supervisors who find it difficult to stand in that situation, for perhaps a little different reasons. It is important for each Nav office to address it if they themselves feel that it is difficult. It is important that they put it on the agenda in their own organisation and ensure that you receive the training required and that you are safeguarded in the situation when you have to stop performance. There may be various reasons why unemployment is high among the immigrant population. There may be competence, language, knowledge of the labour market and such, but it is a pleasure to see unemployment now falling, including among immigrants.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e1566	Now I didn't mean in general among immigrants. I meant the special women with a background from the countries where Islamist fundamentalism is so absolute. But I would like to ask, in an additional question, whether we should not focus on this, not only on the course of Nav staff, but also in the introduction program for those who come to the country, and in the work training course, the course of action, which Nav has. I have previously seen a course where there have been women alone, i.e. women and men separated, where there have been women who have not been able to look at men, etc. One should address those issues very explicitly in these work training courses, so that they prepare for it before going to work or action, and build an attitude towards it from the start.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e1571	I fully agree with the representative of Bohemia that it is important that immigrants generally get to work, not least that women who may be kept at home for cultural reasons are definitely given help to become self-sustaining. As I mentioned in my main response, reforming the introduction system – it has been too poor in many areas – is now working and the work line is particularly focused on changing it. The introduction system is elsewhere under another department, so I'm not quite sure how far you've got in this. We have also had a job in the area of freedom of conscience in the workplace, to look at how to deal with that kind of issue. But the government's line is completely stuck. It shall not be possible to say no to work for religious or ideological reasons. It is important that that legislation is clear. At the same time, it is important that Nav ensure that those of the staff who find this difficult to enforce get the help they need.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e1581	The question is: ‘Government cuts 180 million. the costs of racial protection of roads in the revised national budget, even if the state road network is ready for new projects. Sia 2011 has racial protection of E16 Kvamskleiva had first priority in the East Region. 10 May fell rocks larger than car wheels into the road on the route. On 13 May, children's parents acted against the school kiss, which passes every day of the week. Must life be lost before the government will prioritize racial security, or does not the council understand the fear of the local population for life and health when they have to pass the Quamskleiva?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e1590	I understand very well the dreaded people feel when they live in a razed area. I'm from such a region myself. It's sometimes the life of a loan, feeling one, when one gets into the car. I understand very well illiterately to very many other places in the country that have this as their everyday life. At the same time, the adjustments in this revised national budget are a adaptation to the actual need for projects already started. This does not prevent you from launching new projects later, in connection with the regular budgets, but this is a change to the permissions required by the projects that have already been started. The Government is adding a base to the National Transport Plan. In the Storting National Transport Plan Decision, E16quamskleiva is located in the second period of NTP. We are now well in the process of stepping up racial protection work – because this government has prioritised it very high. Both this and the stepping up of the county roads have been important to us, so that racial protection can take place both on the national roads and on the county road network. Now we are in the loop that we have started up all the projects that were in the first period of NTP, which extend until 2022. That means there will be room in the budget for later years – if we can continue this escalation – to look at new projects where racial protection is required. This is not, in fact, a great basis for a major political dispute. We're for racial protection, just like the Center Party. In addition, we allow money to do that. We are well in line with the projects that the Storting prioritised the highest. So I hope we can keep pace with the road construction in Norway, and keep pace with the race protection, in a way that makes it more and more new.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e1603	The seriousness is here and now. On 13 May school buses were emptied for students. The fear of rockgrass in Quamskleiva reached national news. On 14 May, the Ministry of Transport wanted to discuss immediate measures. The state road system operates evenly. We have no time to lose, no life to lose. The road is essential for residents to and from work or school, for people on transit, for local and national as well as international business transport and for people's jobs. The Norwegian Freight Car Association is concerned about the speed with which the normal situation is restored, in particular on E16, where all trucks arrive every winter, when other mountain crossings are closed or have columnised. The recovery plan is ready. Eleven turns that prevent modular trains, inter alia, will be removed. What does the Council of State say to those who depend on Quamskleiva to get where they're going? When will the Council of State make the road reliable for truck drivers and children’s families — and not push other parts of the NTP ahead?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e1612	The last thing I do is respond to. It should be noted that the government did not follow the decisions taken by Stortinget. If we hadn't, the representative from the Center Party would have reason to criticize me. Following up what the Storting has agreed, I assume that the representative was not willing to criticise. Having said that, I understand very well – as I said – the frustration that many people feel because the repair of the road network is not coming quickly enough. But the recovery is faster than ever before, because this government has invested in the transport sector that no government has done before us, which means that the level of investment in operation and maintenance of the Norwegian name has increased by 75 pst. since 2013. It's also the first thing that gives hope to those who now have their projects a little further in the order of priority set by the Storting. To them is the answer: Fatt against, this government will continue to build infrastructure throughout the country even in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e1619	Then the ambition level must be to get Quamskleiva into the first part of NTP. The Swedish Road Administration has a construction organisation in Bakn that is ready to start work in Kvamskleiva as soon as they are finished in Bakn. Moving a locally anchored builder a relatively short distance will bring benefits for the implementation of the project and save a lot of money – rather than moving the site completely out and possibly back into the valley at a later stage. In these days a document has been updated that can give start-up within three months. But plans are fresher. If the project is not started within a reasonable time, the installation must be rigged. Plans need to be updated, at the cost it has, in three to five years. Building now will support the desire of the Council of State to put in place whole sections of road rather than building piece by piece and division. This is rational. If the Council of State is to become the whole of road users – the road users who travel here – he can contribute more money to the racial protection of Quamskleiva in the revised national budget this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e1630	It is very rare for me to decide whether I can be entirely or not. It's hard to refuse, I just have to stick with it. The situation is, however, that it has not been given that there are the entrepreneurs who are already in an area, who get the next offer. I am similar to the representative who is busy that we are going to act as rationally as possible, so that we keep the costs of the projects down and get the most possible for each crown that is licensed. This means that what is needed to succeed in further escalation of racial protection is that the government continues its work of escalating. We have come quite a long way – compared to the frameworks initially laid down in the National Transport Plan – in that escalation. It is a pity that more and more new projects will experience racial protection around them. It is important both for the transport of food and, not least, for all those who live along a road that they, for all reasons, feel is too unsafe in too many cases in a year.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e1642	‘Elverum traffic station was opened in 2015. On 20 May, the shock message came that it was proposed to be closed from 2021. If this happens, a whole region loses its vehicle service and driving training. People from the south-east valley get up to several hours of travel to Hamar, even for simple things like renewing driving licences or picking up probation signs. Many jobs are related to cars, and Norway’s largest road safety centre is located in the neighbouring municipality of Våler. Does the Council of State consider it important for Elverum to maintain the traffic station?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e1649	I see that it is important – not only for the inhabitants of the Østerdalen, but in all parts of the country – that we are able to succeed in the great transformation work that is now taking place in the State Road Service. In some areas it's about making the offer more decentralised, in other words moving it from the traffic station and all the way into the house to people, simply because we're digitizing the services. It's the most decentralised supply we can give – if people don't travel at all and can fix many of the problems they have, in dealing with the public directly from the PC home, there's a decentralization reform in it. Then I am busy that the proposal that came from the State Road Administration on 20 May, and to which I have not yet taken the final position, has some questions about how a suggestion that users of the services feel that there is good supply near them. It may simply be that if you have to pass a driving test, for example, it may be easier to move a sensor than to move anyone to run it. As a result, in my assignment to the State Road Service – if they change the structure – I have asked them to look at the kind of compensatory measures that can be implemented to keep users of the services around the country. We are now reviewing this report by the State Road Administration – this proposal that they have made. This means that I have not concluded that it is what they have proposed. However, we are now going through that work in depth, and we are also assessing whether they have responded adequately to the mission they received, related to compensatory measures and whether the location is in line with the national leadership, such as those in question. for the location of state workplaces. In sum, it means that I have no final conclusion on this, but I think it's legitimate that anyone who experiences discussions around the offer is committed to keeping a best possible user offer as close as possible. And that's essentially what this is all about, because we're going to digitize a lot of the solutions you're going to have to face up to today at the traffic station to get.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e1658	If traffic stations are to be closed down throughout the country, people will have to go further in order to get help. It costs more in both money and time, and that's a lot of time you have to take off your own working hours, because the traffic station is usually open while people are at work. And not everyone has the opportunity to use digital offerings, for example. older people, who would like to be able to meet up and talk to a natural person. It's not all suitable for the Internet either. For example, it's hard to run up from a computer at home, and it's hard to prevent cheating on the theory test if you're going to take it on your own PC. Authorised National Association of Traffic Schools, ATL, has calculated what the cost will be for users. For Elverum's part, it is stated that the savings at the end of the day will be NOK 170000. The ATL has estimated that the increased cost to users is more than 5 million. kr. There's a difference of over 3 million. kr there. Does the Council of State consider it appropriate to transfer the bill from the country to private individuals and users, who have to pay more to use the services when they are centralised?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e1663	I'm actually going to go to the right a little bit with the Center Party, to put down traffic stations, for example. in Hedmark, they have good experience with. After all, they did so in Hamar, when they were in government. It sounds like they've forgotten about it now. I think a lot of the arguments the representative uses could have been used against the change they made then. But let's not stay in the past. I've said that what we're now looking at from our side is if the State Road Service has found adequate solutions that will prevent us from moving those who are going to run up, but instead move the sensor. That kind of assessment we're now going to make. It means that no conclusion is drawn. I basically agree with the representative that the most important thing about public services is that they are available to the inhabitants. Digitisation will solve a lot of it, and other solutions, such as: the sensor moves, can solve other parts of it. Then it is strictly taken not the office building that is the most important.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e1672	It's suggested closures not only at Elverum, but throughout the country, as part of a major reorganisation in the Road Administration. Now you want to centralize the traffic stations, halve the number of places you can take the note, and that gives the population a lower offer. And as in most other centralisation projects the government has carried out, the argument from the Road Administration is also this time that we need stronger environments of competence, which will provide better quality and improve road safety. Then my question to the Council of State is: how is the competence and quality of the traffic stations so poor today that they cannot be maintained?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e1677	These answers will be given when I take a position on the proposal submitted by the Swedish Road Administration. I haven't done that yet, and it should have pleased the representative, because that means that there is hope for more assessments of how we contribute to the best possible supply for the inhabitants. But it's not right that we, for example, bisects the number of service locations. We go from 74 to 52 in the proposal from the State Road Administration by several of them is part of the offer that is being changed. But we don't have a final position on this. What is happening in the state road system now, in the proposal they have made, is to a large extent ensuring that the state road system is still in place throughout the country, both by moving at the top of 1,800 annual works to the new regions, and by proposing to move new 270 year works out of Oslo. There are very few changes we have seen in the last 25 years where the etats themselves suggest it. There's evidence that we're doing a good job moving out of jobs, not centralizing them in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e1687	‘The Executive Board of the Nordic University has decided to send the Vice-Chancellor’s proposal for a new structure of study places to be consulted on 15 June. One element of the debate is the search for the various study places. We have been made aware that, despite good search, we are planning zero admissions for several studies, including in Steinkjer. Can the Council of State confirm this, and what does she think that such a de facto closure of study services is planned in the middle of a consultation she herself has said is crucial?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e1694	It is quite right, as the representative says, that the Nordic University has decided in 2019 that students, i.e. zero admissions, should not be admitted to some education. Among them is the master's degree in journalism and communication and Bachelor's degree in 3D art and in game and experience technology. The master's degree in journalism is in Bodø, the other ones I mentioned are in Steinkjer. Zero recordings are not the same as the closure of studies or education. There may be several reasons why a university or college has zero records. One reason might be that there are too few applicants for education, so it is not sustainable for the university to offer it. Another reason could be that the university is working to strengthen the professional environment to provide education, for example: by recruiting professionals. There is something that can take time, and in the period until the right people are employed to teach, the university can decide not to include new students. The Ministry has been in contact with the Nordic University, which informs me that this is the case with the education I have just mentioned. A third reason might be that the university will carry out a major review of the study programme, and that it would not be right to bring students up to an education that will undergo major changes. Nord University informs us that there is no basis for considering this zero admission as a liquidation of the study offer. Nord University is implementing a number of measures to strengthen education and research, and they have informed that these zero recordings are part of it. At other times, Nord University has also used zero recordings to provide space for the development and strengthening of the study programmes. In general, I think it is important that all universities and colleges reflect on the education they provide, ensure that they are of sufficiently high quality, and make the changes necessary to adapt to the needs of students and society. Zero uptake can be an instrument, and it is also used by other universities and colleges, regardless of discussions on locational structure. As I said, Nord University has stated that there is no link between the proposal for the study structure currently being consulted and the zero recordings to which the representative may refer. I assume that the board evaluates the study location structure and the recordings that come in connection with the hearing that is now out, regardless of the zero recordings that they have now decided to have.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e1711	I have come to understand that this concerns several study services in media technology and media, that it also applies to studies in geography and sociology in Steinkjer, and that the reason for this is often linked to weak applicants. It's kind of funny about sociology, because sociology doesn't have high candidates at Nord universitet, but they're higher in Steinkjer than in Bodø, and then it's a little weird that you're going to use it as a reason to have a zero in Steinkjer. Sense if this does not have a direct connection, it is easy to interpret it there that this is the beginning of a guided winding-up of study offerings in Steinkjer, which one has intended to move to either Levanger, Stjørdal or Bodø. I wish the Council of State could have assured us that this is not the case, and that she assumes that the board does not take it into consideration when they go through the hearing note from the principal, but looks quite freely and exploited at it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e1718	I base and assume that the board takes its decision after a careful assessment and after the actors have made their contributions to the hearing that is now out, and that this is not a decisive part of the board's decision, which I believe must be taken on the basis of other things. In the case of different studies mentioned by the representative, it is not reported to the department when it is zero. Some recordings are done through Coordinate recording, and some are local. Zero recordings can be determined at different administrative levels; sometimes the board is informed. So if the representative has questions about concrete education, we can figure it out, but then we have to contact Nord University, because there's no information coming to the department. But it's quite right, as the representative also says, that on the education I mentioned myself, we see that it's not the candidate figures that are the reason, because the candidate figures are roughly similar to what they did in the second year of their admission.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e1727	The process in which North University is involved is very important, and the consultation process in the regional business community and many regional actors are very serious. They would like the consultation process to be important. It is clear that you get a little worried if this is how the dean should be able to manage the study offer and do what they want, regardless of the consultation process that is going on. In this way, I am so pleased that the Council of State today says that this should have no connection. I hope that Nord University will notice that, because also representatives of the government parties have strongly criticised the Vice-Chancellor's proposal here and said that they assume that the board will come back with a renewed and amended assessment of it. Is that an attitude shared by the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e1734	I certainly believe that I have a good board, a board that is able to assess not only the seriousness of the matter, but also the content of the matter when it comes to the study location structure. I perceive that the actors who are now turning and making their hearing recordings are working hard, they are going to work and argue for their views. I'm absolutely sure we're going to get a lot of good hearings for the open hearing that's now out. I also believe that I have a board that is able to see the shades that the representative brings up here. They're able to see the candidate numbers that are there. But it's not possible to get under the chair that the university has had problems recruiting employees for some of these studies, and that's also something they need to work on. I am concerned that the hearing we have now must go its own way. Now the actors have to make their views known, and then the board has to make a decision based on the total and the whole of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e1741	Then the ordinary question mark is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-29.ana.ud211e1755	There is no record. As a result, the cases on today's map have been completed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
