ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e28	The representative Eirik Sivertsen, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat. In its letter of 14 November 2019, the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee requested two hearings to be held on one day of the Grand Meeting, i.e.: Tuesday, January 14, 2020. This means that the second sentence of the third paragraph of Section 27 of the Rules of Procedure must be waived. The President proposes that the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee be met and that, in accordance with Section 79 of the Rules of Procedure, the Storting should accept that provision of the Rules of Procedure be waived. Is there any objection to this? – It does not seem so, and it is considered adopted. The representative, Mr Aasrud, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e42	On behalf of the representatives of Arild Grande, Elise Bjørnebeck-Waaagen, Lise Christoffersen and myself, I will present a proposal for a derogation from the Swedish Social Security Act § 4-10 on extended waiting time for daily allowance for victims of trafficking in human beings and labour crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e47	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e63	On Monday the Stortinget received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State Jan Tore Sanner, Frank Bakke-Jensen and Iselin Nybø will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Anniken Huitfeldt.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e72	My question goes to the Minister of Defence. Now the defense gets new surveillance planes, fighter planes and submarines. Some parties have been opposed, but the broad majority of the Storting is for these investments. It is good to have broad agreement on important defence investments, and it is important that the defence is more present in the north. We're going to have real maritime safety policy, and then we have to be there. Therefore, it is very difficult to understand why the Minister of Defense insists on building down the Army in the inner Troms. Today we have 600 standing soldiers in what is called the Second Army Battalion in Inner Troms. This army, this battalion, will turn the Minister of Defense into a summons army. The defense's alert times are getting shorter. Then we need soldiers who are actually there, who are present and ready for action. The Secretary of Defense will turn the 2nd Battalion into a force of former guardians, and whether they are studying in the United States or on an oil platform, they must be called if anything happens. The Chief of Defence warns against implementing the Minister of Defence's plan. Nor does the Minister of Defence have a decision in Stortinget that gives him any right whatsoever to build down the Army. A unanimous control committee, including representatives from the Right and the other government parties, stated in May on the government’s power to convert the 2nd battalion into a convocational force: ‘The committee cannot find such authority documented.’ Why does the Minister for Defence disagree with a unanimous control committee?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e85	Converting the 2nd battalion to a mechanized battalion, but also to a mobilization battalion, has been decided on in the land power proposition we delivered in 2016. The decision says that the conversion should start from 2021. The reasons for that decision are several. Deb one is that when we build up the land force in the Defense and have more personnel, we are also dependent on building mobilization defenses, that we have reserves – reserveists among the officers and also among those who have been in the initial service and can step up and mannify our forces. To the term "calling battalion": No, we build a defense that we have also trained personnel, and then they are on the reserve list and should be able to be available if we need them. That's why we have repetition exercises, that's why we practice regularly. The model of the 2nd Battalion, where we have longer first-time services for some of the kids, and then they're going to go in and practice regularly for the years after, is to build a mobilization defense that stands out if we need it. So to the question of whether we have the authority: Well, we have the authority, because the decision in the Stortinge suggests that we can do this. But we are also – everyone knows – within a process with the next long-term plan. The next long-term plan will be adopted in the Storting long before 1 January 2021, when the change of the 2nd Battalion will begin. In the professional-military council of the Chief of Defense, he is clear that today he needs more crew, today he needs more standing forces. We're dealing with the part of the work we're doing with the long-term plan now, and we'll see in the spring what happens when we get to the Stortinget with proposals for the next long-term plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e94	I don't understand why the Minister of Defense is standing here talking nonsense about what has been adopted in Stortinget. We had land power negotiations in the autumn of 2017 – no decisions. What decision is the Minister for Defence here referring to? There is no such decision, and the Committee on Control disagrees entirely with what the Minister of Defence says. Here we have a Minister of Defence who speaks out against what he has the authority to do, in Stortinget, and against a unanimous committee of control. During the last week, the government has provided for the lifting of wide-ranging decisions on fighting vehicles. They lifted it, and it was also part of what was adopted in Stortinget in the autumn of 2017. Even in the case of Army helicopters, the government breaks with the Storting's decisions and assumptions. No Bell helicopters were to be moved until alternative capacity was in place at Bardufoss, the bulk of the population was fixed in 2016. Why is the Army's helicopter removed in the north before alternative capacity is in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e101	This is not a proper description of the situation. In the case of 2nd Battalion, I have explained which decisions apply. That's also how we haven't started the construction of the 2nd battalion. It's going to happen in 2021. So it's set up now, it's going to be set up by 2020, and there's going to be a long-term plan in 2020 where we look at it. In the case of helicopters, the decision is that we have to have a shared solution to meet our obligations to justice in the north, and at the same time there must be a management element at Bardufoss. All of those things we're fulfilling. Then I have to be allowed to file that the reason we're moving Bell to Back is that the special forces are going to rebuild a counter-terror capacity – an element that is called for as early as the Gjørv report after July 22nd. We need that capacity in a more hybrid conflict picture, like what we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e110	It opens for follow-up questions – first Anniken Huitfeldt.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e115	I know very well what the Storting has decided on helicopter capacity. Nothing was to be moved until the alternative capacity was in place, and it is not present. So it is the Council of State that breaks down its decision. When we talked about these helicopters, the council said to TV2 earlier this year that this was an old decision. So this was a decision that the Storing made that would apply to the entire four-year period. So the Minister of Defense alternately ignores, breaks and proposes to lift the vast majority of the population of defence. Why should we believe in an invitation to cooperation on defence when the Minister of Defense himself calls concluded agreements for the old halfway into the period for which it is agreed to apply, and goes in order to lift decisions on tanks to the Army and stop in government cut plans for the Army in North Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e124	What we're learning from this is that we have to be thorough when we read the equations, so that we're absolutely sure that everyone has the same understanding of what the equations mean. We also learn that we should read the decisions made in Stortinget. The way in which Huitfeldt's representative refers to the decisions is not correct in my opinion. We have an understanding that there should be a shared solution between Bardufoss and Rygge. We have an understanding that the special forces were to build up a counter-terrorism capacity. We have an understanding that there should be available capacity in the north that covered up for justice, and that had available capacity for the Army. And there was supposed to be a management element on Bardufoss. We've fulfilled all of these things. Then I must be allowed to file that it is strange to ignore the need to rebuild the anti-terrorism capacity of the special forces. So it's described by the head of defense, and it's written in the Gjørv Commission. And when I meet the representatives of the Workers' Party in Eastfold, they are quite clear that this is an important requirement that has been met. That's what we're fulfilling with this change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e133	Ingvild Kjerkol – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e138	The defence Bell helicopters have been invaluable in the situation that has arisen in the short-range network failure air ambulance service. At first it was the readiness in May/June to come back in 2018, when the situation was challenging for the previous operator. Then the Bell helicopters were rapidly operational. In July of this year, the Defense established a temporary base in the Church to assist the health care system. It was extended. In November, a temporary base was established again, and this morning the Minister of Health said at his press conference that this mission would last until February. Helicopters are well equipped for ambulance missions, and in a situation of air ambulance failure on the short-range network, it means increasing safety and security for people along the coast, perhaps in Båtsfjord. When the Minister of Health responds to this, he says that the overall preparedness is good. But will total preparedness be good when the helicopters move south?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e144	I'm asking for respect for the fact that I can't comment on the ambulance case and the defense's grant to the helicopter, simply because my beloved wife, Hilde Zurlv, is adm. Director of Babcock. I was early out there notifying that I had to have a set-up council, and it is Monica Meland who is the set-up council for these questions. At the same time, I am very happy that I can get to say this in Stortingen, because I think it is important in these issues, which are difficult, that we also show that we have a stability code, that it is completely possible to avoid contact with such matters. This has been a very complicated matter to communicate in the north, and the fact that you have the opportunity to leave, means that we who have escorts must not tell them that they will have to stop working because you intend to become a councillor. The question is probably good, but it must be addressed to Monica Meland, who is the Council of State for these matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e151	Ingvild Kjerkol – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e156	It's great that the council has a beloved wife. I also have a beloved man. He's driving with car glass. It is several times more transparent when you are a staging representative. My question is about the responsibilities of the Council of State in relation to the Bell helicopters, because there were also preparedness challenges with the previous operator, and there is no government council in any way involved. The reality is that the Council of State shares responsibility for overall preparedness with its colleagues in several departments related to it, and it will be weakened if future challenges are experienced in this service, regardless of who the operator is and to whom the director of the operator is married. Is it not true that for the people on the coast of eastern Finland, total preparedness will be weakened when the helicopters are moved south?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e165	The example of car glass is very good, because we want transparency in this kind of process. This government has been working to implement what is called the aid directive. That is, if some state agency needs assistance from the Defense, they will contact the Defence Operational Headquarters. They then have the authority to decide whether one can hold with capacity, whether it is helicopter, wheel loader, boat or what it should be like the Defense has available – or crew, for that matter. If that enquiry is assessed by the Armed Forces Operational Headquarters to go beyond the preparedness provided by the Defence Force, it will be raised to political level. I think we have a very good system to assess whether it is possible for the defence to assist civil society through that aid instruction, because the Defence Operational Headquarters has all the capabilities, they have the big overview, and it is they who will then assess it. So if you see here that you don't have the capacity, and then if there's a car dealer going in, you can have to put a seat-state council on those things.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e174	Cecilie Myrseth – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e179	The Minister can only stand still. The Bell helicopters mentioned have an additional dimension in North Norway as well as the most important thing, which is, of course, that they have to be a capacity for the Army. They have an additional dimension for civil society that is very important, not least in the part of our part of the country which the minister himself represents, as we have seen this winter. When you made a deal – which you can have many different opinions about, I do too – they also said that it should not have been carried out a transfer of the Bell helicopters until the alternative capacity was in place. My question to the Minister is: What alternative capacity is now in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e186	We're fulfilling the defence obligation, and it's assisting the justice sector with helicopter capacity. It is covered by the presence of two Bell helicopters available for that part. It's not like we've moved something that goes beyond the missions you have on behalf of the civil sector, and it's a mission that was known when we made these decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e191	Cecilie Myrseth – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e196	My question was which alternative capacity is in place. The minister couldn't answer that, so then I'm going to try to ask very simply one more time, but in a slightly different way. Is it such that helicopters – Bell helicopters – have moved from Bardufoss before alternative capacity is in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e201	That's how many Bell helicopters are available at Bardufoss to fulfill the mission you have for the justice sector. The police have the transport capacity with helicopters they need, and it's the defense that carries it out.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e206	Live Signe Navarsete – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e212	The decision to move Bell 412 from Bardufoss to Rygge stands as an unintelligible and completely irresponsible act, and it weakens preparedness in the north significantly. It has given security in the north to know that two standby Bell 412 has been at Bardufoss, ready for action. They have been useful, as we have said here, many times. What's the interesting question here is, should there still be two ready-to-use Bell standing at Bardufoss, ready for action 24/7, as it has been? How many hours of flight will the remaining helicopters have at their disposal for the Army? I assume that the Council of State has control over when one makes such extensive and profound changes as moving the Bell helicopter to the south.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e217	I just answered that with the helicopters. Two helicopters must therefore be available for the justice sector until alternative capacity is in place. If we're going to be concerned about preparedness, we can't ignore the fact that today we have a crisis and conflict picture that's quite different from what we saw 10 to 15 years ago. There are many examples from the countries around us, where terrorist attacks in several places at the same time have stressed the capacities that you have, including in larger nations. Germany is the last example. It is in this crisis situation that the head of defence, who is my professional military adviser, has said that we need a counter-terrorism capacity of the special forces that can be moved quickly around where it is needed. That's why the special forces are rehearsing this capacity with Bell helicopters, because that's the helicopters we have. Helicopters are a limited resource today because of personnel, but we use them as best we can, according to the professional military advice we get. And then we do the problems we've promised to do in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e224	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e229	There will be a lot of trim today, especially for those of us who have walked around the Christmas tree before today. My question is also addressed to the Minister of Defence. The central party has warned against the government and the Workers' Party has decided to shut down Andeya Air Station, which is a historical miscarriage. According to the government, the investment costs for the new base were to raise to 3.5 billion. kr, not for the P8 fly, but collect. It's already clear that it's almost 1 billion. kr more. Now it's known that the delay in work on Evenes means that the phase-in of the new P8 aircraft has to happen somewhere else, that the base of Evenes can't be used for this. There are several bases, including: Bodø, Andøya and Gardermoen. To the same thing as the Allied Reception Report, which never came from the government, has decided whether each phase-in of P8 aircraft is going to happen, taking time. It is known that the views on the bases have been made quite a long time ago. I also know that there are others happening in the sea, among other things. drives on and moves around on a hangar. We know that it is not clear how to store ammunition. There is a lot that is not clear, and it will increase costs and delays at Evenes. Then the question arises as to how to resolve the situation in the future. Of course, when you've invested 30 billion. On the Seconds, it's a little strange to think that one should only use a few billion to get a corresponding base on the Evenes, even if it's been a long time since the funds were put in for the Andes. My question to the Minister of Defence is: does the Council of State think that the phase-in of the new P8 surveillance fly is about operational operations? And will he thus follow the advice of the Air Force when she once comes to his table?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e240	There was a lot to do here. The total cost estimate for Evenes was 4.2 billion. kr. Today, in 2019, it will be 4.34 billion. kr. So 3.5 billion. kr, with which the representative operates, I do not know where she came from. 4,34 B.C.E. kr is also well below the governance framework set for Evenes development. So it's true that any delay will give us a challenge when we get the P8 planes over. This is a capacity that's important for us to get over, it's a capacity that's important that we get operational, simply because the activity around us is bigger – it's more going on with our neighbours, and we're dependent on getting as good a situation as possible. I have not yet received advice from the Defense on where to possibly have the maritime patrol planes, the P8 when they arrive – temporarily before Evenes is ready – but I have said that I will follow the technical advice on where to operate the planes. There is no achievement on my part as to which runway to use or where to stand. There is a competent environment on Andøya that operates this operation today. It's a good thing the head of defense says it's fun to do it from Andeya. If that's his answer, I think it's quite natural to agree with the head of defense that we're going to drift it from where we run it the best. It's the operational capacity that's important here.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e251	I thank you for your answer. It is very good to hear that the performance should hopefully not be reasonable – no matter what the answer is. Former Minister of Defence Eriksen Soreide promised in 2017 that action would be taken to take care of those added to Andøya, which the Minister of Defence rightly says does a very good job and has done it for a long time. The measures are waiting for, and are still waiting for, and the time is running out to ensure Norway’s ability to secure the important contribution we have to NATO in the north. Norway is, as we know, NATO in the north, and the activity we have with MPA is important. When we see both the cost and the delay in the base of Evenes, it gives cause for concern. Can the Minister of Defence say what is the plan not to weaken MPA activity, when one sees that both the cost and the timetable will break in the creation of the new base on Evenes – a little more concrete?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e258	It is a little difficult to be concrete when you want to answer for a cost bar that I cannot see is there. That's now the one side of the case. The other side of the case is that the head of defense has addressed that there are challenges not only on Andøya. The air defense is in a very different position and will replace almost all the capacities. We have granted additional funds to the head of defence that he can use as a means of action to get people to stand longer in work and to acquire the skills available to operate the capacities. He uses his appointed head of Air Force to take these grips. So I know there's been a discussion about how to put the measures in place: should it be on a general basis for everyone who works there, or should it be for the capacities you need? I think that's a question between the employer and the employee, and so the head of defence is running the funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e263	It opens for follow-up questions – first Liv Signe Navarsette.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e268	The centre party has been involved in identifying the facts in this matter. This will continue on behalf of the Norwegian Defence Force. We want to have a credible defense that follows our commitments to NATO. Right-wing Defence Commissioner went out in a Northern Norwegian debate and said the United States is going to operate from And Islands until Norway's MPAs are in place. The next day he tried to go back to the nominees, but it is obvious that there is something that is scoring here. The centre party is aware that the Norwegian MPA environment is being taken seriously. We've seen a professional community that's tried to raise facts, but that's been overlooked by the conciliators. Air Protection was one of the main arguments for MPA to move from Andeya. Therefore, I would like to ask the Secretary of Defense if the Americans, the United States, who, according to the representative of Elvenes, will operate – unknown how long, we don't know if when the base of Evenes is finished – has air protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e275	No, by now there is no air protection on Andeya, but it should be, especially if you dig out facts to create a credible presentation of what the situation is. It's probably like there's not much digging to do to discover that the threat picture has changed quite radically in recent years. So there are precision missiles on the border with Norway with a range that enable them to cover most of our bases. That's why we've now said that we have to defend the bases with air protection. That's also the reason why we say in a cost statement that it's cheaper to defend one base than to defend two. That's the reason for the cost increase on Andøya. When Evenes is finished, it should be able to be defended by air protection, simply because we will then have a safer operation of the capacities we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e282	Live Signe Navarsete – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e288	The councils themselves said that there is now a missile ready on the border. How, then, could it be possible for one to operate MPA from Andeya without air protection, when it was not possible for one to go back to the discussions that the Labour Party and Government had a few years ago? It seemed as if the risks and dangers have increased, but talked about air protection has been gone on the road. That's why I asked questions. We know that the United States has quite often taken from Andeya. We know that Norwegian MPA, of course, flies as best they can. Even on the somewhat older planes they do a fantastic job, according to NATO, where I meet as parliamentarians right as it is. I want to ask the question again: when you don't know when to move from Andeya, it's not important now, today, to put those air defences in place – quickly?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e293	When I discussed this with the representative Navarsete last, it was because she denied the need for air protection for the MPA capacity. Then the MPA capacity, if the threat became so great, would be pulled southward. We have said that it is the Defence Operational Headquarters that dispose of these capacities, it is they who take the risk assessment. The defense's operational headquarters says that by having a base shielded with air protection you will be able to operate the MPA capacity further in time, you have more flexibility, and we will then get a better understanding of the situation in what will then be a dangerous situation. The reason why we don't have air protection on the bases now is that we've gone from a situation where danger wasn't expected to be very likely, to a situation where the danger has increased. So we've decided that we have to have air protection at Evenes as well. This has been part of the treatment of the cost increase in Ørland — where security has had to be increased, which has been taken through the Storting and should be well known.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e298	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e303	My question goes to the knowledge minister Jan Tore Sanner. The right has allowed PISA to run the Norwegian school debate for almost 20 years. The results of this year well illustrate why this is a wild trail. What we already know is that many Norwegian children don't read well enough, and that the boys are overrepresented among them. Instead of simple guarantees on PISA numbers, as Erna Solberg gave in 2009, we need a substantive debate on quality and content in school. Motivating a reading mind and a reading mind is an important part of the school’s work. SV believes that we have enough knowledge of what increases the quality of reading training. Right should look at the schools that work strategically and that succeed in motivating students to read both inside and outside the school. So I have three Christmas requests for the minister that I think will lead to more children going to read well. We need a new national literacy campaign. Working with reading requires long-term strategic work. Many schools are good at this, but we need a national strategy to ensure the quality of literacy training across the country. We need a statutory right to a school library with qualified librarians, because we see that the schools that have passed the reading training, like that. Huseby school in Oslo, has upgraded the school libraries. Then we need a bet on reading measures, and the right should give more money to actions that we know work, for example. The association reads its popular readership book locker price. Is it possible for the Council of State, since it is now soon Christmas, to fulfill some of my Christmas wishes?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e314	At least I can say that I agree with the intention and direction of the proposals that the representative addresses. I agree that it is important to stimulate literacy, I agree that school libraries are important, and I agree that we need different measures that can motivate children and young people to read. I also agree that we need a substantive debate on the results of the school. But if we are to have a substantive debate on quality in school, we need to have knowledge of the school. And it's now like it's PIRLS, TIMSS, PISA and national tests that give us knowledge of the school. We can see a lot on the basis of our own experiences, children's experiences, what we hear from teachers and school leaders, but we also need actual knowledge about developments in Norwegian school and in Norwegian classrooms. That's why I'm very surprised at what's SV's answer, that we're going to go away from PISA, away from national tests, that we're going to downgrade further education of teachers, and that we're not going to have a right to intensive training for the kids who're going after. Yesterday I received the Song Committee report, which addresses the situation of young people in high school. One of the most important findings there is that we send thousands of young people who lack basic skills in reading, writing and calculating, into high school. Then the answer is that we need to put greater emphasis on the basic skills, that we need the teachers' specialists, that we need further education, that we need to prioritize the basic skills throughout the school cycle, and that we need to have knowledge of the school. We're going to bet on both the literacy and the school library, and then we're going to see if it's going to be exactly the solutions that the representative of Fagerås wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e327	The SV's attitude to PISA is that it shows exactly what we already know, that Norwegian children don't learn to read well enough, and that boys are overrepresented. The decline in the reading of fictional literature is also greater in Norway than in the rest of OECD countries. It was therefore gratifying that the Minister also paid attention to the press conference held by the Minister in connection with the presentation of the PISA. But this is not the usual diet from the Right, which is largely occupied with reading skills without emphasising the reading light. Several expert selections, which were the Council's response to how we should solve these problems, will probably not create more reading for children and young people who choose screens in front of fiction. If the Council of State is really interested in reading, why won't the Council of State work more on the measures that were my Christmas gift request?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e332	Now I said I'm in favour of a school library, and I'm working with the Minister of Culture on a comprehensive strategy for libraries. We have just presented it. I also agree that there are many good measures on literacy in Norwegian school. But then I hear that the representative says we know. Yes, how do we know if we don't have national tests and these tests that actually give us knowledge of what the problem is? I'm absolutely convinced that we need knowledge about school in order to also have knowledge in school. So I have recently also provided a big message about early efforts and inclusive communities – close to – which is just about that we need more skills where the children are. I want to move the competence from the meeting room to the sandbox and classroom. We need to have more competence around the kids who are struggling. I have also presented new curriculums, which I think are a good response to some of the changes that we also see in students' reading habits, and we focus on endurance in reading and that students should read books and not just on screen.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e337	There will be follow-up questions – first Mona Fagerås.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e342	I am pleased the minister mentioned Tett at, for special education is a dark chapter in Norwegian school history. We know that about 50 pst. of those who receive special education in primary school have assistants and that many children in kindergarten meet adults with little formal special educational competence. In addition, the report of the Stoltenberg Committee shows that there are clear differences in the performance of boys and girls at different levels of the education system and that boys are again overrepresented in the statistics on special educational activities. The Minister of Knowledge has also stated to the media that many children do not receive good enough special education in Norway, so we agree, and that those students who need the most education are often met by an unskilled assistant. How can we ensure that the children who need it most are met by a qualified teacher instead of an unskilled assistant?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e349	This is a very important question. My frustration and grief are when I meet young people at high school where it has not been discovered in time that they are struggling. With regard to those who have difficulty reading and writing problems and with dyscalculia — which goes on numbers — the problems in high school do not arise; they have arisen much earlier. Often we see that small problems are growing. That's exactly why we have now announced a historic and lasting commitment to special pedagogical competence. Today, there are unclear responsibilities between the PP service locally and Statped nationally. The municipality is initially responsible. We want to enable municipalities and counties, kindergarten and school to take that responsibility precisely by focusing on special educational skills, moving the competence from meeting rooms to classrooms, and we need to start already in kindergarten, so that the competence is close, and those with the greatest problems, get the best help.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e354	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e360	The Council of State has said the following about the amendments to the Children's Homes Act: «The Board of Directors shall ensure that the 24 billion children's households receive government grants and parental payments in fact benefit their children». However, in the note from the government to the hearing, there are no measures that actually ensure that the money remains in kindergarten. Last year, over 160 million were taken out. kr in the form of group contributions – money sent up in the system from the individual nursery to the chains anymore in the group, money that did not go to the children. There is a sum equal to about 270 job vacancies in kindergartens. As long as the government accepts that there are commercial companies in the kindergarten sector, it's hard to see how all the money will actually be in kindergarten and benefit the children. A married couple received 356 million. NOK when they sold the Gnist kindergartens to the purchase fund Altor last year. When I asked Sanner about this, he said that the changes in kindergarten laws would limit the possibility of that kind of gain on the sale of kindergartens, but that it would also be possible to take out large gains on the sale in the continuation of the new laws. Kindergartens are funded by the public and by parental leave, not to build private assets, but to ensure the best possible childcare facilities for the children. How much does the Council of State think it's okay that commercial owners can take out of kindergartens? Or in another way: how much of the grant to kindergartens is it okay that the children don't really benefit, but disappears in the form of group contributions and in other ways further up the system?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e374	I notice that the representative Moxnes – I was saying as usual – is more concerned about who owns the nursery than about the children getting a good kindergarten offer. We must remember that the reason for the success in Norway in kindergarten is precisely the interaction between municipal, private and ideal kindergartens. It was the 2003 kindergarten agreement that provided the basis for our full kindergarten coverage, and it is not least because of how private people have set up and built up the kindergarten offer and given our children a good kindergarten offer. If the representative of Moxnes were to win, probably the consequence would be that many kindergartens would be laid down because private owners would have withdrawn. It is true that unlike the red-green government, which was responsible for eight years, we are now going through the code. We have had a proposal out at the hearing, and we are now considering all the hearings before the proposal comes up to the Stortinget. The representative will then receive the answer to the questions asked. But what's important to me is that we have a system that ensures transparency. That is why we have already announced that we should put in place national supervision and that we should also clarify the rules that the grants should benefit the children.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e381	The important thing for Red is that the money benefits kindergartens and does not disappear from them in the form of group contributions or in other ways, which unfortunately happens, and will happen if the government does not tighten up and stop the commercial ownership of kindergartens. What is happening now is that many municipalities want a democratic space for action to distinguish between ideal and commercial kindergartens. Unfortunately, the government refuses the municipalities. We see today that a kindergarten like Husbymarka Kindergarten in Stjørdal is being laid down against the wishes of parents and employees, because if there are too many places in a municipality, there is only one place the municipality can adapt the offer, and it is cutting in the municipal kindergartens. This is not equal treatment. It also does not give freedom of choice. On the other hand, it is a pre-emptive right for commercial kindergartens. Does Sanner agree that municipalities should have the possibility of non-discrimination between private and municipal kindergartens when they have to adapt the number of places to a smaller need in the municipality?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e390	Our starting point and goal – I am very happy if the representative shares it – is that in the case of the financial grants for kindergarten, it should be treated in a non-discriminatory way. But I am not quite sure if that is what the representative wants. The questions are: what is the party Red wishes going to happen to the kindergartens that are currently run by private owners? If Red is against private kindergarten, do they want the municipality to buy up the private kindergartens? Is it going to happen overnight, or is it going to happen gradually? We see that the parents are consistently satisfied with the private kindergartens. Yes, in fact, they are more satisfied with the private kindergartens in part of these studies. It shows that kindergarten is consistently good. Then the question is whether it should be possible to discriminate and impose specific requirements on ideal kindergartens. It is one of the questions that is now at the hearing and that the Stortinget is given the opportunity to discuss when the case is brought before it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e401	It opens for follow-up questions – first Bears Moxnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e406	This was unusually far out on Sanner's side, because the thing is that if a municipality gets less need for kindergartens, there is one place they can go down on today's offer, and it's cutting – exclusively – in the municipal kindergartens. This is what is now happening to Husbymarka kindergarten in Stjørdal, which is being laid down against the will of the parents. My question was whether the Right agreed that the municipality should be able to treat private and municipal kindergartens in a non-discriminatory manner in order to adapt the number of places to the need. Today they have a pre-driving right. You can't touch them. So you can only cut the municipal kindergartens if there's a need to cut down the places in a municipality. Moreover, Red is a great defender of the private, ideal kindergartens, which unfortunately are run over and bought up and disappeared due to a commercialization that is at the forefront of the Right, leading to less freedom of choice, fewer private, ideal kindergartens and more major commercial pediatric gardens.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e415	Now it's like they get a grant depending on how many children go to kindergarten. So if it's the case that parents choose the private nursery, it would be wrong if the municipality started cutting off the subsidy for these kindergartens. I record that the representative says he is for ideal kindergartens, but against being able to take dividends. The ideal kindergartens can also benefit from the kindergarten. There's no difference between the private and the ideals. The ideals are to invest back, but not necessarily in the same nursery. So if there's a dividend representative against it, it's kind of funny that Red defends the ideal kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e422	Bears Moxnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e427	What Red is against, are profit-motivated kindergartens where the purpose is to run for profit, to take money out of kindergartens. In the ideals, the money stays in the kindergarten, and the council knows that very well. He also knows very well, I would think, that it is the ideals that pay the price of commercialization that we now see in the kindergarten sector, which is dramatic, where a few large chains take over a lot of the private kindergarten sector, while the small private, ideals lose terrain and are bought up or laid down at a great pace, because the commercial takes over. It doesn't seem like the council correctly understands the question. Husbymarka Kindergarten in Stjørdal, mentioned in the Class struggle today, is a kindergarten that parents want, which has many places, but where the municipality has to decrease the number of places in the municipality. Then, with today's legislation, only the right to cut the municipal kindergartens; they can't touch the private ones. Is Sanner for a non-discrimination in this field, that is, by being able to adapt both the municipal and the private, or is it only for the municipal to take the noise if there is a need to bring down the number of places in a municipality?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e434	It is the municipality that then chooses to cut the nursery provision instead of tightening up other budgets. If it is that the municipality has financial challenges, it is the municipality's priority. I think it is important that we also give the private nursery owners predictability, and they receive grants according to how many children go to kindergarten. Otherwise, I register that, through all the questions here, it has only been about ownership of kindergartens. There has not been one question about the offer that children actually get in kindergarten. When shall the lot Red be taken up by the offer and quality of the children in kindergarten? In all the questions, it's about ownership. We see that the parents are well pleased with the locals, they are well pleased with the private ones. Our task is to facilitate good kindergarten. We have introduced a standard of manpower, we have introduced a standard of pedagogy, and it helps to increase the quality of all kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e441	Can I answer the question from the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e447	Since it's almost Christmas, the representative of Moxnes is going to be allowed to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e452	This was an almost reverse question time, so I also have to answer the Council of State's questions. We believe that there is a connection between the money going into a nursery and the offer to the children, because the money makes sure that you have enough employees, that you have qualified employees, and that you can afford good equipment for the children in the nursery. If large sums are taken out of kindergarten, you almost have to be a right-wing politician to think that it won't go beyond the quality of the offer. What we see from the study is that the satisfaction with the ideal kindergartens is the greatest. Then the satisfaction with the food supply in the commercial is slightly greater than in the municipal, of course, because they can take more money for the food in the commercial than in the municipal kindergartens. Otherwise you are evenly satisfied with the offer. We believe that if we make sure that all the money benefits the children, that we have a diversity of both municipal and non-profit private owners, it will provide a better offer than if you have a system of large sums that can be taken out of kindergartens. I guess that's actually, I think, also the Council of State Sanner actually agrees.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e463	Yes, I am concerned that the money we spend on kindergarten will benefit the children, and it is also an important premise in the proposal we have had on the hearing. Now we're summarizing all the consultation proposals, and then this is presented to the Stortinget, and the Stortinget gets a good opportunity to discuss these questions after we put forward the proposition. Otherwise – since we are now in an almost inverse Question Time – the question of what the party Red has actually intended to do with the private kindergartens remains. Nearly half of the children go to a private kindergarten, and if it is so that the party Red is going to wind up private kindergarten, the question is who is going to take over these kindergartens, whether it is such that the municipality is going to buy them up – and this was no question, President! I think we need a diversity of both big and small ideals, private and municipal kindergarten owners.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e470	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e475	The Minister of Knowledge can only stand still. I'll make sure that this doesn't slip out the same way – he'll get a question at the end. Norwegian school is facing a serious teaching shortage. The learning shortage will increase in the coming years, and one already sees alarming consequences out in classrooms. Already now, the proportion of unqualified is the highest in 15 years, an increase of almost 50 pst. since the right took over. Even now, half of the hours are provided with special instruction by unqualified assistants. And already, municipalities, especially in the districts, report difficulties in recruiting teachers. So unqualified people have been put into teaching to cover their teaching shortages, and we'll see in the future that this is just going to get worse. The SSB reported in 2018 that we are due to lack 5 800 qualified teachers in 2040. This is an increase in the teaching shortage of 1,800 teachers since the previous calculation in 2016, i.e. in just two years. I would really like me to stand here today just to criticise the lack of action from the right-wing government, but that is not the case in this case, because we now have a government that deliberately implements policies that aimly increase the teaching shortage. That's why SSB's estimate increases so dramatically in just two years. This government has introduced a retrospective separation of teachers, sending qualified teachers out of school and on course. One introduces four requirements in terms of teacher training, which means that top motivated applicants with 5 in Norwegian, but perhaps 3 in math, are not allowed to become Norwegian teachers, and one introduces a teaching standard that is not fully funded, which is a desktop reform that only works in the theory of Right House. So can the government assure parents, teachers and students around Norway that fewer unqualified people will teach in our classrooms around the country in the next few years?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e488	Now the new number comes tomorrow, so the representative will get the answer to that question. So let me let it hang a little bit in the air. What I can say is that since 2013, when we took over the government, there have been 2,500 more qualified teachers in Norwegian classrooms. I hear the story that the representative tells – and yes, it's challenges in the future, I don't underestimate it. But the reality is that there have been 2,500 more qualified teachers in Norwegian classrooms. It means there are more children, more students, who meet qualified teachers. I agree that one of the most important things we do is to make sure that there are qualified teachers in Norwegian classrooms. Then there are some challenges there, not least in the future -- we know that. It is also in the health sector. It's a fight for the skilled workforce. But luckily, it's now become more popular both to work in kindergarten and to work in school – in fact, we're setting new records for the number of people who want to work in kindergarten and school. That's what I think is related to the fact that this government has made sure to raise the status of the teaching profession. In the future, by making demands for master education, through a historical commitment to continuing education, through requirements for professional qualifications, it is actually becoming more popular to become a teacher. I work every day with my fellow member of state council Nybø to make sure that there are more people who want to learn, that they have qualifications, and that our children meet qualified teachers in classrooms.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e499	I'm happy to see the numbers tomorrow. The learning shortage will be guaranteed a theme also over Christmas when new numbers arrive now. In this way, I am also pleased that there are several people who have tried to become teachers, but the problem with the Council of State is that it has not become popular enough. This is not done enough to meet the growing teaching shortage. That's also what the SSB's calculations point to. Of course, there are single indicators that point in the right direction, but overall there is an increase in teaching shortage. In the overall picture, a precisely government policy is pointing to the reason why the lack of teachers has increased so dramatically in two years. One points to the standard of teaching, one points to unqualified teachers, one points to the things I said. Can the Council of State guarantee, with its explanation, that the proportion of unqualified persons to teach in Norwegian classrooms will decrease in the years to come and that the teaching shortage will be addressed?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e506	The representative often tends to end his question by asking if the Council of State can guarantee it. I do not believe that Norwegian policy or political debate is served by the fact that we are constantly issuing various guarantees. You can look at the outcome of the policy we provide. When I say that there have been 2,500 more qualified teachers in Norwegian classrooms since this government took over, the representative may well say that this is not done enough, but at least it is done more than when the Workers' Party was in government. We have also put in place a system in which teachers get a written off student loans, especially those who take a job in North Norway. We have also got in place, with the representative Nybø at the rudder, a separate arrangement where those who work at the school in North Norway and have a certain number of study credits from before can complete their teacher training. It also means that there will be several qualified teachers in Norwegian classrooms. I would like to hear if the Workers' Party has some good suggestions in this area – except to lower the requirements for those who are going to be teachers.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e517	It opens for follow-up questions – first Torstein Tvedt Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e522	Now I heard the Council of State say ‘Representative Nybø’. If there was a small drop of what's happening in the extraordinary state council now, we'll have to wait and see. I would like to remind the Council of State that this is a Question Time, in which he will respond to the challenges. We will probably come back to this in more debates later. The councils are, like me, concerned with the consequences. That's what I'm asking, and I'm trying to challenge the state council. What I'm pointing at is the consequence of this government's policy, and the consequence is that the proportion of unqualified teachers in Norwegian classrooms is the highest in over 15 years. That proportion has been doubled with the Right in government. Not many people are applying for teacher training, to meet the growing teaching shortage that both the teaching norm and other political approaches the government takes will lead to. The Council of State has said that he believes there is an unacceptable proportion of assistants in special education. Would he at the same time say that there is an unacceptable proportion of unqualified people who teach ordinary education?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e533	Yes, I have been very clear that children and young people in Norwegian classrooms are going to meet qualified teachers. That's what we work for every single day, and that's why we make sure that we make demands on the teachers, that's why we focus on the further training of teachers, and we also see that the consequence of government policy is that learning becomes more popular, and there are more qualified teachers in Norwegian classrooms. I am concerned about the consequences of the policy. The question is then, without question, back to the representative: what are the consequences of the Labour Party's policy, if you do not have to demand that teachers be immersed in the subjects in which they teach, if you want to lower the requirements for access to teacher training institutions? Yes, we need to discuss the consequences of the policy. I see that the consequence of the policy we are pursuing is that there will be more qualified teachers in Norwegian classrooms. I'd like to discuss what more we can do to get even more, but there's no doubt that it's going in the right direction in Norwegian school.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e543	Torstein Tvedt Solberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e548	Now I almost had to ask for a new line to answer the challenge from the Council of State. With the Labour Party's policy, one would have done more with the lack of teachers than with this government's policy, because then we would not have had that separation of teachers. They could teach in the classrooms instead of being sent on course. One had been recruited for teacher training, e.g. these highly motivated applicants who are five in Norwegian, but not good enough in math, and one had been fully funded by the teacher standard. What I'm concerned about in this discussion about the teaching shortage is whether we can do enough to meet the growing teaching shortage. Now we have seen that this government is pursuing a targeted policy to increase the teaching shortage. One cannot recruit enough, get the search up enough, and the consequence of this is serious in Norwegian classrooms. I will again challenge the Council of State and ask when he can guarantee – or will say, if he does not provide a guarantee – that the teaching shortage will decline, and that one will have fewer unqualified teachers in Norwegian classrooms.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e557	As I was in, the new number comes tomorrow. Then we'll all have to wait and see what those numbers say. I notice a few things the representative says, and one is that the teacher's norm is not fully funded. If I don't remember completely wrong, there was a question in the hearing the committee had, and KS said – correct me if I'm wrong – that it's fully funded. I think the Education Association has said something of the same thing. It's interesting to hear that if the Workers' Party is now against the teacher's norm. I thought the Workers' Party was for the teacher's norm. It's not like we're sending teachers on course. We ensure that teachers receive further training, so that they get more depression in, for example: Norwegian, English and mathematics. Those who have received further education say that they are becoming better teachers of it. That must be the goal: that our children meet even better and even more teachers in Norwegian classrooms. That is why I believe that the historical effort we have in continuing education is correct and important, also in order for more students to complete and pass high school.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e566	Marit Knutsdatter Strand – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e571	It's interesting that you came into the teaching norm, because that's who I'm interested in addressing as well. We believe that it does not help the teacher's lack. We lack knowledge of the impact of teacher norms and competence requirements for learners. The Training Law Committee has proposed the removal of the teaching norm, because they believe that the norm contributes to the binding of considerable resources into a system that is not very flexible for municipalities, that the device does not take into account the different needs of the pupils, and that we risk putting in fewer teachers than if the municipalities themselves have assessed what is appropriate in the individual case. The Council of State rejects the selection proposal and points out that the reform will be evaluated. At the same time, we know that too many school hours lack qualified teachers. The centre party has been a strong champion of increasing teacher density, but is critical to the teaching norm. The newspaper The Nations writes in a leading position today that the contrast between knowledge-based policies and one-off compromises is great. Did the government council have enough knowledge of how the teaching norm would work, or was the compromise between the government parties more important?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e580	There are different assessments in the research communities regarding the impact of such measures. The representative Knutsdatter Strand knows very well what the right at first thought about the teacher norm. But parties that sit in government make compromises with others. It will probably also have to be done by the Center Party when/if you come back to government. One thing that matters to the Right in this is that we're for more teachers. We believe that this is good, and we see that we have now received it. The second is to maintain the qualifications of teachers. We know that's working. The agreement with the Christian People's Party implies that we implement the teaching norm, which means more teachers in Norwegian classrooms and especially in the smallest children, and that means that we continue the qualifications of teachers. I think that's very important. It means more and better teachers, and I really think that's a pretty good compromise.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e587	Mona Fagerås – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e592	I thought that the Council of State Nybø could also take part in this debate. Now let's agree that Norwegian school is screaming for more qualified teachers. Then it makes no sense for me that the government is closing the door to teacher training for motivated high-section students who want to become teachers. Minister Nybø has recently taken the lead in mathematics, which every year since the rule on the four-claim was introduced, has made it possible to approx. 140 more teachers have come in and hopefully one day can work in Norwegian school. The threshold for access to teacher training has increased with the Left in government. What would the Minister say to the Norwegian pupils with high average characters who are highly motivated to enter the teacher training but who are now losing the possibility of an advanced course? Isn't this just a hopeless symbolism policy in a situation of great teaching shortage?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e601	The advance in mathematics has been – I would say – quite controversial. It was always meant to be a temporary offer for the students, and it was supposed to adapt to the legislation that now applies, i.e. that one had to have 4 in mathematics to get into the teacher's education. Someone has managed to pass, but it's not easy over a summer to have to rise from 3 to 4 in mathematics when it's a year ago a had mathematics last. Some have done it, but many – too many – have failed. There has been an expensive system, one of which has not received as much benefit from which one might hope. That's why we've decided that the USN, the University of Southeast Norway, is going to get $5 million. kr to offer an online math course. We hope that we can reach the potential students in the past, so that they get more time to mature in the subject. That way, we can help more people get the grade 4 through the private exam.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e606	Nina Sandberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e611	It is true that my question goes to the Minister of Research and Higher Education. As the representative of Tvedt Solberg was involved, we face a serious shortage of teachers in Norway. Nevertheless, the search for teacher training is too low in relation to the need. There are major challenges in recruiting teachers, not least in the districts. However, the government is barely taking overall action to ensure that it is properly trained. Some relatively few new places to study in the division and closure of North University teacher training at Nesna are examples. The government here underlines the formal autonomy of the university to abandon, but does not provide real autonomy for recruiting and delegating teachers regionally. In the autumn, 350 places of study for primary school teachers were empty. In 2019, it was only the request for kindergarten teacher training that increased. How will the Council of State get the number of new primary school teachers across the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e623	I don't entirely agree with that description of reality. I agree that we still have to work hard and targeted to get more people to choose teacher training, but in 2018 and 2019 the search for teacher training is overall at a higher level than in previous years, and never before have so many first-choice applicants for teacher training been qualified as in 2019. We've also taken a lot of action. We have e.g. the establishment of a student loan write-down scheme whereby one receives DKK 50000 if one completes teacher training under certain conditions. One sheep approx. 50000 more if one chooses GLU 1-7, and one can get approx. 50000 more if you choose to live and work in North Norway. It is an important and targeted action. In addition, we have opened up so that the two northernmost universities can qualify them who once started a four-year teacher education, but who never completed, so that we can also qualify them. Now we're assessing whether we're going to open up so that more universities in South Norway can also have that opportunity, so that we get even more qualified teachers out in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e632	Nina Sandberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e637	Let's say right away that the average number of applicants for teacher training does not say everything about recruiting primary school teachers, just as little as more applicants will be the only solution to the teaching shortage in primary school. The need is massive, and it has complex causes. Let me just mention someone: age leave, government policy, on which Torstein Tvedt Solberg was involved, with separation, math requirements, master education, underfunded teaching standards, weak implementation of teacher training and many newly educated people who move into other professions. We know that the study barometer shows that no one is less satisfied with his own study than the primary school teacher students. Today has 15 pst. by those who teach Norwegian students, neither education in pedagogy nor teacher training. What will the Council of State do to ensure the youngest students qualified teachers?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e646	The representative is quite right that one thing is getting them into teacher training, but we also have to get them through teacher training. Then we have to get them into school, and then we have to get them to stay there. One of the important measures to get more people to choose the so-called elementary school teacher education 1-7, or the GLU, is that we give extra credit write-downs targeted at that student group, because we know we need more there. We also have an information job to do, because we see that many people think that a servant better if a job that teaches in high school than if a job that teaches in high school and among the smallest students. It's completely wrong. We're busy getting more men into school, because I think kids in school need to have role models, good role models of both sexes. We're now using money to target recruitment against men, like down against the youngest students. We have a big job ahead of us, but this is going the right way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e655	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e660	My question goes to the Council of State Nybø. We know that most of the students here in the country stay in their home countries when they're going to study, and that the students most establish themselves close where they've studied. Despite a great need and alleged investment, many study places in the districts are empty. The government will support start-ups of study provision rather than ensuring well-established places of study that exist, with their professional environment, lectures and practice places. Here's a big capacity that we need to exploit. If we can't get close to 30,000 teachers in 15 years. This is critical in terms of demographic development and the provision of health services, with services close to people throughout the country. The structure of the higher education sector is changing, and the enormous efforts of higher education institutions to ensure skilled professionals and professional workers throughout the country are under pressure. Recruitment to municipalities is already demanding, before the structural reform and any changes that are underway have taken place. The centre party therefore wonders what the Council of State will do to make use of this capacity, which is critical and crucial because it is untapped, or whether it will leave it up to the institutions itself, even if the problem affects society as a whole and small communities in particular.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e669	I think it's a good question the representative comes with, and I think it's an important issue. It's a complex and quite big problem we're facing, which is not just about one subject area. We generally see that there is a higher search for cities than for districts. We see – it was probably this week at the latest – that Khrono had a look at nurse training, which is a hugely popular education, and even though more students than ever are offered a place in nursing training, it is still seen that there is a place empty in the districts. It's a challenge that we have to take seriously. At the same time, I am concerned that young people who want to take education must have great freedom in view of where they want to take that education. It's not unnatural that people want to spend their study time somewhere else than where they've grown up, because they want to experience something else, they want to be part of a student environment. There are many reasons why people travel to a city to study, which also has a lot of positive about it. However, as a municipality, when recruiting qualified staff, one of two strategies can be adopted — one can either send one’s youth to a city for education, for example. to become a nurse, and hope that the youth will come back again, or one can take those you have in their own municipal services and provide them with the training for which the municipality needs competence. That is exactly why we have now invested money in this state budget, which is to be managed by Diku for approx. 100 new places to study that can be offered outside campus. This is precisely the idea of being able to target those areas that do not currently have a place of study – if you need to improve your skills, whether in healthcare or in economics, whether full-time or part-time – and that it should be more adapted to the needs of the rural areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e678	Governments are involved in many of the points here, including: study places with good access to practical places are not filled in the district, but she forgets that students are most actually localised, and that recruitment to these jobs and to the labour market is linked to where the place of study is and where the student goes. Khrono now wrote on Sunday — which was also the subject of the Council of State — that 14 out of 37 nurse training courses have empty study places, while other offers are overfilled, and that is an untapped potential for the professional environment and places of practice, among others. Namsos, Hammerfest, Harstad, Molde and Kristiansund. The lack of nurses is and becomes the government's responsibility, and the consequences can be dramatic. Does not the Council of State wish to invest in smaller places of study that are currently established? Does she mean that more students have to move in order to take the education they want, and that their communities at home so badly need?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e687	Some of the challenge is that if you base the premise on the representative, that the students are localized, it won't help to be from the West if there are vacancies in Namsos. That's the challenge here. If you want to study in Namsos, you have an opportunity to take the nursing training there, precisely because there are vacancies there. So nurse training is a little special, because even if there are vacant places, it doesn't, as I know, lie out on Restetorg, because this has to get started quickly, and you can't keep filling up students that long. But we have to be able to provide education where people live, and that's exactly why we're trying out the new scheme now, with 100 places of study this year, which will be built up to approximately. 400 study places. I hope we will succeed, but then the municipalities also have to do a recruitment job, and then the educational institutions have to offer our online part-time study places – they have to adapt to the needs of the regions and communities.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e694	There will be follow-up questions – first Marit Arnstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e699	Let me at the bottom of the quiz get wish the councils Christmas. I hope I see you all again after Christmas – I understand that there are some changes in the near future. I want to follow up on some of the professional training and, in particular, nurse training, because there are many special aspects of nursing, both the recruitment job that the municipalities have to do, and the fact that you are so practical. It is strange that the places that are now empty – in Hammerfest, in Namsos, in Tromsø, in Harstad, in Narvik, in Molde and in Kristiansund – that they are linked to hospitals, you have the practical device there. That is the question of what to do in order to market these studies in a better way than today, and whether the Council of State believes that the government and the ministry also have a role to play here. There is a risk of talking about some places of study — and what has happened with the University of Nord may also have contributed negatively in this context — and there is a need to turn it around.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e707	To be absolutely sure I won't forget it, I want Christmas back to all the big business representatives. The representative Arnstad points to what is one of the most challenging aspects of nursing education, both in terms of dimensioning, and also in terms of where this can be offered. That's about. 50 pst. of the training taken out in practice, and today you are very linked to the hospitals. Diku – that directorate located in Bergen – just wanted to spend money on a practical pilot to try to make better practices for nursing students in the community health service. I think that's important because it gives us more flexibility. It also gives us the opportunity to dimension better, and not least it is important because many of the students are going to the community health service. Now patients are written out of the hospital earlier, and you get into the community health service, and therefore there is a need to have the education out there.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e714	Mona Fagerås – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e719	Education where people live says the minister. That's exactly why I've had such a great commitment to Nesna, which I don't think the minister has been able to avoid noticing. At a time when Norway in general — and my part of the country in particular — desperately needs more teachers, Nord University has decided to drop teacher training at Nesna. The closure is a serious blow to the bow of the district councils’ ability to provide qualified teachers. The world's best profession had earned the world's best education, but that education can also take place in District Norway. Has the minister done any studies of what the closure, and the conversion to Mo in Rana, will have to say for the number of students graduated from Helgeland? We know that, among other things: for kindergarten teacher training, students will be admitted only every two years, so I fear that there will be fewer graduates with the conversion.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e726	The issue of North University and the closure of the Nesna study site has been up for debate in several arenas, not least in this room several times, and I have certainly noticed the representative's great and strong commitment to Nesna. I am dealing with the decision made by the Nord University Board in this matter, but Nord University has also been clear that they have not lowered the ambitions to educate teachers and kindergarten teachers in the Helgeland region. They've changed the way they're going to offer teacher training. Now they gather in Mo in Rana, so instead of having three places of study in Helgeland, they get one. But it's clear that kids, schools and municipalities will also have teachers, health professionals and competences in the future, and it's Nord University that they're going to deliver to. But it is still early, because the decision was taken in June, so they have to make their plans more concrete.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e733	Mona Fagerås – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e738	I'm still worried – really worried. I'm worried about the employees at the North University, the Nesna campus, and I'm particularly concerned about the students who today have Nesna as their place of study. They have been left behind, they have been referred to in the management document, while the situation has been that the candidate figures for Nesna have been better than for Bodø in some studies. There are also better figures of attendance, implementation and student satisfaction, which shows that the Nesna study site had been viable. That's why I now ask on behalf of the students: Will the Council of State take the initiative to ensure that the students who have already been admitted to the Nord University Department Nesna will complete their studies there, as promised?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e743	I am very concerned that we will not talk down either the job done and done at Nesna, or the employees and students there. The students who go there meet exactly the same requirements for admission to teacher training as all other students in this country do – just as they have said. This decision was taken in June, and now Nord University has to engage in dialogue with both trade unions and employees as well as the legislation on the dismissal and transfer of staff. The students who are currently admitted to these courses have a collection-based offer, which is perhaps slightly different from the teacher training offered in many other places, and the collections have also been a bit different from those of Nesna. I'm sure the students will be taken care of through their studies, but there will be a change from being at Nesna to now having to deal with Mo in Rana.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e750	Then is the last oral question time in the year.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e764	There will be some changes to the questionnaire, and the President will refer to the electronic question list in this section. The changes were as follows: Question 11, from the representative of Tore Hagebakken to the Minister for Health, will be raised by the representative of Ingvild Kjerkol. Question 14, from the representative Jan Bøhler to the Minister for Justice and Immigration, has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e778	‘Does the Council want to reconsider its refusal to come to the Stortinge to give a comprehensive and comprehensive explanation of the whole crisis in the protection of children?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e783	As I have replied to Mr Henriksen through several letters in the past, I do not consider it appropriate to ask the Presidency to make a statement on child protection. I recognise that there are challenges in child protection, and it is serious that the EMD has had 34 Norwegian child protection cases for treatment. The challenges have been thoroughly documented through supervisory reports, research and case reviews. This gives us a good basis to put in place measures that work, to improve child protection. We have launched a historical competence effort, and we are implementing a child protection reform to which the Stortinget joined in 2017. We will present a new proposal for the Child Protection Act, and it is important that the new law contains good human rights assessments. EMD judges will be included as a background for this work. We carry out a review of institutional child protection and the use of private actors. We have also received a comprehensive NOU on foster homes, which we are well in the process of following up. This is the work we've been doing to meet the challenges, which means that in the next few years we'll see major changes in child protection. Nor should we forget that there is much going in the right direction in child protection. Capacity is strengthened. Compliance with key legal requirements has improved significantly in recent years. But this is no sleeping cushion for us. I take the challenges of child protection most seriously, and the government will continue to give priority to strengthening the provision of vulnerable children and young people. I would like to stress that this autumn I have been given the opportunity to participate in wide-ranging debates in the United Kingdom on child protection, both in the context of questions, in an interpellation promoted by the representative Ørmen Johnsen and in the context of the budget debate. Earlier this week I had a meeting with the KS, which was a lot about the development of child protection. My impression is that they and the municipalities now experience a lot in the field of child protection. I am happy to be able to participate in the debate on child protection, and I am absolutely sure that we will discuss various measures to ensure that children and families get the help they need and will have, of child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e794	Thanks for the answer. As the Council of State itself explains and describes, child protection gets criticism from many teams. Norway has been convicted by the European Court of Human Rights in five out of seven cases. Children and parents' living conditions are very poor, the morbidity and mortality are higher than in the normal population. Employees and the Children's Ombudsman require a more comprehensive and clearer government management and more people to do the job. Media surveys show serious violations of children’s health rights and that children live in long-term isolation, mainly in commercial exclusive measures. The class distinction in actions is documented, and professionals point to a lack of legal certainty and system errors — yes, even the Minister of Health points to a possible systemic flaw in child protection. So there's a lot to talk about. We therefore need a broad and comprehensive review of the child protection situation of the Council of State. Why does the Council of State object to such an overall presentation by the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e803	We have informed Stortinget continuously about all the processes that are in progress. As I said, a lot is happening in the different areas of child protection in order to make the situation much better. I am absolutely sure that when the Stortinge discusses the different moments, one will jointly find good solutions. The representative himself has been involved in promoting a representative proposal from the Workers' Party with various measures that in many ways summarize much of the government's coming along, or have already presented that we should come along. Working to strengthen the staffing of child protection is in full swing, which I believe is important. The lifting of competences is important. Now, Bufdir has been given a report on skills requirements in order to increase our child protection skills even more. We're doing the different processes. So this is the Storting well-oriented about, and I'm more concerned with addressing the challenges, of acting, than a new statement in the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e810	The government is now handling a crisis in Nav. Things might indicate that it started in a way similar to what we see with child protection now, that people around say from now on, but that the signals are not taken seriously enough. That was also what human rights lawyer Hillestad Thune said in the debate at the NRK. Child protection is our children's last safety net, and as politicians locally and nationally, we bear a great responsibility for this. The Council of State itself will require municipal child protection to provide annual reports to municipal politicians, which the Labour Party also supports, but will not itself come to the Stortinget and give a comprehensive explanation of child protection. I think it's unwise, and I ask again: why won't the Council of State include the Storing in the process rather than making child protection better?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e817	In the budgetary documents and in other documents, there is a good review of the processes that are continuously taking place in the field of child protection. We had a good, broad budget debate where we discussed important measures for child protection. We had an interpellation, and it's quite possible to have even more discussions. At the same time, we have so much documentation, which I know the representative is very familiar with – take the Health Authority, which went through 106 serious cases, where they concluded that it was right to go to the step of taking care of those matters, but they were also clear that we need to improve the relief measures, be in the past and ensure that families are more able to take care of the children themselves. I'm going to involve the Storting, with many things, the nearest time, and I'm glad that the Storting is discussing it. But that it is comparable to the Nav case and the crisis and the situation that has arisen there, I do not agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e827	My first question today is: ‘With Meld. St. 6 Close — early and inclusive childcare, school and SFO communities have contributed to high expectations for inclusion, mastering and development among children and young people. [[2019-2020]] Special education, special education and learning support are important elements of this. In the big news, the government announces changes to Statped combined with ambitions that all kindergartens and schools will have adequate access to special educational skills. How is reorganisation and economic cutting in 2020 at Statped in line with increased ambitions for the subject area?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e836	The government's aim is to develop a better adapted and more inclusive offer for all children and students. Competence should be closer to the children and the students. We're going to move the competence from the office and meeting room to the sandbox and classroom. We know that many children who need special arrangements do not get the offer they require, and that they too often get the help from assistants who do not have the relevant skills. The PP service spends too much of its time on expert assessments and too little on prevention work in kindergartens and schools. It should be obvious that children in need of specific organisation receive a pedagogical offer of teachers and staff with good competence. Therefore, in the Annual Report on Early Efforts and Inclusive Communitys, I warn of a lasting and historical lift of competence for municipalities and county councils. It shall contribute to ensuring that the kindergartens, schools and the support system around them, the PP service, have sufficient competence in special education and inclusion so that all children can receive the educational offer and the training they require. The skill level must be seen in the context of the changes we are proposing for Statped. Several selections and expert groups have proposed to drop Statped – I want to keep Statped, but the mandate will be clearer and more defined. The service shall be made more accessible to children and students with complex challenges and/or long-term and comprehensive needs in small and particularly specialised special educational disciplines. The resources we save on the changes in Statped should be increased to the level of competence in municipalities and county municipalities. A transitional period of five years has been provided to ensure that the supply of children in need of special arrangements is not exceeded. As a start, a saving of 25 million was committed in 2020. kr on Statped's budget, which is mainly intended to build competences in municipalities. A small sum will be set aside for evaluation. During a five-year period, the level of Statped appropriations shall be reduced by 150 to 200 million. kr annually, as an eartag lift. The level of competence must be built up over time and in dialogue with KS, municipalities, county councils and other central parties. It is necessary to ensure that the qualification scheme meets the needs of municipalities. With funds of between 150 and 200 million. kr this year will contribute to a solid promise for municipalities, and competence will be closer to those in need of assistance. Together with the other measures in the Communication, I believe that this will contribute to a more inclusive and better adapted offer to children, and that the educational offer is provided by staff with the relevant skills.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e855	The Council of State responses do not address the challenges of the economy and cuttings already in 2020. Nor do the municipalities get a growth that is in line with the increased requirements that are being made, among other things. in connection with this notification. Statped and municipal specialised educators must work well towards common goals, and I am pleased that Statped will continue to be part of this work. However, in this area too, much is unclear in the Communication on early intervention. As the Council of State had in mind, there is a five-year transitional period until municipalities and counties get in place the top-notch competence they get through Statped today. During this period Statped shall continue to maintain and develop the service referred to in the notification. How is Statped going to cope with yet another conversion combined with economic cuts? How will this help to strengthen the small professional environment, where current demand is much higher than supply?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e864	I perceive that the government's proposal is well received, including at Statped. It has its background in the fact that a number of samples have proposed to deposit Statped or to transfer Statped to the counties or municipalities. I believe that we need Statped, especially in specialised and complex disciplines where we cannot expect the municipalities or county councils to have competence. That's where we need Statped, and that's why I want to keep it and keep it going. At the same time, there are some areas – in dyslexia, dyscalculia, ADHD – where municipalities are initially responsible, but we know that many municipalities lack that competence. That's the background for me to announce a historic and lasting lift of competence, so that we can ensure more competence where the children are. But we're not doing this overnight, and that's why we're warning a five-year bet and a five-year transition period in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e871	We agree on the need for Statped, and we also agree that competence, quality and an offer close to people are essential. But there's still a lot that's unclear for Statped. The mandate will be reduced and smaller regional adaptations will be made while Statped will have a more national approach. Limits to the health sector, for example, shall be assessed in a new sample. Statped was established as a national and nationwide organisation in 2013, with strong regional ties. They've been going through a lot of changes and they're going to keep going for a long time. What makes the Council of State not want to look more at the experience of Statped after the last major change, when the goal is the same, namely early effort and an inclusive school?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e878	We are based on experience, and there is no doubt that Statped has been through demanding changes. It also implies that they have the ability to switch. What we're doing now is we're clarifying the debate that's been going on for a lot of years, whether we're going to have Statped or not. The latest proposals, both from the Nordahl Group and the Hagen Committee, went into a radical transformation. I am absolutely convinced that we need Statped's competence in specialised areas. In the broad areas, municipalities already have competence, but many of them lack it. There has also been a unclear division of responsibilities between Statped and the PP service locally. This means that some municipalities use Statped too little, while others use Statped too much. They could have built up skills locally themselves. So now we're pointing out the direction. It is true that there are still some questions that need to be resolved. That's why we're working with KS in this area. I think that is very important for us to succeed.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e888	Here we get cleaned up before Christmas. «IN NOTIFICATION. St. 6 Close to – early efforts and inclusive sharing in kindergarten, school and SFO come the government with its solutions. [[2019-2020]] A government proposal is an expert committee to look at the school contribution indicators, and another is increased testing and data collection where statistics and data on kindergarten, school and individual data are to be collected and systematised. How do these measures respond to the problems of pressure and stress in schools reported by students, teachers and parents?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e897	Our goal is to ensure that all children and students experience well-being, mastering and learning. There are currently large differences in quality between kindergartens and between schools. One in five municipalities is below the national average for school contributions in the middle and early stages. Studies of school contributions indicate that there is up to a full school year in difference in the number of schools that lift students professionally. Today we know too little about the characteristics of the schools that contribute most to the learning of the students. To provide equal opportunities for all children and young people, regardless of where they live or who their parents are, schools need to be better able to lift all students. It is therefore important that we acquire knowledge of how schools can work systematically to improve the quality of training. The government has set up an expert group to examine what distinguishes the contribution of schools to the learning of pupils. In particular, it will look at what is needed to improve the quality of training in schools with low school contributions over time. It's important to be transparent about how good schools are to lift their students. When we point out that not everyone performs as well, it's to get dialogue about how we can do better schools. The work of the expert group contributes to the ability of schools and municipalities to access knowledge of good quality development and thus reduce the time they would otherwise have spent looking for answers to their own challenges. National authorities need to know the state and organisation of kindergartens and schools in order to develop policies and take good action. For many years in Norway, we have built up a relatively good system of data statistics on kindergartens and schools. At the same time, we see that there may be a need to further develop the system. In Report. St. 6 for 2019–2020, Close to – early and inclusive community in kindergarten, school and SFO, we have proposed to explore possible solutions to improve statistics and data on kindergarten and school, where privacy concerns are maintained. This does not imply any further testing of children and students. Neither kindergarten children nor school students will be directly affected by these measures. They are aimed at owners, managers and national levels. In terms of stress and pressure, there are other measures that can counteract this. With the innovation, we introduce public health and lifelong learning as a new multidisciplinary theme in school, which will help students learn how to deal with attendance and adversity. Equal work loads and varied teaching can help students to experience less stress in everyday life, and it is important that both school and teachers work to avoid developing a stress culture at school.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e912	Now that the Council of State says that I'm most pleased with it, it's just that there's no more testing or a greater extent associated with the investigation that comes about data collection related to the students. The centre party fears that we will develop the school on an uncertain basis. It's also going to be a mistake if what you're being tested on is the only thing that gets attention. Mestring and well-being must be in place for the students to learn, which I also experience that the Council of State is involved. How should school owners be able to prioritise and take care of everything that cannot be tested, such as: mastering when they are constantly being pressured and stressed on school contribution indicators and data collection for the rest?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e919	The point of the school contribution indicators is neither to push nor to stress; it is that schools are just about to learn how much they contribute. How much do they contribute to the actual completion of high school? How much do they contribute to students being at school and not falling from it? And how much do they contribute to raising quality? It could give them an indication of whether they can learn from other schools, or whether there are other schools that can learn from them. I believe that this is important knowledge for the headmaster, for the school owner and for the teachers in their work. I fully agree with the representative that the school has a double mission. The school should both form and educate. These are tasks that complement each other, and I believe that with the new curricula – which we have just focused on slimming so that there is room for a value-lifting and more space and time for immersion for the students – we make it possible for the school to achieve this through good planning and prioritisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e926	Along with this value-lift, the Center Party believes that trust in the teaching profession is something we should also use, and we believe that this should be more weighty when assessing the results of the school, the quality and the benefits for the individual student, both nationally and by school owners. Neither pupils nor teachers have expressed a strong desire or need to focus more on school contribution indicators or data collection. Focusing on such data and highly advanced statistical analyses has both weaknesses and fault margins. How will the Council of State ensure that results in such data collection are not misinterpreted, overinterpreted or used on the wrong basis for school interventions?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e931	After presenting the latest school contribution indicators, a lot of locals have written about their schools. One of the things that pleases me the most is that locals have raised the schools that do well. They have interviewed the principals of schools that are particularly positive. I'm glad. There are many who have feared that public disclosure and transparency about the results of schools will help you rank, that you will hang out those who don't do so well. But what we see is that a lot of local and regional newspapers do the opposite. They say, look at this school -- it can teach others. It gives pride and energy to those who have good results. I believe that this is important information. I'm more surprised that parties on the left-hand side don't want national tests, don't want PISA, don't want school contribution indicators. One of the most important things is that we make sure that we have knowledge of the school in order to have knowledge of the school. And with that, I want the representative to have a really good Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e940	Then it's called out.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e948	‘The HF Air ambulance service is now in contact with air transport for assistance during the current crisis. What is the status of these negotiations, and when can it be expected that the air ambulance service is at contractual level, without external, extra resources and crisis response?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e955	Last week was demanding when Babcock decided, in the interest of flight safety, to place five of the ambulance aeroplanes on the ground and at the same time imposed some restrictions on the use of the other Norwegian propeller aeroplanes of type Beech 250. This decision put everyone in a difficult situation, but the safety of the crew and passengers on the aeroplanes must always come first – whether the operator is public or private. And let me add: this could have happened whether the operator was public or private. The emergency level was immediately reduced last weekend. This was demanding for all involved and affected, and additional measures were taken. Before this event occurred, we already had some extra resources from Babcock and not least the defense helicopter located in the Kirkenes. Babcock quickly made additional resources available, and the health regions and the Air ambulance service mobilised aviation resources from commercial companies as well. These resources will continue until Friday of this week. After this, some extra resources will also be carried forward into the new year, and I have previously presented the plans for additional preparedness during the winter. My impression, so far, is that last week, relatively quickly, it was possible to raise the level of preparedness sufficient to provide a decent service to the population. The specialist healthcare service now needs to review what has been received from non-conformities, thus providing a clearer picture of how patients have actually been cared for. In this demanding situation, the main impression is that the specialist health service has once again proved to be a good emergency organisation. I know that there are many people who have been far beyond what we can expect. Thank you to each of them! But I am also pleased that the Health Authority has today announced a review of the situation. In such situations there will always be improvement opportunities and learning points. So a more direct answer to the question from the representative of Moxnes: it was last week a dialogue between HF and Air Transport AS on the possible use of the old aeroplanes in Tromsø. There were, as probably also the representative has registered, slightly different signals about how quickly these planes could possibly be used. I perceive that the Air Safety Authority, which approves and gives a clear signal for use, made a very clear statement on this matter. They thought this would take months. This is in line with the picture taken by the HF Air ambulance service — that this was a possible measure that could be realised in the longer term.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e968	Bent Höie has gone from previously acting as Babcock's press spokesman to now being the company's subcontractors. As they are unable to do their job, there are now additional measures with both helicopters and jet planes from the government. These measures are in themselves a recognition of a complete failure in the selection of the operator for the entire ambulance flight service. Until now, Babcock has not been able to meet the emergency requirements one single month since they took over. When will Bent Höie realize that enough is enough, stick his finger in the ground, put away the prestige and start a necessary and gradual phase-in of the air ambulance into what is the public health service, how other ambulance is part of it?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e973	There is no performance related to the solutions used in this case. What is my prestige is to be able to deliver good services to the population. It's the population that's my sponsor – neither Babcock nor anyone else. There is a background to the measures put in place, and there is also a background to the measures now being implemented during the winter. It is to gradually rebuild confidence in the service of the people of North Norway and also to ensure that those who work in the service, who have now been in a difficult situation for over a year and a half, experience that there are extra resources that make them not only feel more secure but also have more resources to play on through this winter. That is why we are now planning for extra resources over the winter – although, of course, we assume that Babcock will continue to deliver under contract.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e978	Long before the acute crisis we saw, it was clear that Babcock would not deliver on the contract until February 2020 – i.e. eight months after taking over the air ambulance service. That is why it is a fundamental failure we now see, which has put the security of life and health of the population at risk, and which is not solved by the government's extra measures. It might seem that Bent Höie's project is to make sure that Babcock, at what cost, remains as an operator out of the period. Is it true that there would in any case be a need for extra measures from the public during the winter, even without the extra crisis we got with planes on the ground last week?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e983	There is a combination of the situation the service has been for a long time now, during the previous operator Air Transport AS — that was when the problems started — and also under Babcock. I am not satisfied with the delivery of Air Transport AS according to the contract or Babcock's delivery. When the service over time is with uncertainty and with various additional measures, I believe it is right, now that we assume that Babcock will deliver under contract, that we still have a higher preparedness during this winter, both to reduce uncertainty and to increase capacity – not least for those who work in this service.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e991	This question, from the representative of Mr Knag Fylkesnes to the Minister for Health, will be drawn up by the representative of Mr Audun Lysbakken.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e996	‘There has been a failure in air ambulance preparedness throughout the whole harvest and there is clearly a need to strengthen preparedness, even after the acute crisis with aeroplanes on the ground has been resolved. According to the Council of State, it will take too long to make use of the offer from the previously well-functioning provider to operate with aeroplanes that are adapted. Is it true, and in that case why has this work not started a long time ago?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e1003	In my previous question, I was a little behind the challenges of using the old Air Transport AS aircraft in Tromsø. As the representative has probably got along, this is not a quick fix. I think it makes sense to also remember what has actually been the challenge since the new operator took over on 1 July this year. In the first phase, there were proper problems related to the navigation system on the aeroplanes, and this resulted in relatively extensive air call-outs, but beyond the fall, what was the biggest problem has become increasingly clear, namely access to pilots and not access to aircraft. So earlier in the fall, it didn't seem to be a clearly reasonable thing to have the aircraft from Air Transport on standby, but if you were to assume that you wanted to do this, there would be an operation that would have required a lot of the resources that were the least available to you in the autumn, namely the pilots. It's the pilots who had to spend time preparing the old planes and devoting themselves to flying them again. This would mean that an already pressed service had to free time for something that it was not rational to do at the time. I have recorded that some people say that these are the same pilots who operated the old planes earlier, and I understand that reasoning, but the aviation safety regime is more demanding than that. I would therefore like to refer again to the statements made by the Air Safety Authority in this matter: there is a need to re-train both trainers and pilots before anyone can fly these machines again, and this takes time. This is the same activity that Babcock had to do in the summer months when they used the new planes. As I said in Stortinget on Monday, 9 December, using Air Transport AS’ remaining aircraft was one of the solutions that was evaluated. What was crucial was which measures could be mobilised as soon as possible. The experience showed that this was Babcock's flight from Sweden and two contracted commercial flights, one from Denmark and one from Norway. It does not now seem reasonable to start work on clarifying these planes at an earlier stage, although we are, of course, working to clarify all the conditions that may need to be present to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e1016	I think many people have now hurt to understand that there can be no planes in the air while there are planes on the ground that were in use for a short time. I am registering the Minister of Health's explanation for this, and I hope that someone has checked this more thoroughly than via one Air Traffic Inspectorate's media statement. Looking at what was actually possible or not, since there is a claim against the statement here, can also become a matter for the Control Committee, I think. But the basic problem here is offered, and that's the government's responsibility. Our fear is that there has been a record in this for the government, so that they, for example, refuses to consider a faster state acquisition of the Ambulance Aviation Service. It may not be an end in itself for the government to rescue a shaky tendering system. We can't just patch up a system in crisis, we have to change it. Therefore, I wonder if the Minister of Health is now willing to take self-criticism for the cracked tender process that he is responsible for.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e1023	Of course, that's what the representative addresses in his main question, figured out more thoroughly, and as I said, we're not done with that work yet. We'll get to the bottom of what conditions might have to be in place so that one could put those planes into service. But, as I said, there have been meetings with both the Air Safety Authority and Air Transport AS, so it has also been put to work, although, of course, the main priority of the health business in this situation has been to mobilise the resources that could be mobilised quickly. It's also what you've spent the most time on. It's not like this is based on a media release from the Air Safety Authority. We have set up an expert committee that will now provide advice on how this service should be organised for the future, and I think that we are all wise to await the work of the committee of experts and see what recommendations they make.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e1030	I think a lot of people might think that some self-criticism on the part of the government would be in place even before you got the expert committee report. It may not be necessary to wait for it to determine that this process has not been successful. It's unclear how many planes are flying. It is also unclear how much money is flying. The strategies, including those outlined by the Council of State at its press conference today – he did not have time to come and explain in Stortinget, but had time to have a press conference – had to be paid by someone. They are a consequence of Babcock not being able, or a fear that Babcock is not able, to comply with its obligations. Therefore, it is natural to ask how much the measures will cost, and who will take the bill. Is that Babcock, or is that the state?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e1037	In the representative’s question, it is a premise that this government has put this service on the market. It's not. This service has always been out of tender, even when the representative himself has been in the government, and it has been since 1998, when an established service. I have said that I will ask to come to Stortinget and have a statement, but that is not my time. I have previously said that I am a little surprised that SV thought that those who worked to deal with this situation, that weekend and Monday it was at the most critical, should actually put away that work and prioritised preparing me to come to the Stortinget to explain. It may show some of the SV's priorities in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e1047	‘University Hospital Nord-Norway, UNN, describes a very heavy harvest, where half of the 286 adverse events are caused by an air ambulance emergency failure. What compensatory measures does UNN have as a result of having to put in emergency response and deploying double teams on the emergency centre?’ I have to complain strongly that the last part of the question is a mistake, but I still believe that the question stands, and therefore ask the minister what compensatory measures UN gets as a result of having to put emergency response on December 9th.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e1056	I think I understood what the representative's intention was to ask the question, and I hope I can give a good answer to that. As I mentioned earlier, I am very grateful for the efforts that everyone has made to ensure the preparedness while we have been in a difficult situation, and that has been the case for a year and a half now. This applies not least to AMK, the Air Coordination Centre and the other environment at the University Hospital of North Norway. Each of them deserves a great thank-you. The environment at UNN has had a difficult situation, as I say, and not least it became extra demanding when, after a long period of uncertainty, there was a situation where so many planes were put on the ground. I am clear that I am not satisfied with the readiness provided by Babcock since they assumed responsibility in July this year. Last week I was in both Finnmark and Troms to meet many of the people who were affected by the lack of preparedness in the air ambulance service. I was also visiting the impressive crowd that is at UNN, and was told how they are experiencing the situation, and what they would advise me about possible action in the future. I want to follow up these conversations and look at the necessary measures for, among other things. to relieve UNN staff in the future. Earlier today, I have presented our plans for action during the winter and I am working on this. The representative of Fagerås refers in his question to the fact that there have been 286 adverse events at UN. For the sake of order, let me say that in a press release last Thursday, the health company presented the facts relating to these missions, which were actually 15 deviations and 8 events from last weekend. As for the economic side of the increased preparedness at UNN, I assume that Health Nord compensates for this in the same way as they have done before. The additional measures currently planned during the winter period will be the four health regions together that will have to take the bill for. It's not a responsibility that only Health Nord has. Then, of course, the government will assess the need for additional appropriations in the context of the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e1069	I am very pleased that the Minister of Health recognises the people behind this crisis. There are a lot of people who have been on and done a great job, and who really deserve applause. The hospital economy is already extremely under pressure as it is. The UN Long-term Plan presented earlier this month that real economic growth is 0.5 p.p., despite the fact that a level of activity to deal with a growth of 1.5 p.p. is taken into account in the State budget. This is due to both ABE cut and savings measures due to investments. Does the Council acknowledge that there has been, and is — such a serious failure in the air ambulance service that this also affects the hospital?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e1076	Yes, I acknowledge that, and as I said, I assume that Health Nord is dealing with this in the same way as before in relation to the special challenges of UN. In the case of the extra measures that you now put in over the winter, it will not only be Health North, but initially the responsibility of the four health regions. The government will then have to assess whether there is a need for additional appropriations towards the revised budget as a result. I believe that in this way we can also deal with the economic challenges that this poses. It is also true, of course, that Babcock has to pay an economic compensation because they have not delivered under the terms of the agreement we have with them.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e1083	At today's press conference, we heard the Council of State Höie say that the error that has now been over time is due to the contractors. I believe that if the Minister had taken the necessary steps in 2016 and listened to those of us who in 2018 engaged us enormously in this matter and took it up in the Storting, perhaps some of the problems we have had in my part of the country now could be avoided over time. Does the Minister recognise that there has been a weak tendering process and that there is a weak tender that is the cause of the crisis? What is done to avoid this in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e1088	The situation that we, for example, are facing. has now been in, is not due to the tendering process. These are the planes that any operator who should have had new aircraft in this service must have purchased. If it was that we had a scenario in which there was a state company that took over this service in the summer of 2019, it's almost 100 pst. the probability that it is these planes that had been in service. When the contract requirement was new aircraft, it is also so that if Air Transport AS had won the contract, it is probably these aircraft that had flown in this service. The technical challenges that have been with the aeroplanes would probably be the same, regardless of the operator.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e1096	‘The emergency failure of the air ambulance service has led to the deployment of significant extra resources, including: from the Defence. In addition, the situation has called for increased preparedness in health services. Babcock has not delivered a contract when it is due in any of the months since 1 July, when they took over the responsibility. Could the Council of State provide an overview of extra-resources costs incurred from July until today in order to ensure defence preparedness in the air ambulance service, and who will pay?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e1103	I am not satisfied with the readiness provided by Babcock since they took over the contract for this in July this year. Last week it was undoubtedly extra demanding when, for reasons of flight safety, it was decided to place five ambulance aeroplanes on the ground and at the same time imposed some restrictions on the use of the other Norwegian propeller aeroplanes of type Beech 250. This decision put us all in a difficult situation, but it is such that the safety of the crew and the passengers on the planes should always come first. The emergency level was immediately reduced last weekend. This was demanding for all involved and affected, and additional measures were, as I said, implemented. This has called for enormous mobilization throughout the service, not least in the relatively small health company Air ambulance service HF. Fortunately, on Thursday evening last week, we received the happy message that we had found a solution to the technical problems that had arisen, and all the planes could be operational without restrictions during the next few days. We maintain extra resources until Friday this week, and after that there will also be some extra resources going on into the new year. As I said earlier today, I have also presented the plans for that extra readiness during the winter. In the situation we have now had, it has not been right to give priority to economic issues in the case of reduced preparedness or the purchase of extra resources. I can therefore neither say what this has cost nor who is going to pay for the different measures. There will of course be an economic settlement here, and it is obvious that the situation that arises will lead to financial claims against the operator Babcock. How much we don't know yet, but the parties to the contract will relate to, i.e. the HF and Babcock Air ambulance services, and they also have to deal with when it's clear which preparedness has been delivered and what total costs have been incurred.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e1114	I have to register that in the situation we're in, the government doesn't have time to deal with the Storting. The Council of State does not have time to answer the costs involved, nor has it had time to follow up the decision on its own evaluation. I have to say that it's quite eye-catching. Now there's a situation where Babcock has not been able to fulfill his own supply. Major additional measures have been put in place to deliver on the contract to Babcock, as well as beyond it. What was said at today's press conference was that in addition to what's in the contract, a extended Defense Helicopter Preparedness will come, and there will be helicopters on a permanent basis in the Kirkenes. Extra jet aeroplanes have been installed, which have also not been part of the contract, and new communication solutions and new option agreements for quick access to flight resources. This costs money. Is it possible that the Council of States can't give Storting a clue to what kind of costs we're talking about here, and who is going to take these extra costs?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e1121	The store has received a very clear response that when Babcock does not deliver under contract, it has an economic cost that they have to pay. We saw last week that the first calculations were made, and the requirements that were related to missing deliveries earlier came to Babcock. This will also be handled further. I have said that I am going to ask the Stortinge to be allowed to explain this, so the Stortinge knows that they are getting an explanation. What had been alarming was if I and the people working on this in the HF Air ambulance service, in Health South-East, in Health North and in the Department, in the situation that was very demanding in North Norway, had spent the time and resources now doing the financial calculations and spent our time and resources preparing a thorough account of the Greatness. There had not been a lack of time, but it had been the wrong priority of time.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e1128	What's the situation, is that Babcock won the deal because they were 47 million. kr cheaper than the other company, which had a greater preparedness. It is also a situation now that the Finnish Hospital must cut 119 million. kr. There is a cut in the ambulance service in a situation where the ambulance flights do not have the standby they should have. Therefore, it is important for Stortinget to know about the economic situation now, and who will pay. I simply don't think that Storting cannot get an answer when we repeatedly ask what this is going to cost. But in 2018 we got a kind of response to what it would cost. The defense helicopter costs half a million dollars a week. Jet aircraft from Sweden cost NOK 31,000 per hour. An ambulance plane from Sweden cost NOK 600,000 per week. Why don't we get this information now?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e1135	The size is going to get the information they're asking about, when the information is clear, but as I said, it's going to be the wrong priority of time when the people who are working on it now have the main focus on solving the problem that's important for patients, and then the Storting will get answers to their questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e1143	‘The Council of State has referred a number of times to the fact that it is more than 100 pst. preparedness coverage, while doctors and ground personnel report that sick persons have not received the assistance they need. There is a need for a calculation that not only shows the number of aeroplanes but also whether the necessary missions are being solved and the local need. Will we have it?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e1150	I would first like to point out to the representative that my statement that it was over 100 pst. Coverage in standby, related to the figures for Troms and Finnmark in November, which was then 107 p.m. I understand that it may seem strange to operate with a standby of more than 100 p.p., but that is the figure that most easily explains and shows that the standby is above what is originally planned and is in the contract with the operator. This was due to the addition of additional aircraft from Babcock, from Sweden, and the government had at that time deployed the Defense helicopter in Kirkenes. In October, when I saw that the ambulance aircraft standby was not yet in line with the contract, I asked for a daily report from the HF Air ambulance service on the emergency situation. These reports are, as I suppose the representative Kaski is familiar with, published on the air ambulance service website. In addition, I have also received extended reports from Health Nord after the weekend from 6th to 8th. December, when Babcock put five planes on the ground. Here they report on any adverse events in patients as a result of the emergency response and make an assessment of the emergency situation. The County of Troms and Finnmark has also established a reporting system as a result of the later air ambulance challenges. The County receives daily situation reports from Health Nord. In addition, the County of County has established a separate reporting from the municipalities throughout the health region. These are short and structured reports from the municipalities of Troms and Finnmark and from the municipalities of Nordland. On this basis, the County State prepares a report which is sent every day to the Health Directorate. As can be seen from what I have said, there is relatively extensive reporting related to the air ambulance service. These are reports that could help to shed light on the issues on which the representative is concerned. I take with me the representative’s call and will look into how existing reporting can be made more accessible to the population. In addition, the Health Inspectorate has today also said that they will review the situation and assess the state of preparedness, its adequacy and the overall situation. It will also be very useful knowledge and will be able to provide us with new lessons, both on how the situation is handled and on how to deal with similar situations in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e1165	I think it's important for the trust of both us politicians in the north and the system as such that there's a connection between what's being reported, the calculation you get, and what's being experienced on the ground. Here you have calculated the preparedness, the compensatory measures, and there have been challenges with both helicopters that do not tolerate bad weather, jet planes that have too long travel routes, and access to pilots, which were also pointed out by the Council of State in one of their previous answers. Getting a match between what's real on the ground and the preparedness that's being reported from the authorities is very important. So I'm happy about it, if that's how to understand that there's going to be a new way to report on the preparedness.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e1170	I'll take those recordings with me. What is also important to stress is that when we operate on these numbers, real preparedness is available. But I have said several times that I understand that for those who work in healthcare, it is demanding in itself to have to deal with extra measures and measures that change over time, because it is always most optimal for healthcare to deal with planned resources and the usual resources that are best practised. Even though readiness is higher when we have an extra helicopter in Kirkenes, and even though readiness is higher when, for example, we have an extra helicopter in Kirkenes. have an additional and a different type of aeroplane — aeroplanes flying on the long-haul runway, free time for short-haul aeroplanes because they take the longer assignments, and that means that the short-haul aeroplanes become more prepared for what may be called the vicinity — I also understand that it has other resources, makes it more demanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e1175	The compensatory measures put in place, which the Council of State has explained earlier today, are, of course, measures that will cost money. The Council of State has been asked more questions about what will be the total bill for these measures that are now being put in place to compensate for Babcock’s failure to deliver under the agreement. Although the Council of State will not answer the bill, I wonder if he can now fully specifically guarantee that this bill will not be passed on to the patients in Finnmark, being pushed over to Health Nord and the Finnmark Hospital, which are already facing cuts.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e1180	The measures that we put in at the top are not implemented on the basis that we expect Babcock not to deliver. On the contrary, we expect Babcock to deliver in the future, but we still want measures at the top of it. There are measures that the four health regions should initially take the bill together and that are not left to Health Nord to take alone. And then, of course, as always, the government will assess the need for additional appropriations in relation to the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e1188	‘The Government has set up an expert group to investigate the future operation of the air ambulance service. The mandate requires them to investigate the organisation, public operation or non-profit operation of the day. This is a very open mandate, which could mean ending up with today's organisation. In the light of the experience gained from the lack of preparedness we are now seeing, does the Council of State see the need to change the mandate to limit this to carrying out public operations and/or non-profit operations in the future?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e1195	The expert group’s mandate is to describe the development and status of the air ambulance service, to describe the organisation of the service in other countries, to review experience with the exchange of operators and to describe the challenges of today’s organisation. The expert team shall describe several models for the operational operation of the air ambulance service, such as the current model with tenders, the model with public operation and the model with the operation of non-profit actors. Other models may also be considered. The advantages, disadvantages and risks of the different models shall be described. The expert group is free to propose a model, if any. The investigation shall be completed by the end of next year. The investigative instructions form the basis for the mandate and for the work of the expert group. This means that the expert group needs to describe today’s model and the challenges with it – the so-called zero option. That is what is the basis for comparing the effects of other models. I would like to remind you of the purpose of the investigation manual. It is a good basis for decisions on state action. The air ambulance is an important part of the emergency medical chain. With our housing pattern, the air ambulance is central to effective treatment, transportation and preparedness for acute illness and injury. It means a lot to the safety of the population. It is therefore important that a future decision on the operation of the air ambulance service is well-founded and thoughtful. An incomplete or missing investigation will increase the risk of decisions being taken that cannot be implemented, that produce undesirable effects, or that involve the depletion of society’s resources. Air ambulance services are important for the safety of the population, and we cannot make decisions about future organisation without all aspects of the matter being fully elucidated. The mandate of the expert group is in line with the investigation manual, and this will provide us with a basis for making decisions on future operations. Finally, I would like to remind you that the investigation will also be sent to the hearing before the government decides on how to organise the operation of the service when the existing contracts expire.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e1208	The investigation that has been carried out is commissioned by Stortinget, and what the Stortinget has asked for is that one should investigate public operations or non-profit operations in the future. In the setting where this was dealt with, the minority, consisting of the Left, the Advance Party and the Right, argued strongly for the excellence of the tender system and how well it worked, and subsequently the Council of State has added that one should also examine the organisation of the day. It is not about whether to measure the current organisation against the future organisation, but about whether to have it as an alternative as a presenter. With the experience that one now has, where a boat must put crisis measures into the crisis situation that has occurred and, as confirmed by the Council of State, must take more permanent action – for example, assessed at the hospital in Kirkenes today – is not a step towards strengthening public activity here and moving away from the tendering system?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e1213	I have started this investigation work. Then I am dealing with the investigation manual, and today's organisation is also to be assessed. I think that's wise and correct, because that's exactly what gives us the best possible decision-making basis in the future. The expert team shall also look at the experience from what has now happened, the experience from other countries and also on past experience from operator exchanges. This means that if the sample is for example: recommends continuing to use today's model, they may nevertheless have extensive proposals for improving today's model, so it is not necessarily such that it is only the exact way it has been done now, up against future solutions, which may be the evaluations from the sample. The selection may also propose improvements to today’s model if they do not recommend public operation or non-profit-making. I think having this whole spectrum is important when we're going to make this decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e1218	What is crucial for a sample is the mandate of a sheep, and the political signals given, and from this government and from the Right, Left and Advance Party in the position I referred to, there is still a strong glorification of the use of tenders. So, the state council here in the hall today on previous questions answered that he saw significant challenges with the former operator you had, after the previous bid. With today's operator there has been a complete crisis lately, but also throughout the whole harvest. In addition, last year the Council of State described to the Control Committee that it considered that it was not appropriate to impose an operating transfer requirement, given that it could challenge the EEA Agreement. If one has such an understanding, there will be a permanent problem with any business transfer, with any new operator. Does not the Council of State see the basic problems created by the tendering system and the need for a public operation in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e1225	No political leadership has been placed on the work of the sample. It is quite free, and the mandate is designed to enable them to choose to assess models other than those described in the mandate. What the representative addresses in his main question is to direct this sample fully politically, so that they can reach only one conclusion. That is, when we were supposed to make the decision, we would have made a decision based on something that was pre-concluded, without a good knowledge base. The Center Party can do that, but this government doesn't.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e1236	‘Babcock Scandinavian AirAmbulance was awarded the air ambulance service tender before establishing an organisation with management, aeroplanes, technical staff and pilots. The company did not have experience in ambulance air transport in Norway. How could the Air ambulance Service HF – LAT HF – conclude without carrying out its own vulnerability and risk analysis that Babcock was able to deliver a satisfactory quality, and does the Council subsequently have confidence in the management of LAT HF?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e1243	Babcock Scandinavian AirAmbulance is part of a large international group that delivers, among others. air ambulance services worldwide. Even before the contract was signed with Babcock, the HF Air ambulance service was the largest supplier of air ambulance services in the Nordic region. This is obviously an emergency force that we have benefited from over the past two and a half weeks, by being able to collect aviation resources from their operations in Sweden. Babcock has also previously provided services to the Air ambulance service through two winters with enhanced standby on Svalbard. It was therefore little that was to be told in advance that the company was not going to deliver the requested standby to which they have committed themselves. The acquisition project leading to the contract with Babcock was led by Hospital Purchases. In addition, the project and acquisition were externally quality assured by the recognised law firm Wikborg Rein. The companies that wanted to provide air ambulance services to the HF were carefully evaluated. The assessment of risks through the award of contracts is carried out in several ways and at different stages of the procurement process. Of course, this is done in the same way for all the providers. First, it is checked whether the operators can be pre-qualified. Then it is checked whether the airlines have sufficient experience and competence to deliver real offers with high quality requirements. It is then checked whether the companies are robust enough and have the financial resources to carry out such tasks, that they have technical approvals and licences, and that they have no outstanding balance with neither Norwegian nor foreign aviation authorities. A significant risk assessment of the individual provider has also been carried out in the requirements specification itself and through the assessment of the offers made by the carriers by the acquisition project. In order to ensure that the service was provided as agreed and in order to prevent deterioration of service content and standby, the Air ambulance service HF required all providers to deliver a propulsion plan for their own delivery. They had to describe their actual current situation and how they would deliver on the requirement of the competitive basis, identify the differences between them and make a plan to implement such a change. Companies then had to identify all risk elements in connection with start-up and operation. Companies also had to describe the compensatory and risk mitigation measures they would take to ensure a good delivery. These progress plans have subsequently been followed up in monthly contractual meetings signed to after take-off, both for the aircraft acquisition and for the helicopter acquisition from the previous year.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e1258	It's true that Babcock is part of an international company. What the council here says, is that it was thoroughly evaluated, that was a description of plans – but we know the result. What is a fact, however, is that it was the Swedish company Babcock Scandinavian AirAmbulance that was pre-qualified. It was the same Swedish company that also got the agreement with the Luftambulansdienst HF. And then the council further writes in response to the committee that LAT HF knew that the Swedish company was working to establish a Norwegian company for the services to be provided through the contract. The Norwegian company has the same name as the Swedish company, just that it says AS and not AB. The Norwegian company had no organisation, it didn't have pilots, it didn't have people on the ground, it didn't have planes, and it got its permit to fly until February/March 2019. Is that sound?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e1263	As I said earlier, I am not satisfied with Babcock's deliveries in this area. But the reasons are different. This is due, for example, to: the challenges of the transition between the two operators. It is one of the most important lessons to learn from, if you want to use this model in the future: how to ensure that there is real and good cooperation between a losing operator and a winning operator, for example. in the case of such a shift. Obviously, some of the challenges we experienced in this area at the beginning would have been less if we had the opportunity to have a moving transition. The challenges associated with what happened now in December are the technical conditions of the aeroplane. It is a real and correct assessment that if there are those types of challenges, aeroplanes shall be put on the ground. And it's this type of plane that's available for this type of operation in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e1268	The problems lie in the tender itself, who received the tender, and who is now implementing the tender. On 20 June the Council of State replied to the Control and Constitutional Committee: ‘The Ministry of Health and Welfare has no operational role in this acquisition and has not set any management requirements related to it.’;» In the context of the review of the aviation ambulance case by the Health Committee in 2018, Innst. 362 S for 2017-2018 asked Kjersti Toppe, member of the Committee, about risk and vulnerability analysis. Then the state councils answered: ‘The HF Air Ambulance Service has informed me that operator exchange risk analysis was not carried out specifically in the field of ambulance fly acquisition.’ Furthermore, it has been stated by the Council of State that what LAT HF stood for here was legal assessments, whether it was under the EEA Agreement not to carry out an activity transfer – and the Council of State joined it. Has the government continued to trust the management of LAT HF, which has done such a bad job?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e1285	I explained in my first answer about the thorough assessments that had been made, and it is more obvious than the individual quotations that the representative makes in his question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e1293	This question, from the representative of Tore Hagebakken to the Minister for Health, is raised by the representative of Ingvild Kjerkol.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e1298	‘The air ambulance service in North Norway is impaired. The operator does not deliver under contract. The county board in Troms and Finnmark has raised the level of preparedness. Health Nord has put a stop to crisis. Nordlys recently reported that the technical failures that put four of the operator’s aeroplanes on the ground were known to the Air Ambulance Service HF as early as August. How will the Council of State ensure that any other technical, organisational or personnel deficiencies that may impair preparedness this winter are published and addressed?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e1305	It is true that the recent events of technical challenges have resulted in an increased preparedness of the HF, Health North and County State Department of Troms and Finnmark. Fortunately, we are now above the worst in terms of these concrete technical problems, but we are still following the situation closely. I receive, as mentioned above, daily updates on the emergency situation. This is publicly available information that can be found on the HF website. The daily reports show the state of preparedness for the previous day and what is expected the next day. The overview shows whether the different aeroplanes have been or are expected to be out of service. The reason for the release is also given: There may be unforeseen technical problems arising that need to be remedied before the aeroplane can continue, or planned oversight and maintenance tasks. There may also be a lack of operational crew due to a disease or a lack of coverage in the roster of the operator. There may also be a lack of a medical crew for the same reasons. Rest periods may also be a cause, i.e. ‘flightd at duty time’, resulting in assigned rest for the crew. In addition to this, the same report will also provide an overview of the additional resources allocated to the service. When you look at the failure of preparedness over time, you will see that it is due to a combination of several factors. There were particular technical errors in the aeroplane navigation system during the take-off that were the problem. This fault alone resulted in a total loss of 30 days. This error was corrected in cooperation with the manufacturer. After this, lack of pilots has been the biggest challenge, and a rear guard system that has not been properly in place. According to Babcock, the seven superstitious pilots on the Gardermo had that they couldn't use anywhere else. At the same time, the company lacked seven pilots at the bases in Kirkenes, Alta and Brønnøysund. In the context of Babcock and the local pilots’ association entering into a new collective agreement where this was resolved, the readiness to improve significantly before the weekend 6-8. of December. I hope, of course, that this trend will continue now that the technical challenges have been solved. In addition to this, I am not aware that there are other known challenges ahead of us, but I will, of course, follow closely with this in the future. I am concerned that everyone, and not least healthcare at all levels, needs to be kept constantly informed about the aviation ambulance situation. There is also an obvious potential for improvement that I expect the Air ambulance service to follow up through meetings with stakeholders and central organisations. Tomorrow, there will also be a large meeting with the staff of the service, the Air Safety Authority, the HF and Babcock Air ambulance services, to provide information on the current situation and also to answer questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e1324	The fact that the service practises more publicity both on its internal and on its external websites was not sufficient for the technical challenge we experienced a few weeks ago could be said to be known – neither for health professionals locally nor for the state council here in the hall, as he has previously stated. What has been known has been the challenges the new operator has had with staff. So Babcock has to hire about seven new coroners and at the same time upgrade seven captains. How far has this process come? And how and for how long will that process affect the preparedness and manning situation? In the spring of 2018, it was announced that such a process could take up to nine to twelve months from the announcement of the posts until a pilot has completed his course and is ready for unlimited service. Does the Council of State consider that the aid provided by the Defence Council in February is now sufficient?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e1329	I perceive that a major cause of the pilot deficiency earlier, before this happened with the technical conditions, was related to the release of the seven pilots who did not serve in the north, to the north. It was solved in an agreement with the local pilots' association. We also saw an immediate improvement in the follow-up to the contract from Babcock. I have not prepared an answer to the specific question asked by the representative, so I may have to come back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e1336	The state air ambulance service HF takes strong self-criticism in its own evaluation report for the whole process. The risk of operator switching was not detected early enough. In reply to the representative Lundtigen a little while ago, the Council of State said that it was unlikely that the operator would fail to deliver. But when Babcock won the competition in the summer of 2017, the company had not hired a single pilot. Nevertheless, Babcock came out of the assessment made by the Air ambulance service in the context of the competitive bidding process. The company got ten out of ten possible points of competence. The reason for awarding the contract to Babcock is that the company has offered the same competence as the competitor. Today we know the challenges, two years later the personnel situation is not solved. Does the Minister of Health take the same self-criticism as his company?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e1341	It will be that the group of experts we have set up will also review all these experiences. They will also provide assessments of the job that has been done. It is important that the companies that have held direct operational responsibility also carry out their own evaluations so that they can improve the way they work. It's always going to be like that. And then everyone can learn from it and look at what you can do differently. I am therefore pleased that the Health Authority has today said that they will also go into the matter. It is likely to be able to provide health care and health care managers with some lessons that we can take with them.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e1349	‘The government is responsible for ensuring Norway’s digital capacity. Swedish authorities regularly obtain knowledge of the need for IT security competence. Sweden’s estimated need for IT study places is far higher than that of Norway. The ICT industry in Norway believes that the dimensioning is too small and that Norway will slow down without a better decision-making basis. Why will the Council of State not establish a comprehensive and up-to-date knowledge base on the need for persons with ICT security competence?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e1356	We have a good knowledge base on recent dates on these needs: Nav conducts annual business surveys. The Committee of Competences has assessed ICT competence and ICT security in particular. NIFU conducts regular candidate studies. NIFU's large employer survey of March 2019 map employers' experiences with graduates. A 2017 NIFU report on ICT security competences in the labour market points to concrete needs. In a short time, there will be more recent reports that will increase knowledge: The Committee of Competences will deliver its third report in February 2020. The analyses where digital competence is expected to be included. NIFU has been commissioned to examine the labour market situation of people with ICT-related higher education. That report will be published in June 2020. ICT security is a central part of government work and of the long-term plan for research and higher education. We've done a lot to strengthen access to ICT skills. The investment in new ICT-related places of study provides room for nearly 1,600 more students each year. Part of the increase is reserved for ICT security education. In 2017 and 2018, a total of 62 ICT recruitment posts were allocated, with emphasis on ICT security and cryptology. The 2020 budget represents 18 new posts. In addition to several ICT and security candidates, efforts are helping to strengthen institutions' professional environments. The efforts are thus increasing the academic research in ICT and in computer science that is necessary for us to succeed in the digital transformation. The 2020 budget strengthens basic ICT research by 43 million. kr. In 2014, 10,700 students were registered in the ICT field, while almost 14,900 students were registered in 2019. In ICT security study programmes as a speciality, there have been more than a double in the number of students since 2014. ICT places of study are being stepped up and will provide more candidates in the years to come. At the same time, candidates with a solid ICT master’s degree in workplace training will soon be able to specialise in ICT security. I will, of course, follow developments and continuously assess the need for action. I think we have a good basis for decision, which will be even better, and we also have the will to do what is needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e1394	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is not so easy to understand that a State Council responsible for research and higher education, in a government claiming that it prioritises digital security as high, argues against obtaining a proper and comprehensive knowledge base in such a significant field as the need for ICT security competence. Indeed, today’s decision-making base is a patchwork of small surveys, which, according to trade and professional organisations such as ICT Norway and NITO, are too small to identify the real ICT security needs beyond five to ten years in time. It must be an objective to make political decisions in the Ministry of Knowledge itself on the basis of the best possible knowledge. Does the Council of State feel that the organisations that are wearing the shoes in this case are wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e1401	I think we have a good basis for decision making. That doesn't mean we don't have challenges in this field, because we do. One of the challenges we face concerns security clearance and the possibility of security clearance. A total of 62 recruitment positions have been allocated in 2017 and 2018 in ICT, with a focus on digital security and cryptology. At the same time, we know that out of 62 scholarship holders for just security and cryptology, there are 14 Norwegian citizens and 30 foreign nationals, and 18 of these posts are unoccupied on August. It gives us some challenges that aren't immediately easy to solve. It is linked to the fact that, on the one hand, we are concerned with the international aspect of research – it is the best minds to compete on the ground – while at the same time respecting our national interests and ensuring the necessary competences.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e1408	I also thank you for this answer, although it gives a little bit of déjà vu to the answers Arbeiderpartien got when we proposed a comprehensive living conditions study for students. This, too, contradicted the government and argued that the individual studies that already existed provided a good enough picture of the situation. After pressure, the government turned around, and the living conditions survey comes. Now the state council itself mentions competence in cryptology. Then I would like to remind the Council of State that the government was at first completely unwilling to take that responsibility. They pushed the challenges down on institutions before finally turning and spending funds on research into crypto- and ICT security – the last time this was a public issue. My question to the Council of State is: does the Council of State not see that a need-monitoring would be a reasonable assurance to achieve more targeted priorities and thus improve the ability of the government to ensure critical national competence?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e1417	We have a lot of knowledge about this field. We know where the challenges are, and our challenges now are just targeting our actions so that we get to grips with the challenges we have. One of the things we do in the state budget for 2020 is just to make it possible for 18 new scholarship holders. Then we give them in a way that makes sure that the 18 who get the scholarships have or can get the security clearance, precisely because we know that's one of the challenges we have in the future. This is a government that has shown a willingness to bet on that field. We've increased the annual admission of students in ICT by 1,600 new students. We have raised research both through recruitment positions and through the long-term plan for research and higher education, one of which is about technology.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e1427	‘The horse-keeping industry is a major food business operator which generates approx. 16 500 annual works throughout the country. Now the alarm bells are ringing in the industry, and there are large cuts that will hit jobs and jeopardize education and recruitment within the industry. If the framework conditions are not improved, we will also be cut off in animal welfare research, protection of endangered breeds and cut off the possibilities for different therapy treatments, Horse in Health is an example. The offers at the riding clubs will also be affected. What will the Council of State do to safeguard the horse industry?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e1434	The use of horses is diverse and the business activities related to horses are complex and extensive. I would like to point out, at the outset, that the state budget is allocated annually to the conservation of national horse species, that the organisation Horse and Health is receiving organisational support from the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, and that in 2018 the Ministry launched a National Horse Guidance Officer to help raise awareness of the social benefits and nutritional potential of Norwegian horse-keeping. The part of the horse industry that is experiencing particular challenges today is the one that receives income from gambling directed by Norsk Rikstototo, i.e. bus and galloping, in particular. Since 2017, there has been a decrease in the turnover of Norsk Rikstoto. The regulated players in the Norwegian gaming market experience strong competition from actors in other countries active in Norway and requirements are in place to strengthen the accountability of Norwegian Rikstototo’s gambling. Several concrete measures are being taken by the government to strengthen the Norwegian monopoly model and to counter competition from foreign gambling. A proposal for amendments to the broadcasting law in order to stop television advertising for foreign gaming companies has been at the hearing. The payment intermediation ban has been reinforced in order to put an even greater end to transfers of deposits and profits between non-resident gambling companies and Norwegian banks and financial institutions. It is also considered to introduce DNS alerts, i.e. a warning to a player that a website offers gambling that is not allowed in Norway. This comes in the proposal for new gambling. In the context of the work on new gambling, the government has decided to carry out an assessment of how horse games will be organised in the future. The Ministry of Culture and my department assesses whether the Norwegian Rikstototo concession should be continued or whether the horse games should be transferred to Norwegian Tipping when the concession expires in 2021. The assessment will focus primarily on how we can ensure the best possible consideration for responsible games in the future, but in this work I want to be concerned with taking good care of the interests of the horse sport.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e1445	The last thing was good to hear, and that's well and good all that the council lists up of investigations and what's to come. But I had hoped that the Council of State could help me understand that it is a crisis. It's a imminent crisis, and it's been notified over several years, at least for the last three to five years, where the industry has visited us as decision-makers, at different levels, and said that now the yellow lights light up. Then a number of changes were made that led to the collapse of turnover and increased competition from foreign gambling companies, on which the Council of State is involved, and which the Council of State really ought to ensure that they did not operate in Norway, by blocking them. So this is a very serious situation. There are thousands of workplaces at stake. I hope that the Council of State today can say that she will take action that can help the industry in months to come. If not, there is a great risk that this industry can get a break in which it can be very difficult to fix.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e1452	I mean, by what I've said now, that we show that we've taken concrete action. We allocate some money to the Ministry of Agriculture's budget. I would also like to remind the representative that it has been well in the last twenty years, if not more than that, a totaliser charge, which we have now for the first time made a reduction of, by quite a number of percentages. When the representative also warns that there have been problems over the year, it is one of the important steps I think we need to take. I am also concerned that the horse industry is doing a good job because it gives money to organisations outside the industry, which create many good leisure activities for children and young people, which I believe is important for society. So it's not like I'm closing my eyes to this industry. I'm very busy caring for the industry, and I think the representative is too.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e1461	Yes, I can assure you that the representative and the Labour Party are. We have proposed to strengthen the industry by 100 million. kr from 1 January 2020 because it is necessary. We've been getting the signals for a long time. It is true that this is a comprehensive business offering many good offers, including to young people and others, including: addicted to sleep. It has not been long since the Minister of Health visited Tune ridesenter, where they have a good offer. It's okay to take concrete action, but now the permeability warnings in this industry are ready on the table. There is a danger that they will be sent out in just a few weeks, because there is a crisis in the industry. I had hoped that the Council of State could confirm here that she will now sit down with the industry again and come up with immediate measures that will enable the industry to bear this further in months to come, until all these investigations on how this will look in the future are completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e1470	I still believe that we have taken action, for some of what the representative refers to, among other things. various horse varieties and Health and Horses receive organisational support and support directly from the Ministry's budget. I have also taken action in relation to the toalisator charge. But I still want to work on it and get the investigation of whether we should look at Rikstototo together with Norsk Typing – precisely because they have different rules around them, which makes it also challenging for Norsk Rikstototo. I am concerned that this is an industry we are going to pursue, while I also have in my head that it is an important part for us to ensure that we also manage to have measures for those who have gambling addiction. Both of these things we have to be able to have in our head at once.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e1484	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-12-18.ana.ud273e1498	There is no record available. This way, today's maps are processed. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
