ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e28	The called alternate of the Nordland County, Kjell-Idar Juvik, now takes the seat. Three permit applications are available: by the Højres Storingsgruppe on sick leave for the representative Astrid Nøklebye Heiberg from 27 March until further notice from the Christian People's Party on sick leave for the representative of Torhild Bransdal from 28 March until further notice on the welfare permit of the representative of Kjersti Toppe of the Central Party on 28 March On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For the West Agder State: Per Sverre Kvinlaug For Hordaland County: Hans Inge Myrvold For Oslo: Mats A. Kirkebirkeland
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e82	Mats A. Kirkebirkeland is present and wants to take a seat. The representative, Sandra Borch, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e89	On behalf of the big business representatives Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum, Siv Mossleth, Geir Adelsten Iversen and myself, I would like to make a proposal on enhanced helicopter preparedness in North Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e94	The representative of Audun Lysbakken will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e99	On behalf of Kari Elisabeth Kaski, Lars Haltbrecken, Arne Nävra, Mona Fagerås, Karin Andersen, Freddy André Øvstegård, Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes and myself, I would like to propose climate strike for climate change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e104	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e120	On Monday the Stortingen received a message from the Prime Minister's office saying that Prime Minister Erna Solberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e129	We have a dramatic weekend behind us with the rescue operation off the Norwegian coast. Hustadvika is a dramatic coastal stretch, and a large cruise ship came in distress. There was also a place along our coast where there is great rescue capacity and – let me say – world-class quality. We're impressed by what we saw from rescue work this weekend. But the question is, what about the situation further north in our waters? I saw for a while that the head of the Main Rescue Center in North Norway said that there are twice as many events on the sea now as 15 years ago, and the question is: Is the capacity for rescue twice as good? Or, more basic, is it good enough? Cruise traffic is heading north. We can imagine how it would be with the distress of this ship if it had happened north of Svalbard. Today we saw a picture in a newspaper where there was a cruise ship with 4,500 passengers and 1,300 crews to berth on Svalbard, and we can imagine what would happen if they came in distress. In the north from January to April there have been 20 calls of cruise traffic, up to 20,000 passengers, so there is a lot of activity, and it is increasing. Norway has search and rescue responsibilities in these areas of the Arctic. It was an agreement that was negotiated in the Arctic Council in my time as Minister for Foreign Affairs. The question is: is Norway following up with the capacity needed? It could never be like outside Hustadvika and on land, but are we something close to being able to say that it is acceptable and safe? On Svalbard we have two rescue helicopters and the employment man's ship, which is otherwise in storage parts of the year. The coastguard sails in the large area. We demand the type of ship that can sail, the polar code opens for it. But the question is: is Norway equipped to discharge its responsibilities for search and rescue in North Norway, in the Arctic – with increasing cruise traffic and commercial traffic out and in by the Arctic? How does the Prime Minister see that we can possibly strengthen that capacity to achieve the goals that we should set ourselves?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e142	I fully agree that we have been through a demanding and difficult weekend, but we have also shown a readiness that has been significant, and not least seen an effort from the crew, both those who were on the boat, those who were in the rescue facilities, and those who were in the apparatus to receive on land. That's all the reason we give them credit, and it's shown that, in one of the perhaps most demanding operations we've had in many, many years, we have a readiness that can be used, which is well trained and well managed. Part of the cooperative principle on which we base all preparedness proved to work. But then it's absolutely right that we in the north will have much bigger challenges, especially as far north as north of Svalbard. There we do not have the capacity today to handle the same type of operation. There are some important elements that we've been working on. One of the things we announced to the Stortinget in the fall of the state budget, that the Ministry of Justice is working to assess solutions that cover the needs of the rescue services for helicopters in the north. So it's about a good distance between the helicopters that are located, and of course it's about Tromsø and the situation around Tromsø. We announced in the budget statement that this is something the Ministry of Justice is working on in connection with the entire helicopter situation in the north. In addition, we have two important measures. One of the reasons for choosing Orion planes was not only military, but also that the Orion planes, the new ones, in the new concept, can contribute more to search and rescue operations to release fleets, which they have trained in recent years. Making sure that we have a communication device, a satellite device, that allows you to actually communicate from the Arctic, and that has also been a discussion theme here in the Storting, is also an important priority that we hope to get in place. In addition, we have increased capacity in other areas. Then we have to use the legislation, and we are now working on the question, together with other Arctic countries: what rules and limitations can we set for, for example. traffic and self-sufficiency?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e153	It is a little unclear to me whether the Prime Minister believes that the situation is adequately addressed now, saying that we are assessing some capacities. I believe we are far behind. The question is whether we need to establish a base on Svalbard for search and rescue, and whether we need to strengthen the capacities and tighten the legislation on what is required for ships sailing in the areas. This is about capacities and matching capacities. We have discussed this in this Chamber in the context of preparedness, preparedness for terrorism, in the past. The National Audit Office found yesterday that the oil preparedness in the Barents Sea, where there is growing activity, is not good enough. It is said that the authorities have not provided oil protection that is well adapted to the specific circumstances of the northern regions, and they write that the coordination of oil protection in the Barents Sea is not sufficiently clear, and that is critical. Does the Prime Minister agree with this assessment, and if yes – what does she intend to do with it?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e160	First of all, I said that we, in cooperation with other countries in the Arctic area, are working on possible regulations and have discussions about what kind of traffic we can have, and what requirements we can set. The second is that no, we don't have enough preparedness in the north to deal with a situation of the kind that we had outside Hustadvika. It's too far up there, and the question will always be whether it's rational and will be right that we should have so much resources up there in case something happens, or whether there are other rules. This is a work that is in progress. There's going on between several countries, and there's a discussion that we have to take, but I don't think we can say we're satisfied with the preparedness we have, given the big crisis case that's going on in this context. With regard to the Riksrevision's observation, we've said that we're taking it absolutely seriously. We're going to work and follow it up. One of the things we've done in this government is, among other things, focusing on more innovation and innovation in the field of oil protection. Therefore, there is a separate base, a separate organisation that will work on innovation related to this in the Lofoten and the West Pole.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e169	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e174	Helicopters have discussed several times with the Prime Minister and I, and they are important on land in the north, where there is also increased activity. But the rescue activity we have with helicopters in the north is not just weak, but it's going down. I want to come back to what the Prime Minister so far had to say about the question of a rescue helicopter base in Troms. We have asked the Minister of Emergency Response that question and received a rather unclear answer. It is such today that between Banak and Bodø there is an area that is not covered – it is in the middle of Troms – out to the sea and also for the activity on land. There is obviously a hole in the preparedness we can offer at sea, for both those who work there with fishing, transport and those who travel for food, but also on land where there is race and accidents etc. My question is a little more specific: Will the government support the Workers' Party and go in for a rescue helicopter base in Troms?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e179	I have not seen that the Workers' Party has proposed money to a rescue base in some of its alternative budgets. I would like to remind you that this is something the government wrote about in the government budget in the autumn, that we worked on it and were to find out more. The challenges, of course, are both local and economical, how we're going to operate it, whether we're going to hire helicopters. With the purchasing system that we have today, it'll take a long time before the helicopter comes to such a base, and then there's questions about which models. We're working on all of this to get it in. Then we're working on solving the challenges of helicopter in the north. We are to have helicopter capacity for the police when the Bell helicopters are to be moved on, so that we can ensure that we have the ultimate terrorist preparedness, which is counter-terrorism, which means that we need to gather Bell helicopters on the Back to ensure that our special forces can carry out the essential task of having maritime counter-terrorism.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e186	Jonas Gahr Støre – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e191	Here the prime minister came into the Bell helicopters, and I would like to end by asking questions about it. In the context of the examination of the defence long-term plan, it states that ‘the day’s distribution by nine helicopters on Bardufoss and nine helicopters on Back will continue until alternative helicopter capacity is established on Bardufoss, estimated by 2019-2020’. New capacity is not in place. We're waiting for the NH90 helicopters and the new rescue helicopters. Nevertheless, the government is moving the Bell helicopters, with the exception of three. We see the needs for these helicopters in rescue, whether there's race in the mountains, or it's helping the health services in the north. I would like to ask the question: Does the Prime Minister think today, in March 2019, that helicopter preparedness in North Norway is satisfactory?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e201	In March 2019, helicopter preparedness in North Norway is just like that in recent years. No helicopters have moved on. A process is being used to submit tenders related to police needs to ensure that the police have the emergency services they need for their calls, for which the Bell helicopters have been a back-up device. Helicopters won't be moved until we have this in place. This was announced and reported to Stortinget in the state budget, in the reference of the helicopter situation, where we also reported that the government looked at the need to establish an additional helicopter base in the north, to fill the gap that is, and in the future will work to address just these questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e208	Cecilie Myrseth – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e213	On Monday, Countess Elisabeth Vik Aspaker called for an alarm. Had the ship that was en route from Tromsø, had had trouble off the coast of Troms, one would be short. Quote Vik Aspaker: «With today's readiness, I am strongly in doubt whether we would be able to handle such an event off the coast of North Norway.» Tourism is increasing, it's rising northwards. Ship traffic is increasing, business challenges and activity is increasing, it is increasing northwards. Troms is the country's most vulnerable state, unfortunately we have most perished in the mountains. The local population uses mountains more than before. Nordic policy is also in practice active in many ways, but there is also the question of security and preparedness. My question to the Prime Minister is: how will she answer the sharp criticism that comes from the county and former State Council of the Right, Elisabeth Vik Aspacer?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e225	The county manager is responsible and will work with both planning and overview and ensure that we can call for sufficient resources. There are two sides of increased economic activity in North Norway. One of them is that the increased activity also gives more capacities that we can draw on. In Hustadvika it wasn't just state preparedness that was used, it was help from a lot of others that could help. It is precisely that when there is more activity — in fact even when there is more oil and gas activity — there will be more resources to help in a given crisis situation, more to attract. What's important is that we have the interoperability principle, which underpins all the preparedness we have, which means that we have an overview of the resources, we know how to work together, and we can draw on those resources. It's County's job. It is also County's job to inform us that they may need more. And as I remember, in the case of helicopter base, the government said that we're going to investigate that question in connection with the state budget for the autumn, and that it's inside as part of our work on preparedness in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e236	Cecilie Myrseth – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e241	The problem is that the Prime Minister does not answer my question. What are you going to do? You refer to what happened this weekend, but the question is, what would happen if this had happened in the north? That's also the background for Vik Aspaker criticizing the situation we're in. I also tried to get answers from the Prime Minister's Minister of Emergency, who could not answer these questions well on Monday. The answer was that she had been sitting for only two months. The Prime Minister has, of course, been sitting longer than that and may be able to answer some questions. So I have a very specific question – and I hope she does not spend her time answering what the Workers' Party has put into its alternative budget or not. The Workers' Party has supported proposals for a rescue helicopter base in Troms. We're going to do that in the future as well. The concrete question, which must be easy to answer, is: Will you support a base in Troms, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e250	The government has determined that we need to investigate this. When we do that, it's because we see a need for it. Then we'll figure out how. We informed the Storting that we would start, as part of the government budget of the autumn. The debate that preceded this, on helicopter capacity in the north, was little about rescue helicopters in Tromsø, but about the needs of the defense and the needs of the police. We delivered in the State budget both in terms of how to address the needs of the police, and in terms of the long-term work – with which we will return to the Stortinget – where we will also look at models of how such preparedness and a new rescue helicopter might work, and how quickly it is possible to get it in place. As far as the activity is concerned, as said, the County's responsibility is to look at both the resources you have, what you can work with, and to tell us what additional reinforcements you need.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e259	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e264	Prime Minister Erna Solberg chose to raise Orion aircraft in his first reply to the Labour Party leader, Jonas Gahr Støre. Thanks to the defence agreement on which the Right, the Workers' Party and the Advance Party stand together, there has been a great deal of turmoil about the Orion planes and the capacity they have. No later than this weekend, the Armed Forces Operational Headquarters asked for the Orion planes to come on the wings and assist in the major accident that was outside Molde. But the answer was that you didn't have the capacity. There was no crew to man the Orion planes – precisely because of the unrest there were no personnel to man them. Thanks to the government's own policy, that capacity was not available for the weekend's rescue. Is there a situation the Prime Minister can live with – that it is political decisions that, if the accident is over, one can't stop with that capacity? The second prime minister in the discussion is helicopter capacity in North Norway. But again, thanks to the defence agreement that the Right initiated, there is now a reduction in helicopter capacity in North Norway. All the heavy professional bodies have been crystal clear on it: in meetings with the main rescue center in Bodø they say that it is irresponsible to move the Bell helicopters. The chief of police has been very clear about this: it is very bad for the readiness in North Norway to move them. The county, which has the highest responsibility for preparedness, has been crystal clear in its feedback: moving the Bell helicopters weakens preparedness. So Prime Minister Erna Solberg has to answer this: by the end of the weekend, the Orion planes didn't have capacity because of political decisions, and we know that the Bell helicopters are to be moved. Have there been good decisions or have there been bad decisions?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e271	We have decided to move the Bell helicopters to ensure that we are prepared for some of the most difficult acts of terrorism that could affect Norway. This applies, inter alia, to: maritime counter-terrorism, which it has been important for us to have, and which has been important to see a real scenario. What is it? It is not a cruise boat that comes into operation for natural reasons — it is a cruise boat that comes into operation for man-made reasons. That is why we have spent a lot of money ensuring that we have a functioning maritime counter-terrorism business in Norway, and then it is important for us to have enough helicopter capacity. That's the nucleus of why we're moving these. That is the readiness of those who do not have alternatives to this. Just to underline it, that's what we don't want to do if you don't move them. Then we have said that we should implement compensatory measures in the north. One is what we are now working on – making sure that we get the police needs covered by renting helicopters. This was what the Stortinget was informed about in the autumn, and which the Stortinget took a stand for in the autumn. So there's a bid that's going to go out in the course of the year, and the capacity will hopefully be in place in the course of the year, so that the police fill their need to move and use helicopters. The third element I informed Stortinget about was that we also looked at the rescue helicopter capacity and evaluated it. When it comes to the Orion question, it's like our Orion planes are really overtime. This government chose to go away from the concept that the head of defense had devised, that we were going to use satellites and drones and not have the kind of capacity that the Orion planes represented. We chose to say that we are buying new P-8 – and we are in that phase.Then Orion has capacity challenges both in terms of crew and flight hours, because the planes are very old, and we are waiting for new ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e280	The prime minister is responsible for the country's preparedness. She chose in her first answer to raise the Orion capacity, that they could put fleets on water. We know that another important part of their capacity, which is a main capacity, is that they have the opportunity to have communication systems when the crisis is total – as it could almost be this weekend. This weekend, they tried from the Defense Operational Headquarters to send Orion planes down, and they didn't have the capacity to assist in that action. Fortunately, it went well, because it was so close to the country that there were other types of communication channels that worked. Had this crisis been outside of North Norway, Svalbard or other places where you don't have that kind of communication capacity, the crisis could be total. Can Prime Minister Erna Solberg, as the chief in charge of the country's preparedness, accept and accept that the Orion planes do not have the capacity to assist in the type of major events that we saw on the moorings last weekend?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e286	This Prime Minister, through the work the government has done with the long-term plan, has actually ensured that we have such capacity for the future as well. When we buy P-8, when we invest in it, that means that in the long term we also have the capacity that the Orion planes have had. The Orion planes have actually gone on overtime for too long. Then you have to discuss who has what defence concept. There were several parties in Stortinget that just wanted to continue operating today's Orion aircraft, which also have limited capabilities for a technical reason, simply because they're getting old. I don't know the details of why they said no, or that they couldn't participate. I'm going to investigate that, to know what was the right reason for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e293	Social violence Vedum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e298	It is a direct consequence of the government's own policy that there are major crew problems and capacity challenges in that monitoring environment, and it is the government that has to bear responsibility for it and the Prime Minister who has to bear responsibility for it. In today's evening post there was a big article about another part of our preparedness, about the police. Once again, eight out of ten police say that preparedness has not improved since the police reform. A lot of people say it's getting worse. Nine out of ten say that the availability of the police to the public has become worse, and the figures show that the capacity to get cases away has also fallen, and that the processing time is longer. Sigbjørn Aanes, First House Counsellor and former Secretary of State, took credit for the word near-police reform earlier this winter, and he said that it probably wasn't his best idea, and that he probably hadn't done it again. Does Erna Solberg agree with his First House employee Sigbjørn Aanes that the near-police reform is not the best'spinned' by the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e305	I believe that the police reform, no matter what you call it, is incredibly important. It contributes to better legal certainty, and it helps us to investigate the new type of crime in a better way than before. That, I believe, is an important reform. In fact, I realized that large parts of the Stortinget felt that there was a need to make changes in the police structure, with the police's capacity, both after July 22nd and also because the crime scene in general is changing. What we've seen in these years, where we've invested more and researched more, is, among other things, what we've seen in these years. that what has been a major priority in common in the United Kingdom, namely child abuse, is now much more a matter for the police to use resources and spend resources on. It's not like there's 200 reviews coming up. These reviews come because you start digging into one thing, and then you find a lot of relatives. That means that this reform is important. The judge will show how good it will be. I think in a couple of years you'll see that this was absolutely right to do. We're in the implementation phase. When this happens, I think we have a much better police force.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e310	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e315	I think it's a little sad to hear that the Prime Minister is setting things up against each other – counter-terrorism against the preparedness in the north, child crime against the police's presence throughout the country. What a number of respondents have asked about now is the emergency situation in the country. That's what it's all about in many of the questions. For them, it is true that they have said that it must be listened to by professionals, whether it is County, as an emergency officer in Troms, or it is the Central Rescue Centre. And professionals are deeply concerned about the emergency situation in the north. The centre party does not conceal that we believe that centralisation of important preparedness, whether it is defence, helicopter, ambulance or police, is an extremely bad idea. In addition to listening to professionals, one should also build on knowledge. My question is this: the centre party has previously proposed a comprehensive preparedness commission that can go through the various aspects of Norwegian preparedness, both local and national. Why does the government clearly say no to that?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e322	I think one of the important things – if I can connect the last two questions – is the police reform and its evaluation. One of the conclusions contained in the diffi material that has now been published from the follow-up evaluation is a clear conclusion that the preparedness and preparedness side has been strengthened through the close police reform. So there's some positive signs and some positive pieces associated with this. It's true that we've centralised parts of the Army and other things that we've centralized to North Norway. We've moved more activity northwards. We think that's right, because that's where the biggest challenges lie. That means that we have a larger power collection in the north of different activities. We do that both when it comes to practice and practice, and also when it comes to presence. Then we work continuously with enhanced preparedness. There are few things that we have prioritised as much money as readiness within budgets in recent years. That's why we have a much better training police, we have a lot more practice, we have a much better collaboration, and a little bit of collaboration so we actually did this weekend.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e331	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e336	Friday was a historic day. The size was besieged by the future, by thousands of thousands of children and young people who were here to demand climate action. We now see a climate uprising from below, which is going to change our policies and our society. The government's reaction has been to believe that the students should not strike, but rather discuss the climate in the social profession. At the same time, I saw a violent reaction from the government that a group of researchers and writers have written a chronicle in the Evening Post – it's a very rebellious thing to do, to write a critical chronicle in the Evening Post. They were subsequently accused by the government of a lack of democratic mentality. What we see is a government that is becoming more stressed by climate strikes and climate uprisings than by climate crisis. The students out here cried out tactfully and often: Where is Erna? I know that the Prime Minister was in Brussels to celebrate the EEA Agreement – I hope it was pleasant – but I still think the question can be understood in a slightly transferred sense: where is the Prime Minister in climate policy? She's in charge of the sixth year. The targets for 2020 have been given up – although they have never been granted, they are probably approaching so much now that they are on the verge. Norway shall cut the emissions by 40 pst. by 2030, but the government's own documents show that one is not close to being on course for that. The young and the children who took the strike have asked us to go in for a target of – and a plan to reach – a 60pst cut for Norway. by 2030. Is the government planning an obligatory plan for Norway to cut 60 pst. of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e347	I am pleased – and I also hope that SV is, they should be – that this government actually has many important climate measures. When we entered the government offices, the gap was between the policies that then existed and our 2020 targets in the Kyoto agreement of 7.5 million tonnes – now there are 3. It's true that we're not quite in port, and we're working on it, but that means we've halved the gap, when it gets transcribed, with the policy and what's implemented. That means that policy contributes to lower emissions, and that we are getting closer to the goals we have set, than the red-green policy did when we entered the government offices. So I think it's important to have commitments, and then there's a link between what I did on Friday and the climate commitments. One of the most important things we are going to have as a framework condition from 2020 to 2030 is a new agreement with the EU that helps us not only in the quota sector to have a common solution to issues related to reductions but also in the non-quota sector. It's a tougher framework than any of what we've decided before in this room, because that means we're getting a path for our emissions, and every year we're going to reach that path. When we don't track, we have to do an extra amount next year. And we have to report. It's a pretty close follow-up that we're going to achieve our goals. That means we've set it -- the goal we get here is 40 pst. Then the government of the Granavolden platform has said 45 pst. for the non-quota sector. And we've said that we're going to work for the European Union to have a total of 55 p.m., so our quota-based sector, which has a lot of emissions in Norway, which is our competitive industry, will meet even more stringent requirements. Now, what we've seen in the last two years is that the allowance system is starting to work better, just because the price of the allowances is rising significantly. The price of allowances has tripled in a short time. That means that the framework conditions are completely different.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e356	Of all the excuses I've heard from this government, I think this was one of the best. It's nothing to boast that we were further away from the climate targets for 2020 when there were seven years left, than we are when there are nine months left. It should really be missing. But it is Erna Solberg who has been running through all these years and who is now making sure that we do not reach the climate targets for 2020. There'll be some limits to what Erna Solberg could owe others. This she must take responsibility for herself. And then I want to ask the Prime Minister another question. This is a government that, when it went on, put forward its eight main projects for Norway, and climate was not among them. It's a government that's not close to achieving its own climate targets. The emissions that have arrived have largely come from rainforest-depleting palm oil in Norwegian fuel tanks. Why on earth should those who strike, when Erna Solberg has such miserable results to point to now, believe that she will be able to achieve the 2030 climate goals?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e364	The representative Lightbaking knows better than to make a simple rhetoric about away explanation about what was measured in 2013 – or it was in the spring of 2014. What was measured was the projections of the measures the red-green government had put in place until then, and what effect they would have. Then, with the measures that have been taken since 2014 – and I would like to say that SV and others in Stortinget have also been involved – the gap has decreased considerably. So this isn't just because you didn't make it anymore, but it's actually the projection of the political decisions that were made under the previous government. I'm very much in favour of young people being active. I'm an old student politician and student activist and I've been fighting in front of Stortinget myself for other things. So I'm very much in favour of it, I think it's timely that young people give clear notice, and I'm glad that they do it on one of the most important challenges we have in the future. But that doesn't mean I agree with SV's "Stop the World and Fear the Climate" policy. We have another, which is about growth and protection, and we can fight climate challenges at the same time.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e371	There will be follow-up questions – Audun Light Bin.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e376	I guess it's the lack of climate action that can stop the world. It is absolutely right that we talk about projections, both in 2013 and now, but the big question was what to do between there. I am quite sure that it would have been possible – we know that, with all the proposals made in the Stortinget – to implement the measures that would have made it possible to achieve the 2020 targets. But this government has not taken the measures seriously. Let me ask you another question about the student's requirements. One of them was to stop the allocation of new areas to oil companies. More coal, oil and gas have been found in the world than is possible to burn if we are to achieve the climate targets. Climate change is brutal physics: if we fill the atmosphere with too much greenhouse gas emissions, it goes wrong. The real answer from this government to the children and young people has been to allocate 90 new blocks in which oil companies can apply for search licenses. Is there anything magical about the oil government waiting to find in these areas that makes it not going to contribute to global warming?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e383	Firstly, there will be demand for oil and gas in the future, and then there is always a question: Who is going to deliver it? In the case of gas, it is an important intermediate station on the road to Low Emission Europe. One of the reasons for world emissions is the increased use of coal. Fortunately, we now have the effect of increasing the prices of allowances in the EU area so much that the competitive position of gas can also be improved in the future. This means that coal, which emits twice as much CO 2 per unit of energy produced, will have a lower competitive environment. It's also an important part of a power structure in the future. The question is: are we going to leave this gas market entirely to Russia, or are we going to make sure that we are a predictable supplier of gas to Europe, produced in the area where we have the most stringent environmental requirements, and where we have put it under the quota system, and where we are going to replace coal with gas?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e391	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e396	What Norway will eventually have to realize is that there will not be room for exactly Norwegian exports of fossil energy, but not to other countries. For this reason, the consequences of the current policy are likely to be a major economic blow to Norway at a time in the future – an irresponsible economic policy. But let me go on to another of the strike requirements, and it's related to climate assistance and justice. We know that the poorest people in the world are hit hardest by what we can see today that is going on in climate change. We've seen some violent, violent storms in the Caribbean and in East Africa lately. This is why the issue of international efforts to help poor countries reduce their emissions – not least in order to adapt to the climate change that is taking place and that is to come – is on the agenda. Therefore, climate-stripping young people have required Norway to pay 65 billion. kr i assistance for climate purposes [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e403	We have said that we need to deliver 1 pst. of GNI for assistance. We're increasing the part that goes to climate action within assistance right now. Then it depends on how much GNI is increasing, how much more we are going to spend on climate and on those measures and on all other aid measures. But I will continue to say, in fact, that combating and coping with the eradication of polio, ensuring that reproductive health is prioritised, that more children survive the most difficult and dangerous day of their life, namely birth, and that we ensure that everyone is given twelve years of education and the ability to cope – to create long-term education – are also priority objectives of aid. That means that climate is going to be priority, but also to achieve all the other sustainability goals and make sure that we see the relationship between creating jobs, well-being [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e408	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e413	I thought I would go through all the demands that have been made. Until now, the Prime Minister has not really responded positively to any of them, but there are a few chances. When I was out with the kids on Friday, there was one who had a poster saying, "Yes to the Vy, no to the planes." Of course, I want to distance myself from the first bit, but in any case it was a point. For this government – not least through Avinor – does not work to reduce air traffic, but by increasing it. Millions of bonuses are awarded to airlines that establish new routes, premiums for traffic growth, etc. A central requirement in the climate strike is no to a third runway on the Gardermo, simply because we need to transform our transport systems in a climate-friendly direction. We don't need a new runway, we need a policy to shift traffic to more environmentally friendly modes of transport. [[President clubs]] Will the government scrap the work on a third runway?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e418	The government has not taken a position on the work on a third runway. We're not going to scrape it; neither have we agreed that it will be implemented. But it is important to do something about the emissions from air traffic. That's why we're committed to providing stricter requirements for the incorporation of biodiesel in the future, making sure that we produce enough biodiesel of the quality that makes it not at the expense of food production around the world, and also make sure that we challenge and use electric aircraft – even if it's far ahead, and even if some of us know in our stomach that the range anxiety is going to be extra strong in an electric plane, it's like there are other strategies around it. It might be interesting to hear, because if we're not going to work with e.g. to get people to travel to North Norway as tourists, if we are not going to do oil and gas business, if we are not going to do mineral extraction – the ‘non-n’ of SV’s policy becomes quite many, and when we talked about oil and gas before [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e425	If the representative Lighthouse is to go through all the slogans, both questions and answers should remain within the speaking time if we are to be able to complete this Questionnaire. Audun Lightbaken to follow-up questions, and I will be strict in speaking time below.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e433	I promise, President! Let me then – for the Prime Minister – advertise for SV's national meeting this weekend, where we are going to go through our plan for a green new deal for Norway, and how we are going to solve these problems and create jobs and new values. Young people have one demand, and that goes for transport. There have been many strange reactions from some adults, who have chatted with children and young people who have been on strike, and comments of the type ‘then you get to practice yourself’. However, it has been proposed by the strikers that a youth card be introduced for all public transport in Norway, i.e. one that can be national, which can apply to all under 20 years of age, and which gives them the opportunity to do exactly what they are asking for: to make it easier for them to make environmentally friendly choices in their everyday lives. Is a national Youth Card for Public Transport something the Prime Minister will consider?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e444	We are in the midst of a regional reform. I don't feel the need for us to shift tasks and priorities out of the regions now. Many regions have chosen to create this kind of youth card. It's a priority they do for their public transport. We can always say that national schemes are nice to make on top, but the problem is that then we empty the regions and local policies for meaningful tasks and for policy initiatives they can take. I record that this has been carried out in many municipalities in the past, as a political priority they have done. I think the sense is fairly well distributed, and I think young people should also direct their great commitment to the owners of high school, to their own future, and then perhaps also to collective cards – in that direction. The fact that we have a commitment to climate doesn't mean that we're going to centralize all decisions in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e455	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e460	Then we've been through all the demands of the climate strike, and the Prime Minister has actually said that she's against everyone – yes, maybe with a little exception, halfway, because the third runway she hasn't decided for. So there is no doubt that the distance between young people in Norway who require climate action and the government who controls our country is enormous. Let me ask you one last question about the environment and climate, and it is about the serious report that came from the National Audit Office on oil protection. To say it carefully: the message is critical. One of the main findings is: ‘The authorities have failed to ensure that oil protection is adequately adapted to the specific conditions of the northern regions.’ After all, we have to ask whether the Prime Minister can guarantee that the activity we have planned in the Barents Sea is safe from nature and from anyone who lives on the fishing resources – or can she not?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e472	Let me first say that I am happy to attend SV's national meeting when I realize that #all of this has now also had an avarice on the left hand side: that we are going to see all the things in the context. Then I am happy to see how to get jobs in Norway in the future – when you are not going to fly in this country, when you are not going to do oil business, and when you propose, over and over again, to cut things that help create jobs and other things. We will probably have plenty of opportunity to discuss that in the future too – but I am happy for anyone who sees more sectors in the context. For me, it is important to say that jobs and climate must go hand in hand, so the green has changed high priority for the government, and therefore many of the contributions to our policies now lead to companies that are competitive on new green technology. In the case of oil protection, we believe that the report provides useful information. Some of this was known in advance, and for some of it, measures have already been taken to make improvements. We have very strict demands in the north and are still going to have strict demands, and we are going to use the Riksrevision report to even more critically review the preparedness associated with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e481	Espen Barth Eide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e486	I was also a little surprised that the Prime Minister almost boasted that they were closer to meeting the Stockholm 2020 targets now, in 2019, than they were in 2012 and 2013. Something else would have been a big scandal. I believe that it is already extremely problematic that we are so far behind the goals that we put ourselves together in 2012. I was in the government that lasted until 2013, so I take on one seventh of the responsibility if the Prime Minister takes on six sevenths of the same responsibility. But the big question in this case is: shouldn't we all say to the students and young people that they are really right, that we have failed, that we haven't done enough – we have done a lot, but not enough? It's only eleven years left until this course has to be completely reversed, and we haven't done that yet. Shouldn't we tighten our grips even more clearly, so that we can answer them more properly than just saying that it's nice that they get involved?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e493	I think the representative must take a little more responsibility, for the 2020 target was set in 2008, not in 2012. So it was during the five years up to 2013 that you hadn't started to close the gap. In other words, it was climate reconciliation number one that set targets for 2020 emissions in Norway. I agree – and I have also written that in the evening post – that we have not been good enough. I think we rested too much on what was estimated in 2008, when we adopted the first climate agreement, that the quota prices were going to create a technology change. Then the quota prices were much lower than we all expected. We all heard, when the Workers' Party was a little bit opposed to making such a hard claim to domestic cuts, how important it was with the quota system. But we didn't get that effect. Now we're about to get it, because now the allowances have increased significantly.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e500	Espen Barth Eide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e505	Now also my point was that we should take collective responsibility for not having done a good enough job, but it is Erna Solberg who is in charge of the current government. It's true that the quotas are now going up a little bit, and that's a happy fact. It is also very positive that we see renewable technologies coming to the fore in the world, both in terms of zero-emission energy production and in terms of propulsion systems, for example. At the same time, we just received a report from the IEA, the International Energy Agency, that emissions are still rising, because although the renewable share is increasing, the total growth of emissions is still on the way. Then the question is whether we don't need even stronger grip than just the quota system – which, of course, I am a strong supporter – is that we need something in addition. Should we not look at it so that we, as perhaps the country that has earned the most per capita to contribute to these emissions, have a special responsibility to find out the technologies that can replace the demand for coal, oil and gas in the future around the world, and that it does not at all mean a huge increase in carbon capture and storage?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e512	We're just doing it through a lot of the technology we're doing in Norway. When we have created a market that is so big for electric cars and low-emission cars as we have done, and when we do it for ferries and throughout the maritime sector, it is a competitive advantage for Norway, but it also helps to produce the technology that enables us to move on to renewable energy sources and other energy sources in the future. It's an important obligation. We're still working on the CCS programs. We work, as you know, to make a decision in 2020/2021. We'll be done with the processes around the catch area either before Christmas or at the beginning of 2020. The storage part takes a little longer, and both of them have to be in place before we can make a decision. I tend to say that ‘catch and release’, i.e. when sports fishermen catch fish and release them again, is not an answer in terms of CCS. It's not to practice what we're doing; it's because it's going to have real effect if you're going to make a decision about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e520	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e525	Climate policy must also move into national practical action. Occasionally, a few impressions may be that the actions of this government are largely about prohibitions and increased charges. Now the government has been troubling it in the dialogue with the two industries that are most important to cut greenhouse gas emissions in the non-quota sector. The whole dialogue with agriculture on greenhouse gas emissions is under way. They have also cancelled the transport industry's own desire to have a CO2 fund, which can generate large greenhouse gas emissions in the next few years. They're getting a blank no from the government. Rather, the government wants to borrow state grants. So here's a business that wants to do a job. They've done it before, in connection with NOx emissions, and they'd like to contribute to a successful climate policy, and the government says no, as well as they've been troubling the whole dialogue with agriculture. Why does the Right – of all – have greater faith in both taxes and state subsidies than the need for industry to do a climate job?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e534	We wanted business to be there, but in the case of the model they wanted – where they wanted to take out the CO2 taxes from the state budget to put the funds into a fund that they themselves were to dispose of, instead of talking about the money that we have already set aside and that lies within Enova, and being part of that process and being involved in giving leadership for what is the most important technology – we eventually had a slightly different choice. We thought the industry should be involved in this, but with the choices we've made to step up CO2, that we're going to compensate the industries for CO2, we've chosen other ways in the future to bring about that technology change. We wanted to have the industry involved in that work, but not with that model, because we do not think we should not praise the pollution. That is what lies in the CO2 fund model. Some measures will receive money, while the others will be involved in financing it, but not paying a fee that they have paid and that they will have to pay in the future. But we're putting a lot of money into this very part: utility traffic in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e539	We're going to go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e544	As we know, 40,000 Norwegian school students throughout the country struck for the climate last Friday. The Greens support the demands of climate strikers, and we already have a policy that satisfies them: Climate strikes require 65 pst. climate-cut by 2030. The Greens have programmed to reduce emissions from Norwegian territory by 60 pst. by 2030. Climate strikes require $65 billion. kr annually for climate finance in developing countries. The Greens will introduce a climate percentage, where 1 pst. the national income is transferred annually from the oil fund to climate action in developing countries. In 2018 it would have been approx. 37 B.C.E. kr. Climate strikes require a halt in the distribution of oil licences. The Greens will stop opening new oil and gas fields on Norwegian base and start a gradual and planned phase-out of the petroleum activity over a 15-year period. We are proud to have moved this debate in Norway, because it is now possible to propose a closure of the oil industry – especially after the Riksrevision has revealed serious conditions in the oil industry in the northern regions. The Greens are inspired by the climate strike. We are the only party on the Stortinget that is close to meeting the demands of climate strikers today. We see that other parties now turn up their climate policy, and we encourage all other parties on Stortinget to do the same. Even our plans for a real green shift, a green new deal, are breaking. The Prime Minister has talked a lot about the government's existing policy, but little about concrete responses to climate strike demands. I therefore ask quite specifically: will the Prime Minister meet the climate strikers on their three main demands?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e565	On the government side, we're going to have an ambitious climate policy to contribute to the technological shifts that make us get new – President, the clock doesn't go, so now I get a lot of time.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e570	I have to go with you.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e575	We have an ambitious climate policy that allows us to also get to the green shift that we need. That doesn't mean we're at the same time getting Norwegian welfare out. The plan of the Green Party means to reduce Norwegian welfare. We will not be able to shut down Norwegian oil and gas activities in 15 years and have enough other legs to stand on, without having a significant impact on the number of jobs and on the economic development of Norwegian society. This means that it means a significant reduction in welfare for our country. But it's also important to have two thoughts in your head at once. We're going to solve the climate issue, and we're going to create jobs, because in the future, part of the resources we have may not be used because the cost of CO 2 is going to be higher. The quota price is now in the process of creating a shift, and it may be even higher in the future. Getting the good climate technology we run with could also help reduce consumer demand internationally. That's why I'm probably demanding a slightly different way, which both obligates well-being and preserves the climate, and not least a strong international commitment to getting with all the other countries to follow up their commitments. As emissions in the world now rise, it is not primarily due to the EU countries or the ETS, as could be heard on a previous issue, and the quota system there. It's actually due to emissions to other parts of the world, which we have to work to reduce, and to set up for the commitments they also made at the Paris meeting. We have stronger instruments. For example, we're sitting here. with half a billion dollars in this year's government budget that we have invested in Enova, for example. use of useful traffic — i.e. freight traffic in Norway — to ensure that it shifts to more green solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e589	I leave to the youth to assess whether they feel it was concrete answers. The Prime Minister has stated that the government has an ambitious policy to cut emissions, even though we have heard that climate scientists warn that we have already found more fossil fuels than the atmosphere tolerates that we pick up and teeth. Not only does the government release new oil blocks here in Norway, but the Norwegian government allows the state-owned Equinor to look for oil in an extremely vulnerable and inalienable natural area in Australia — Australia’s Lofoten, The Great Australian Bight. If we've already found too much, why are we looking for more in Earth's most vulnerable areas? My question is: does the Prime Minister understand, on the basis of this, that young people are fighting against the government's climate policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e598	I understand the commitment to doing something about the climate. I also notice that commitment when I go around talking to school students, when I go around talking to young people and students -- not just for the climate, but to do something about the world's poverty challenges, to create enough jobs, to make sure that we build up well-being, to fight diseases and other things. All of this requires that we have good, common, global solutions – not just in each country. If we are to focus even more on just solutions in our own country and not look beyond, it will be a challenge. Some of the challenge is that in many cases there are balances to be made. It's hard solutions, it's not black and white. This means, for example: At the same time, if the plan is to phase out the oil business in Norway in 15 years, it should not be said that everything is going to be as it was before. Then there will be a Norway with less opportunity to create the jobs that they expect to get in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e605	Kristoffer Robin Haug – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e611	Although we hear a milder tone here today, the Prime Minister has in the past gone out and encouraged the youth not to strike to fight for their own future. But those who will inherit the earth and are under 18 now have very few opportunities to influence this future, if they won't even use the power that lies in a good strike reaction. In view of the fact that today's young people have to sacrifice their own education to influence politicians, how does the Prime Minister stand to vote for 16-year-olds?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e616	There is a difference in substance between what I have said and what the representative explains that I have said. It's not like I've encouraged young people not to strike, but I haven't encouraged young people to strike. That's two different things. As Prime Minister, I believe that we should not encourage young people to do something that actually means that they are not present at school and get the pleasure of using the great resources that Norwegian teachers are, as Norwegian school is, and that we invest a lot of money in the future. If you take a strike, you get to take the load that's on that strike. But I think the commitment is great, I think it's important, and I hope that you also use it in the future, but that you also expand the perspective to look at a little more context and how we are going to implement climate policy in practice. I believe that voting rights are related to age of authority. It's an absolute thing for me. I got the right to vote when I was 18 and a half years old, because they lowered the age of authority to 18 that year, and I think it's one of the things you get when you get 18 and authority.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e625	Espen Barth Eide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e630	I share the Prime Minister's commitment to seeing the climate and value creation in the context. I also agree that one should not set an end date and operate the controlled winding-up of an important industry. But isn't the problem really the opposite, that we risk staying so dependent on today's totally dominant oil industry that reaches, for example. Our closest trading partners in the EU are implementing their so-called Clean Energy Package – which ends with coal, a severe reduction in oil and a minimum of gas by 2050 – are we standing there with overcapacity and have not made the necessary transition? Does the Prime Minister feel that we are on track for the transition we have to do – not because we decide it ourselves, but because the world is going to succeed in meeting the Paris requirements?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e635	Norwegian oil production has peaked too far. Norwegian oil and gas production is likely to peak this year or next year, with the estimates we have. We are now in a situation where we have good growth in investment in mainland Norway. We have also regained growth in investment in oil companies, but we know that this is due to the expansion of Johan Sverdrup and Johan Castberg and a few minor expansions. We must be prepared for the impulse and growth momentum of new oil and gas expansions in Norway to decline from the period 2022 to 2023 onwards. Therefore, the government has been so concerned with Norwegian competitiveness. That's why we work so much with the conversion of Norway. That is why we are working to make the Norwegian public sector more efficient, using resources in a better way. That's why we've reduced the taxation of businesses in Norway, so that it's interesting and important to invest, and that's why we have long-term research plans, with the main focus on the density of business, just to have more legs to stand on.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e642	Espen Barth Eide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e647	I would like to thank you for a good answer, because it is important that we recognise, also in this Chamber, that we will be less dependent on oil in the future. I feel that it is an answer that I agree with the issue, but not an answer as to whether we are on the route. I feel that we are quite far behind. We're taking a lot of action, but I think you need a completely different and much more active industrial policy to actively develop the technologies that can specifically build value creation and work in the industries that are currently related to oil and gas. It may be especially where we need a policy of early and rapid conversion. Many of the ideas that we now have, you can also think about in China and elsewhere. The question is whether we should not try to seize those chances by being early adaptors to a future that we know will come, and which I understand the Prime Minister also sees coming in the very near future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e654	I believe that we have an active industrial policy, but not that we have an activist industrial policy. That means that we don't pick winners, we don't go into detail regulation related to it, but we've increased all the innovation instruments, targeted at those that are tougher than business. Among other things, we have the introduction of a catapult system to test new projects, new technologies, which have been highly sought by industry. We have ensured better guarantee schemes for investments in Norway, and we helped the shipbuilding industry with guarantee schemes for a period when it was worse – ensured it. I think we've been active in getting this done, and we have a main focus on the innovation tools to get new technology. We then use the support systems both within Innovation Norway, within Enova and within the instrumentation and the Research Council. In addition, we use the purchasing opportunities that Norway has by making demands through it. There's a lot we have to do in the future to achieve those goals. I agree with the questioner.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e661	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e666	Erna Solberg's government is also a First House government, it's well known. After the government change in 2013, senior advisor from First House Sylvi Listhaug made his entrance around the King's table. When Listhaug had to leave, she was replaced by First House partner Tor Mikkel Wara – First House out and First House in. It may seem that the lobbyists have a firm place around the table in Erna Solberg's cabinet. In addition, the career lobbyists have been well represented at a lower level in the government apparatus, even when the Christian People's Party brought with it a First House adviser into government earlier this year, despite the Lord's words: "You cannot serve both God and Mammon." In return, the Prime Minister has returned his closest associates, both the Chief of Staff of the Republic of Erna, the Secretary of State of Erna and the Secretary of State of Erna. Last week we were able to see a fresh correspondence between the Prime Minister's office and Sigbjørn Aanes. Aanes is a partner in First House, he has been one of Erna Solberg's closest advisers in government and has recently been in contact with several of the Prime Minister's State Secretarys, the Head of Communications at the SMK and also Erna Solberg himself. Aanes says this is going on outside of work, and that he sets up as Tor Mikkel Wara's friend – and that's fine. But I wonder why the Prime Minister has contact with a State Council on leave, and also through actors who may have influence interests towards the government – which obviously a partner in First House may have.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e675	There must be something wrong in the reading of the representative. None of those who have been chief of staff for Prime Minister Erna Solberg have ever gone to First House. That information must be incorrect. We are very clearly practicing the rules of viability that exist for all politicians. This means that you can't help dealing with things you've worked with before, or have relatives who work with, in government. This means that you do not have to discuss issues you have to deal with in the government, with people from outside. All these rules are maintained and are important to comply with. When I have contact with Sigbjørn Aanes just in the situation that is now, it is because he is a friend of Tor Mikkel Wara. In a difficult situation he was among those who backed up under Tor Mikkel and the family. And I – and I want to emphasise that, I believe that my responsibility as a fellow human being and as an employer – is concerned about how people are doing in a difficult situation. I would think the opposite – that you weren't interested in it – would be strange. And then you get in touch with those who are closest, those that you might not be bothering, and directly with the person. That is why I have had contact both with Tor Mikkel Wara directly and with Sigbjørn Aanes, because he was close and simply helped to support the family in a difficult situation. He did so without pay, without any ties. I'm not talking about political issues, the watertight shots are like that, but friendship is important, and employer responsibility and the responsibilities of people in difficult crisis situations are important.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e683	This was the case with the Chief of Staff of Right – Haakon Dagestad, who has been the Chief of Staff of Erna Solberg for three years – and it is ready. The theme of communication was not only Wara; it was also First House and a text message from Aanes: «Rune and Trude: it comes out now that Ole and I are with Mikkel. Tore has sources. We're not saying anything. Ole and I were granted a vacation from yesterday. This was out of the internal message today early.’ The answer from State Secretary Rune Alstadseter was «Calls in a few minutes». What was said in the telephone conversation, we do not know, but from Trude Mäseide, the communication manager at SMK, we were told, "It's fine. Is unproblematic». It was therefore a positive assessment of a First House summit as a contact between the country's government and the country's Minister of Justice – not to his own head, the Prime Minister, but directly to the First House summit. We have a direct line between the SMK and the lobbyists in First House. When will this conversation end?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e697	It was quite unproblematic that it became public, because there was nothing wrong with two friends helping another friend, and that we have contacted that way – and directly – about questions. Therefore, it is not so nice to be answered that it is considered unproblematic. Publicity is just good. You know that they've been there, you know that you're on leave or you've taken a few days off to help a friend and a family in a difficult situation. The fact that we have contact and that it is informed about it also seems to me to be completely unproblematic. If you're going to ask questions about these things, I think you have to ask questions about that in this context is something that violates the rules of sustainability. Is it in this case when you deal with matters and talk about things you shouldn't? It's not. In these matters, there is one thing that matters, and that is to make sure that a person who is in a difficult situation, and for whom I, as the head of government, have an employer responsibility, is actually doing well, and that we know that it is not going well.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e706	Bears Moxnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e711	The special thing is that the contact goes through actors who at the same time may have an interest in influencing the government, who work for hidden customers, and have secret customers. That Erna Solberg doesn't see it, it's a little eye-catching, I think. Therefore, transparency and the opening of customer lists to government councils and state secretaries coming from the lobbying industry are important. It was voted down by Erna Solberg's party on the Stortinget. They even got the Press Left to turn and vote down the proposal here in Stortinget last autumn. Now is the proposal to open customer lists for investigation. I wonder if Erna Solberg does not see that these proposals are being put to a vote, that there are proposals for tightening up the disclosure law – that is to say exempting a calendar, and the entire government's calendar, from public opinion, is in favour of weakening transparency, which she has just talked so much about in previous articles.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e718	I believe that a lobby register is problematic for several reasons. One of the reasons is absolutely that in many cases people come to talk to a big representative about things that are difficult, about things they don't want others to know that you've been talking about, and that's important information to get. In my time as a big-time representative, I talked to people who were in difficult situations related to their employer, in difficult situations related to child protection, and many others who, of course, would rather not have seen them on a list, if anyone should start to understand who they are, and what they have been talking about. I think that's a relationship between us as elected representatives and others. I believe that a lobby register has some major challenges. We practice publicity on the part of the government. In this case, we have actually practised more publicity by saying that many of the text messages that were published were of such a nature that they were not affected by the Public Service Act at all. We thought it was good to be able to show that it had been contact.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e727	Social violence Vedum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e732	Prime Minister Erna Solberg is very concerned to say that everything that has happened in the contact between First House and the government is completely unproblematic. First House sells that they move power, that by having influence and networks they move power, and those who have money can buy First House services and influence decisions. When it is then so incredible that communication between the Prime Minister and the country's Minister of Justice is going through a First House partner, it is clear that it is problematic. I think it's amazing that Prime Minister Erna Solberg doesn't see it. I understand that it is difficult to take human considerations into account in that situation. And I see the human tragedy at Tor Mikkel Wara and hope everything goes well with him, but we have to be more careful, and the government has to be more careful about how to interact between First House and the government's own priorities. Then the Prime Minister also says in his reply that it is unproblematic for her to publish her text messages. Siv Jensen has refused to publish his text messages with another employee in First House. Should Siv Jensen also follow the Prime Minister's example and publish his correspondence with First House?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e741	The assessment has been that we – the Prime Minister’s office – have an employer’s responsibility for Tor Mikkel Wara. When we have had contact, we have thought it was right to practise more publicity. Siv Jensen has no employer responsibility. She's a party leader in the Progress Party. If it is the case that SMS correspondence is to be made public, we also need to be able to request from the Rightgroup to be made public in crisis situations such as the Social Violence Vedum has with non-participating persons or others. It's moving bounds. These assessments are not under the Public Service Act. But we assessed more public opinion, because we also practise employer responsibility – all politicians in the government have an employer responsibility for the Prime Minister's office.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e746	Social violence Vedum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e751	It is the country's prime minister and the country's finance minister, the two most powerful positions in the country's government, who chooses to communicate with one of the country's most important positions, the country's Minister of Justice, through what is considered to be Norway's perhaps the most powerful communication agency. Then you do it – for the sake of sight – of course you get free, because then it seems as if there are no bindings, but everyone understands the close connections between First House, Sigbjørn Aanes and Ole Berget. Then the Minister of Finance, who sits in the mighty role she does, communicates with his Minister of Justice through a First House partner. Doesn't Prime Minister Erna Solberg see this as any problem and what bonds this can create? Will Prime Minister Erna Solberg in future try to have a more tidy practice of recruiting people into and out of various communication agencies, when there is a way to give more influence to the power of money, instead of the power of the people?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e758	It's insinuated in a way that there's some information and power being exercised in that kind of arrangement. No, we have realistic rules that are very clear and clear, we have rules of procedure, we have rules on how to handle information about processes within the government, and none of them are affected by these issues. Although I know Sigbjørn Aanes well because I've been working with him for many years, I'll never share internal discussions about government issues with him, because there's a breach of the rules. So he doesn't give any power or influence to his customers or others, because the rules are more bottom-up, and it's not possible to do anything about it. This, I believe, is a misunderstanding – it is the individual politician, the individual who is to manage this responsibility, who must ensure himself in all respects, and be very careful about those issues. But this isn't it. This is a man in crisis. This is a human being who has made some of his best friends, with whom he has been on boy tours, to help himself in that situation. Then, as an employer, I would have called those who are around in many ways, to see if it was working well. If it had been the cousin, neighbor or anyone else, I would have.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e768	Social violence Vedum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e773	We must help a person in crisis, we are all fully in agreement, and we hope that the situation of Tor Mikkel Wara is as good as possible. But when we see the developments in Norwegian public vocabulary, that the growth of so-called communication agencies has been violent, it has become a bigger and bigger business, that one agency for communication after another has gone and boasted of the enormous turnover they have, how much money they make to try to influence such as the Prime Minister and myself, does not the Prime Minister see that there is a negative development, a development in which people go between politics and public relations – back and forth, back and forth? It's clear that what they're selling is their contacts, their network, the knowledge of how Erna Solberg thinks, how I think, how others think. If the Prime Minister wants this development to continue, or if she wants to take action so that we can now turn it around, and also be a little bit more tidy in dealing with the kind of communication agency, such as the police. First House?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e780	I believe that many people are purchasing services from communication agencies that they could call their local wholesale representative and get help with. You pay dearly for things you could get for free, and get a happy local staging representative who had helped his municipality, his region, his company locally to raise questions and work on matters, and who could guide them in how the system is. That's often quite simple things. Someone can make money that makes things easier and less complicated by doing it. I really think that we, as big people and as politicians, should have so much proximity that people know that they can take the phone, call and ask for help to get things solved, and in that way don't go through intermediaries. This is my general advice to everyone: talk to a staging representative and see if he/she can help to find good solutions to issues that you are struggling with. In this way, we should not need communication agencies.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e787	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e792	Art shall be free, ‘democratic states’ shall ‘prevent the State, as the authority, exerts pressure’ and censorship of art, ‘arm’s distance’ shall be to protect the freedom of expression of art, to ensure that political interests do not affect free artistic discretion. All of this is derived from the cultural message that the government provided before Christmas. Nothing of this is controversial, it's really like the obviouss to figure out, it's the principles that we all agree on. Yeah, it's actually so obvious that it almost gets banal, we all thought when we read the cultural message. But the last few weeks have shown us that it's not a matter of course that art is free. On the contrary, the Prime Minister himself has gone over the line, put pressure on and thought about what the play Ways of Seeing could lead to, that it could be tougher to be a politician, and that they had to think about it. This has naturally produced strong reactions. Does the Prime Minister understand that Black Box and the people behind Ways of Seeing and a group of artists feel this as a pressure, and will the Prime Minister complain to them?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e801	This question has also been reported to the ordinary Questionnaire, so there will be a double review of the same topic and the same question. I fully agree that freedom of expression is a fundamental right in Norway, I believe that artists should have full rights of expression and freedom of expression. It is protected both by the Basic Law and by human rights, which is also mentioned. I also believe that the role of art sometimes is both to raise debate, criticise power and to put things at the forefront, it is to use strong instruments. But freedom of expression likewise protects the freedom to discuss the artistic choices, to have a discussion about methodology and opinions. What I think is particularly sensitive in this matter is that part of the discussion that has been in the past has also led to a significant degree of threats and anger against the artists and others who participate in the debate. In general, I believe that art must be possible without being heated, but counterclaims – including expressions and methods – are also fully legitimate in the name of freedom of expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e810	I do not feel that the Prime Minister answers my question. The Prime Minister is right that it must be possible to discuss art, including art that provokes, but the Prime Minister must accept that she is not a normal commentator. She is prime minister and thus has floodlights on everything she says. The backstop for the whole of this matter is also that members of her own government, from the Progress Party, have for several months taken up the political censorship of the art, and that Black Box would lose state aid. It also makes the Prime Minister's statements extra bad. We had demonstrations last Saturday in most major cities in Norway, because this has produced reactions, and because people are concerned that the performances of the Prime Minister can help limit the artistic freedom of expression in Norway. When everyone experiences this so clearly, will the Prime Minister regret what she has said?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e819	I don't think there's any reason to see a relationship between what I said -- which was to encourage awareness of the consequences some opinions might have, for example. with regard to the family situation of policy-makers, the pressures it may experience as – and the use of censorship instruments or the exclusion of State aid. For the Right, and for the Government, one of the priority tasks we've had is to say that the free groups will have more room for action. That is why the free groups have also benefited from a better economy during this government, including the Black Box. It's never been in our minds that we're going to reduce the appropriations because we don't like it, rather to control the appropriations to do what they're doing. On the other hand, this is the debate that two of the Workers' Party's cultural ministers, Trond Giske and Anniken Huitfeldt, have held that they repeatedly imposed so many orders on what to achieve in order to obtain money, that it was a restriction on the functioning of art and freedom of expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e826	The oral question procedure is now over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e840	There will be some changes to the questionnaire, and the President will refer to the electronic question list in this section. The changes were as follows: Question 2, from the representative Siv Mossleth to the Minister for Transport, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 6, from the representative Ruth Grung to the Minister for Industry, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 8, from the representative Marit Knutsdatter Strand to the Minister for Research and Higher Education, will be answered by the Minister for Health on behalf of the Minister for Research and Higher Education, who has a disability. Question 10, from the representative of Hadia Tajik to the Minister for Development, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e858	Then we can just keep going where we left off: ‘The Minister of State, in dealing with the Black Box case, has contributed to putting undue pressure on the freedom of expression of a critical piece of power. This has produced great reactions. Will the Prime Minister make a complaint to Black Box and the people behind the piece Ways of Seeing?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e867	I think I'm going to repeat about the same thing that I said in my first answer to questions in oral question time. Freedom of expression is a fundamental right. It is absolutely fundamental in Norway. As an artist, you have the right and the right to have full freedom of expression protected both by the Constitution and by human rights. I believe that the role of art is to raise debate and criticise power. Art also has the right to put things on the head and to use strong instruments. But as I also said earlier, freedom of expression likewise protects the freedom to discuss the artistic choices, to discuss the use of methods and opinions. So I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to repeat a message I have come up with before, that of course a discussion is to be held without threats and is heated against the artists themselves or against others who are taking part in the debate. I want from Stortinget's pulpit to take a strong distance from threats and hots, as we have seen in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e878	When the artists demonstrate, when this has created strong reactions and a lot of debate, when Jussprofessor Mads Andenæs says that when Prime Minister Erna Solberg went out and criticized the Black Box and the artists, she helped put pressure on the police and the prosecution authority, when the director of theatre Hanne Lagta says it is problematic that a prime minister criticises one particular artist in front of an open camera, when, on weekends, demonstrations were spontaneously arranged several places in the country because artists are concerned and rescued – does the prime minister then understand that what she has said contribute to the opposite of strengthening the art as the venue? Does the Prime Minister understand that she has trodden across the line, and does the Prime Minister understand that the people behind Black Box and Ways of Seeing think they deserve an apology?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e883	Some of the statements that have been made in the newspapers have not been related to what I actually said, but it has been implicitly stated that I should have meant something about the causal relationship – something I explicitly said that I thought there was no connection in it, and that there was no basis for interpreting it that way. The second is the question of Professor Andenæs saying that I am helping to put pressure on the police. It is such that there are watertight bulkheads between the police's assessment of cases and the prosecution's assessment of cases and us. In this case, the timelines – as far as I understand them – for the question of resuming the case have actually been long before the time when I spoke out. It must be simply because of a lack of knowledge about what's been there. So I believe that freedom of expression also fully covers the right to appeal, to debate about method and to point out that being married to a politician, to feel that coverage comes close to family life, is actually also a burden, and I think that is a quite reasonable opinion for me to be able to give.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e892	I am convinced that the Prime Minister has no intention of giving the Black Box any regrets. I can also state that the Prime Minister at all does not understand his own role. Yes, it is obvious that art is to be discussed, but the Prime Minister has his own and unique role, and in this case the Prime Minister has trodden over the line and said that this free, power-critical play helps to make it harder or harder to be a politician. What I think is part of making it tougher to be a politician is that other politicians are trotting across the line and slipping when it comes to issues of freedom of expression. I think it makes it tougher to be a politician that we see an artist who is now concerned about whether the freedom of expression of art is good in Norway, and I think it makes it tougher to be a politician that we have a Prime Minister who does not see this and who does not want to admit that she should not say so. In order to use the Prime Minister's words from another context: does the Prime Minister see that perhaps she should not have chosen these words?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e899	I repeat what I have said before: the freedom of expression for artists is great. It's to be able to provoke us, to mean and to be able to challenge us. I experience both joy and irritation over that. But I believe that freedom of expression also applies to being able to contradict the exact same thing. So I'm going to remind myself the words that you think a prime minister shouldn't comment on everything. I will remember that the next time the Workers' Party asks me to comment on things, which they constantly want me to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e915	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e923	‘The Director of Health Møre and Romesdal recommended speeding up the consolidation of the food departments in Kristiansund and Molde. Close hospital economy and efficiency pacts have required savings. Towards a final collection of the supply of food, it has been assumed that existing offers are not dropped until alternatives are available. Will the Council of State state state why the prerequisites for a collection of hospital services in North Moravia and Romesdal are contrary to the Stortinge Decision 750? [[2017-2018]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e936	Health Møre and Romsdal state that the maternity wards in Kristiansund and Molde have for many years had great difficulties in recruiting and stabilizing the medical and midwifery groups. It is apparent from the development plan. It appears that, at times, it has been difficult to meet the quality requirements of the ‘Safe food supply’ supervisor and that the quality figures vary too much. It is stated that it will be professionally demanding to allow today's operations to continue until the hospital Nordmøre and Romsdal are ready, and that the company considers it important to start processes to develop the subject, work processes and organisation before moving into the new hospital. The Board of Health More and Romesdal discussed the implementation of the development plan in December 2018. It is pointed out that the process of merging food supplies in Molde and Kristiansund is scheduled to start in 2019, in view of the collection in a new hospital in North Møre and Romesdal, and that it will be followed up in line with the decision. In the context of the treatment of migration measures, it is stated that it is considered appropriate to bring together the food departments from summer 2019. The Director's recommendation that the food supply should be collected at the Molde Hospital from August 2019 is being treated as being known in the board of Health More and Romesdal today. If the Board of Directors decides on an independent basis a collection of the maternity wards in Molde and Kristiansund, I believe that this does not conflict with the request decision 750: ‘The Government is asking the Government to ensure safe and sustainable maternity care by ensuring the current food institutions.’ I am referring to the fact that the National Health and Hospital Plan wrote the following: “The distribution of smaller food departments and feeding rooms must ensure the proximity to food provision even outside the large women’s clinics.” I believe that this is the reason why the large majority of people also took the request decision, which I also pointed out during the Stortinges handling of the matter. The hospitals in Molde and Kristiansund are to be merged. It is managed by Health More and Romesdal that have to assess whether it is correct and appropriate to gather the environments before a new hospital is completed. As I said, there is some of the things that will be discussed in the board today. In addition, in the business meeting on the follow-up to the National Health and Hospital Plan, I have stressed that any change in the food supply should not weaken the overall food supply.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e951	The Council of State reports on the professional assessments made to gather the offer to succeed in recruiting and meeting the professional requirements we have to provide food for Norwegian women, throughout the country, to this extent. These are probably assumptions that no one disagrees about. What is being reacted to at Nordmøre these days is that this merger is done up to five years before the new hospital is completed. So my question to the Council of State is: does the Council of State understand that for the people of Northern Ireland it is perceived as a breach of the premise that this merger is already being done, and that if the board decides it today, then if it does, it will gather in Molde?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e958	I am not familiar with what assumptions you might then break. As I said in my reply, it is already in the adopted development plan that the process of merging food supplies in Molde and Kristiansund is due to start in 2019, given that one is going to work on preparing hospital organisations, businesses and employees for a new hospital. It is often the case that when building a new hospital that brings together existing disciplines, it is advisable to start the work before the new building is put into service, so that it is best prepared for the future to come. But it's the board of Health More and Romesdal who have to consider these questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e965	For the population of Northern Ireland, it is likely that this also has a significant economic justification. At the same time as bringing together food supplies and providing a professional justification for this, other important functions are being laid down, including: DPS and rehabilitation sites. It is very clear from politicians in the government parties that this is unacceptable. Sylvi, Listhaug, Vice-Chairman of the Progress Party, a member of the Government Party of the Advance Party and also a health politician, have said that this is unacceptable, and that the entire management of Health Møre and Romsdal must actually go. Is this the opinion of the Minister for Health behind it? And do you have a different view of this in the government party Progress Party than the health minister has?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e972	It is the way I appoint the boards of regional health companies, and it is the ones who appoint the boards of local hospitals, and it is their responsibility at all times to ensure that they have a management that performs their tasks and meets the requirements I set. So it's a question for the board of Health More and Romesdal, and it's those who are responsible for the management of the hospitals in More and Romesdal. I need to see what decisions the board is making today, and assess them against the national requirements that have been set. But the board is dealing with these matters today, and I am not going to give any prior assessment of the issues that the board is going to consider. They must have an independent discussion and assessment on the basis of their decision-making basis in the Governing Board.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e982	‘According to the Ministry of Health and Welfare, the Decision Forum is not a public body within the meaning of: Official Journal of the European Communities 18 March. This is an ‘obvious error’, according to Jussprofessor Jan Fridthjof Bernt, who believes the claim appears to be an attempt to avoid the rules of transparency and control. The decision-making forum determines whether patients are allowed to use new medicinal products and the Ministry’s practice means that citizens are deprived of the right to access and complain about these decisions. What is the legal basis for the State Council to claim that the Decision Forum is not a public body?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e989	The system for introducing new methods in the specialist healthcare system, introduced in 2013, has not reduced patients’ rights. Decisions taken in the system of new methods shall be in line with the obligation of health establishments to provide adequate services. Patients are entitled to the necessary specialist health services and health care, and they have the opportunity to appeal to the State and, where appropriate, to refer the matter to the courts. This is established – and has not been proposed. Decision-making forum is not the name of a separate administrative body but the name of a form of cooperation for health regions. The four regional health enterprises and underlying health enterprises are public bodies under the Public Health Act. For example, documents between the four regional health enterprises on issues dealt with in the Decision Forum can be found in: are not exempted as internal documents in compliance with the disclosure law § 14. Decisions taken in the system for new methods are not individual decisions or regulations under the Administrative Act. A positive decision by the four regional health enterprises in the Decision Forum means that a method can be used in the public health specialist service. The decision-making forum does not consider the specific treatment of the individual. On 22 March 2019, the Government promoted a proposal to legislate the system for new methods, etc. The proposals contained in this bill do not alter current patient and user rights, but should ensure equal access to new treatment methods. The proposal clarifies that the right to the required specialist health service relates to the services that the specialist health service is responsible for providing and financing. The Ministry proposes clarification in order to establish that the individual right does not go beyond the specialist health service's obligation to provide services. It is a clear advantage that legislation establishes a link between priority decisions with a bearing on the provision of specialist healthcare and decisions on the right to necessary healthcare for patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e1002	When decision-making forums are not a public body, citizens cannot complain about decisions, and the proceedings can be kept hidden from the public. Professor Jan Fridthjof Bernt believes that the Decision Forum is part of the Public Health Administration. He pointed out that decision-making forums are owned and acting on behalf of regional health professionals, who are state-owned, and he believes that they are part of the administrative law as ‘body for state’ and under public law as a joint body for state regional health professionals, and that it is openly incorrect that it is not a public body. I asked what is the legal basis of the state council to claim the opposite, and I want to ask again about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e1009	That's also what I said. Decision-making forum is not the name of a separate administrative body; it is the name of a form of cooperation for health regions. It is the four regional health establishments and underlying health establishments that are public bodies under the Public Health Act. This will include, inter alia: as demonstrated by the fact that the documents between the four regional health establishments on matters dealt with in the Decision Forum, such as: may not be exempted as internal documents in compliance with the disclosure law § 14. So here there's probably a disagreement in the assessment between the department and Professor Jan Fridthjof Bernt.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e1014	We're in a situation where it's becoming increasingly difficult to see the basis for the priorities. We're not going to know the price, we're not going to know if it's cost-effective or not, there's no one ready to assess the severity, and professionals can't compare priorities that are being done. Recent decision-making forums – which are therefore not a public body, according to the government – that the State Medicines Agency should no longer conclude on cost-effectiveness. So my question is, if it is now that the decision-making forum is not a public body, how can they decide that the State Medicines Agency should not conclude on cost-effectiveness?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e1021	Firstly, I disagree with the premise on the representative's question. The system of new methods has contributed to more transparency and discussion on health priorities. These were decisions that no one really knew who made earlier, because patients could risk making different decisions in different hospitals and in different regions. It was not a predictable and open procedure. Users were not co-representatives in preparatory bodies, as they are today. So on the contrary, this has contributed to more transparency and more debate, and I am pleased about that. Then it is the four health regions that jointly – through the decision-making forum – order the reports from the State Medicines Agency. In order not to create confusion as to who makes the decisions on this matter, a request has been made for those reports not to contain a conclusion on what the Decision Forum jointly draws conclusions on, but the transparency of the report is exactly the same.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e1031	«Mentis Cura is an example of a Norwegian company that has developed a new method for diagnosing dementia. The method is non-invasive and low-cost. They have gained access to several markets internationally, but experience that access to the Norwegian market is more difficult. What will the Council of State do to ensure that Norwegian health innovators are used in our common healthcare?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e1038	Mentis Cura is one of many Norwegian promising companies in the health industry. I do not know the product and development in detail, but I have been told through the media that they have entered into a major commitment agreement with a Japanese company. I have also recorded that they are still in a developmental phase, and that they are conducting clinical studies, although not yet in Norway, as far as I know. The representative asks what I would like to do to ensure that Norwegian health innovators are used in our common healthcare service. We are about to present a big message about the health industry. There, the representative will see a number of measures that actually answer this question. This is a big message to be presented by the Minister of Industry, but I'm going to be there, of course, because we have a big ownership of this message. Of course, I will not deprive the Minister of Industry of the pleasure it is to present the measures in the communication, and do so in the Questionnaire today, but I would like to take the opportunity to point out that in the healthcare sector we should make even better provision for Norwegian companies to develop their products in interaction with healthcare, for example. by compiling the necessary documentation through clinical studies. We are also going to apply the innovations that provide patients with good diagnostics and treatment. New methods shall be safe and cost-effective. The Stortinget has also been behind in the treatment of the prioritisation message. As mentioned, Mentis Cura does not conduct clinical studies in Norway, as far as I know. I hope, of course, that Norwegian companies want to carry out their clinical studies in Norway, and we are systematically working to facilitate it even better by strengthening the capacity and infrastructure of hospitals, and by developing indicators and overviews of available information for patients and their doctors. We have also asked regional health companies, together with industry, to develop a partnership model for national infrastructure with a ‘one-way’ approach for clinical studies. 70,000 people in Norway have dementia, and it is estimated that the number of people with dementia will double by 2040. We lack knowledge of the causes and effective treatment of these diseases. Better diagnostics can bring great benefits to patients and relatives, but also to us as a society, and the companies that contribute can grow and contribute to value creation and growth in Norway. These are great, positive gains for the Norwegian society, for which I am, and which I am also pleased that the representative Moflag is taking up here – because this is a very positive development. I look forward to discussing the health nutrition notification in Stortinget during the spring, where we will be able to make many important premises for the further strong development of this important industry for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e1053	I hear that the Council of State in its response refers a lot to the need for clinical studies and clinical studies in Norway. I now had a meeting on the morning quiz with the NHO, the pharmaceutical industry and Abelia. They also point to the same thing. Unfortunately, there is a bleak development when it comes to clinical studies in Norwegian hospitals. It is an ambition for the clinical studies to go up in Norway, but the trend is that it goes the opposite way. As the Council of State focuses so much on that in its answer, I wonder what the Council of State has done in recent years to get the percentage of clinical studies up. What tools do hospitals have to get more clinical studies?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e1058	We've done several things. One is that we have stressed that hospitals are to be measured on this and rewarded for it, so that the management of hospitals sees that facilitating doctors and hospital staff spend time organizing clinical studies is something that leaders are measured on and can therefore be involved in and prioritized. Because that's one of the challenges we get feedback about from the service. The other thing we have started is that I have asked the health regions along with the industry to look at the Danish solution with some kind of one way in for clinical studies. For some of what we see, not only in Norway, but also internationally, is that one actually has challenges in recruiting patients if one has only one hospital. One has to think bigger, and if we can see Norway as a whole, it is an important step in getting more clinical studies in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e1065	There is a need to measure and reward, and I wonder: How can hospitals' funding systems, measurement and reward systems be used to launch innovation, and to what extent are hospitals measured by their making innovative purchases?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e1070	The first part of the question I answered in my previous answer. As far as the second question is concerned, there is one of the things that we have now given as a mission to the regions that the national company Hospital Purchasing is working on. There we have also received positive feedback from the industry that there is a new attitude in meeting this. They include: organised speed dating meetings with industry, where industry and the various actors are given the opportunity to present their solutions. For some of the challenges it has been that a former person would like to have bought more of the same, what he has, instead of going into the market and asking for new solutions. So this is now part of the work and strategy of the national company Hospital Purchase.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e1084	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e1092	I would like to ask the Minister for Digitalisation the following questions: ‘The media have recently focused on the so-called mobile hijacking and sale of SIM cards to fake subscribers. In Dagsnytt on March 18th, the Council of State said that ‘there is a demand today for a unique identification both when porting telephone numbers and when purchasing SIM cards. But it is obviously not followed up in practice [...] So I have both asked that we now see whether the law or the legislation is good enough, or whether there is a need to tighten it up – but also not least that the legislation we have is actually followed”. Governments also mentioned Bank ID as a possible tool for unique identification. Does the Council of State feel that there is a need for clearer rules on how to carry out a unique ID check and on control procedures and penalties for breaches thereof?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e1099	The short answer to the question is yes. I think there were many who were surprised at today's business discovery of how easy it can be to hijack someone else's mobile phone, and how easily many of the companies have made the demand for unique identification when purchasing and porting SIM cards. This is serious, as mobile phones are becoming increasingly important in more and more areas. It has a central role as a work tool, but is increasingly used for both banking and other fully central services. Not least we use mobile numbers to identify us, for example. when we are going to log in on digital services or change passwords. This means that we are also more vulnerable if we are exposed to mobile hijacking. Section 2-4, second paragraph, states: ‘The public telephone service provider shall ensure, upon conclusion, modification or termination of the contract, that the end-user is uniquely identified. Providers shall be able to demonstrate the identity check.’;» The law is not to be misunderstood. Telecoms shall have procedures to ensure the unambiguous identification of the end-user, and I expect companies to comply with the legislation. Unfortunately, today's business shows that the telecommunications operators have broken both the law and their own procedures. It tells me that we need strict rules on safety, but also ensure that the legislation is followed up in practice. Therefore, I have commissioned the National Communications Authority, Nkom, to assess whether further action is necessary to ensure that mobile hijacking does not develop into a major problem in Norway. In dialogue with the providers, some have to assess whether the law is good enough and whether electronic identity solutions are used, such as: BankID, MinID or Buypass, may contribute to increased security in the purchase or porting of SIM cards. It will also assess the need for supervision and how to use the sanctioning system in the event of future non-compliance. Some assessments will be very central to the follow-up by the government and provide a good basis for following up on the issues raised by the representative in his question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e1121	I thank the Minister for the answer. It's nice that we've got our own state council for the area, which can go into things quickly, as the state council has done in this case. I think that's positive. I also thank you for a clear answer – which was ‘yes’ – and that he says it is serious that many companies have not taken this seriously enough. I am aware that the Council of State is going to have a process with Nkom, but my purpose with this question today is that I would like to try to deepen some of the issue. The first concerns this with different types of e-ID, e.g. BankID and MinID, and there should also be a national ID card. According to the representation in the business life of today, the guidance board from Nokom is not entitled to require valid identification, valid identification. So there is also a need for Mr. Nkom to look at his own routines, and for a model to be chosen for what valid identification should mean, that it is not only general in the law, but that there are some requirements for that type of valid identification.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e1134	I fully agree that there is a need for clear and good guidelines and clear legislation. The law is, as I said in my article, not to misunderstand, and then we have to make sure that practice is in line with the law. Now, for safety reasons, I have also asked Nkom to assess whether there is a need for changes in the law, but I think the most important thing is that the second paragraph of Section 2-4 of the Ecom Act is followed up in practice by the mobile companies. I assume that Mr. Nkom also has supervisors who are in line with the legislation they have been set up to manage. So whether you are going to use BankID, or similar solutions, is something that Nkom has to assess, and that I look forward to following up when I get their assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e1141	I thank you for the additional reply. There is also a perspective on preparedness, crime and how society protects itself, because communication by telephone is so central to how our society works. So when the police tell VG on October 1st last year that they have given up reporting all the false profiles they find when they confiscate telephones with SIM cards – where it is only stated almost comical profiles, which the sellers obviously have to understand are not right – my question is also: How does the Council of State think that this should be controlled in the future? Do we really have good enough sanctions, who can impose sanctions, and are they strict enough? And do we have a control device that can follow how this happens in practice around shops and streetways, when it pushes on buyers around the streets?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e1148	I fully agree that we must have a sanctioning system that ensures compliance. It obviously does not do so today, it has revealed the matter in today's business. In addition, the related issue raised by the representative of Bohemia relating to repeat crime and false profiles has no doubt that this is due to the fact that practices in obtaining SIM cards under a false name are clearly widespread and should be seriously addressed. We need to have a system of sanctions to ensure that there are consequences if the legislation is not complied with, and we need to assess whether the need for supervision is properly met today. And I would say, both from the experience of the police, to which the representative of Bohemia refers, and from the things that today's business has revealed, that this is not being followed up well enough today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e1158	This question, from Marit Knutsdatter Strand to the Minister for Research and Higher Education, will be answered by the Minister for Health on behalf of the Minister for Research and Higher Education.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e1163	The question is as follows: «The study of students' health and well-being came in September 2018, but as late as March 4, 2019, the State Council of TV 2 stated that she thinks the figures related to students with mental disabilities are far too high. What action is the Council of State taken to ensure the mental health of the students, which is missing from the Norwegian student organisation, and to address the challenges that go back to when the students were between 14 and 17 years of age?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e1172	Too many students report mental health problems. The problems are complex. The transition from post-secondary education to higher education may be difficult for some; other psychological difficulties may give rise to entirely different things. Therefore, both preventive measures and devices are required where necessary. At the same time, it is important to bear in mind that mental disorders are increasingly reported among children and young people in general, nationally and internationally. As a main measure, students and students should receive the help they need through the usual community health service. This is why the government has done good in mental health both in the field of public health and in the ministry, including students and students. The government is also working on a separate escalation plan for the mental health of children and young people. Psychiatric health will also be an important part of the new public health message to be provided by the government. In addition, specific measures are available for students and higher education. Norwegian higher education institutions have a separate responsibility for the learning environment of students enshrined in law. We've also started a bill-proposition work. The bill has been planned to send the Stortinget before Easter, with a decision, hopefully, after Easter. The legislative proposal will clarify the responsibility of institutions for the learning environment, including the mental health of students. In this year’s letters of assignment to universities and colleges, we referred to the SHoT survey and the increase in reported mental disorders. We expect universities and colleges to take the necessary steps to ensure an inclusive study environment. There is also a lot of good work done here. For example, Susann Andora Biseth-Michelsen, head of the Student Parliament at the University of Oslo, boasts cooperation between the University of Oslo and the Student Association in Oslo on a health centre, including a free mental health service, where group guidance and organisation for more varied services are among the benefits of new premises. Furthermore, in 2018, the government has strengthened the commitment to students' mental health by 10 million. kr. 18.4 million. have been allocated 19 interconnections and universities and colleges for health promotion and prevention actions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e1191	Escalation plan is good, and placing responsibility is good. I must also say that the Minister of Health is definitely responsible. Prevention may include, inter alia: is done in high school by helping children and young people master the underlying causes of mental problems and by focusing early on them. Most are under 16 years of age when they are diagnosed with mental health disorders. Often, everyday problems have grown too much, too much. One example is the best-evaluated school programme, YAM, from the Karolinska Institutet in Sweden, which is now being used in Norway. The government is often concerned with formalising and concrete actions on whether to prevent mental health problems and offers that contribute to the health of students. What can students expect to see of change in their everyday life ahead?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e1198	I am very pleased that the representative takes up the perspective of prevention and that of getting in early. Because it is quite right, as the representative says, that most people who face a mental health challenge during life get the first time in their childhood and youth. It is often very little that is needed to reverse the development and give the individual the tools you need to train and take good care of their mental health. I'm very proud to be the Minister of Health who presented the first public health message that equated physical and mental health. The government is working in many areas to follow this up. We are now introducing lifelong learning into the new curricula as a cross-cutting theme in school. It's important precisely because you're also going to learn to master your mental health, just as you've learned about your physical health in school every year. We have our own strategy in the government for children aged 0 to 4, where all government councils responsible for children and young people work on these issues and coordinate them.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e1205	There is no doubt that we must continue to address the students on this issue. Indeed, they are responsible for the well-being of the students at each place of study, and the municipalities of those who live in the municipality, the health services of the health service and the educational institutions of their students and their learning environment. This is a vortex in which the students must inform themselves, preferably when they are in a personal crisis. Mental Health and Mental Health Youth contributes well more places and can help to work prevention and attitude-creating and establish low-threshold services. The student environment should not be shaken by more tragic events. How do state councils feel that educational institutions, health services, municipalities, student welfare and everything that surrounds a student can be better coordinated to address the challenges? And why does the government not want a student health report, which NSO has requested?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e1212	I fully agree that the students must be able to find the help they need in a quick and easy way. This is one of the reasons why the government has just established a separate grant scheme that student relationships can apply for, where we from the Health Directorate have also distributed 18.4 million. to various health promotion and prevention measures. What is also exciting in this area is that new treatment methods are proving to have a major effect on having digital solutions for both the simple treatment, such as early mental health care – which is implemented in several places, where patients simply make self-treatment digital, as in the municipality of Kristiansund – and also eMestring, which Health West is now rolling out, which is, of course, for patients who are so ill that they need specialised mental health care.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e1222	‘Refers to NRK notice on 13 March that North Norway is losing large parts of its helicopter standby. How will the Council of State ensure helicopter preparedness in North Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e1229	The government is very concerned about the emergency situation throughout Norway. For this reason, the government has expanded the composition of the government with its own Minister of Social Security. One of the very first things I took up as a state councillor was just the helicopter situation in Troms. Today we have two rescue helicopters in North Norway, one in Bodø and one on Banak, each with two Sea King rescue helicopters. This government also ordered 16 new rescue helicopters of type AW101 immediately after the government takeover in 2013. These have longer reach, can lift heavier and are much better technically equipped than today’s Sea King – thus strengthening preparedness. The first AW101 has already arrived and, after operational testing and evaluation, will be put in place. In addition, this government has upgraded the rescue helicopters on the Sun, the Earland and the Banak – to be opened immediately – and started upgrading several of the others. The existing base structure of the rescue helicopters was proposed and adopted under the previous government, such as: represented the Borch Party, the Central Party. I would like to remind Borch that it was only the Progress Party that then addressed the possible need for the rescue helicopter base in Troms. The defense has today dedicated helicopter preparedness to the police, to Rygge and Bardufoss – where this government has otherwise reduced response time by one hour. The government's proposal implies that three of the Defense Bell 412 helicopters are still stationed at Bardufoss. In order to ensure police preparedness in North Norway, the system is maintained at Bardufoss until another solution is established. It's in this context that we're working on looking at the rescue services' needs for helicopters in the north. It is also a well-functioning cooperation with the air ambulance service throughout the country. Their helicopter resources also make significant efforts in the field of rescue, as the cooperative model suggests. With new rescue and coastguard helicopters, the total helicopter capacity in the north will increase. The handling of the Hinlopen incident on Svalbard shows that we have a well-functioning rescue service, where the rescue helicopter was critical. The weekend rescue operation outside Hustadvika showed that rescue helicopters were a very important resource. But it also made visible that it would take a very long time to evacuate ships with very many distressed places. Therefore, we need to think more broadly and also consider other compensatory measures. I would like to take the opportunity to commend the people involved and thank them for their very good efforts. Finally, I must remind you that the public can never solve such tasks alone. We do not ignore the importance of self-reliance and that prevention is the most important thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e1246	Let me just remind you that it is this government that has decided to move six helicopters from Bardufoss. It's the Center Party that fought in this hall for the Defense Helicopters. It is the Centre Party which has made proposals for rescue helicopters in several rounds in this Chamber. After the government and a majority in this room have now decided to move six Bell helicopters from Bardufoss to Rygge, which was strongly opposed, there is no doubt that there is a great deal of uncertainty about preparedness in Norway. We see that the county councillor, the police chief and the police department have warned against this move. I notice that the Council of State has said that the Bell helicopters should not be moved until the alternative capacity is in place. What is the alternative capacity?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e1253	The government informed the Storting about this last harvest. We've taken it seriously and worked on this over time, completely independent of the events of the weekend and of the last time. There is now an investigation into a solution to the rescue helicopter challenge in Troms. It should not be surprising for anyone that a minister of social security and preparedness is concerned about this. Those who have followed my statements and my work since I was assigned this role should have got that right. It's good that the Center Party is now coming after. It was the previous government, with the representative Borch's party, who adopted today's base structure, where the Progress Party proposed a seventh base in Troms.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e1262	Security and preparedness for people in the north are important. There's a long way between the existing bases in North Norway. You have Bodø, and you have Banak. The distance between the two bases is 100 miles. It is very demanding in view of the emergency situation. I remember the tragic accident in the Tamok Valley. It shows how vital it is for the part of the country to have access to the defence helicopters. When the accident occurred, it took four hours from pressing the red button, until the rescue helicopter from Banak was in place in the Tamok Valley. The reason was that the helicopter couldn't fly over the mountains because of bad weather. It's serious. They had to follow the coast to get to the Tamok Valley. My specific question to the Council of State is – which is also proposed in this Chamber today – whether to consider establishing a rescue helicopter base in Troms.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e1271	That's exactly what I'm saying that I'm going to. We briefed the Stortinget last fall that we are assessing the situation of rescue helicopters in Troms. It was also this government that put in place the order for new rescue helicopters, which have far better reach, greater speed and better ability to operate in bad weather, as the representative Borch just mentioned is part of the challenge in North Norway, with long distances, bad weather conditions, etc. The new AW101 machine, which is much better than today's Sea King machine, will provide more security for people at sea, along the coast and in remote areas all over the country. The new helicopters will have world-leading technologies and a number of innovations. The Norwegian rescue services will be further strengthened with them.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e1288	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time. So the ordinary questioning procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-27.ana.ud539e1304	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
