ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e83	They called for the alternates, for Akershu County Ole-Jacob Johansen and for the South Trondelag County of Kristian Torve, now take the seat. The Group of the Party of European Socialists has submitted an application for welfare leave to the representative Jon Engen-Helgheim on 20 and 21 June. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The representative for goods, Tone Heimdal Brataas, is called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e111	The representative of the Bears Moxnes will present a draft constitution and a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e116	Red proposes a probationary system that allows people to submit citizens' proposals for consideration on the Stortinget, and we have a Constitutional Amendment proposal so that people can promote citizens' proposals for treatment on the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e121	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e141	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e150	First, I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in the examination of the 2019 agricultural agreement. Not least, I would like to thank the agricultural partners and the country's dealers for the job they have done. That for the second year in a row we got an agreement between the parties, is good. It is important for the legitimacy of the negotiating institute to function. The agricultural demand was 1.92 billion. kr. The State's negotiating committee stressed in its offer that 2018 was a demanding year for agriculture, marked by the extreme drought, and that market developments, with a stagnant and partially declining market, created challenges to increase value creation in industry. The offer from the state had a frame of 1 billion. kr. On 16 May, the agreement between the Norwegian Farmers' Association and the Norwegian Farmers' Association and the State was presented. The deal has a frame of $1.24. NOK and add up to an income increase in agriculture of 6,25 p.m., which represents an increase of 20,600 kroner, which is NOK 600 more than for other groups. The Committee's proceedings confirm the agreement and urge the Stortingen to make the necessary changes to the budget in order to follow up the agreement. For the government, it is important to take care of the uniqueness of Norwegian food production, such as low drug use, high animal welfare and a long value chain. Agricultural policy is based on the four supports a well-functioning import protection, cooperative organisation, the negotiating institute with annual agricultural settlements and a property policy that ensures the self-ownership of the farmer. Our agricultural policy is based on a clear understanding that the farmer is self-employed. The agreement we now have to deal with is a strong commitment to the green sector and to cereal production, and it has a clear profile in favour of the small and medium-sized districts. At the same time, the structural measures introduced in 2014 continue to be implemented in order to safeguard those who have invested and adapted to the 2014 framework. This agreement will allow all dairy farms to increase their incomes, but small and medium-sized uses will increase their krona per year. The agricultural agreement provides a basis for good income development in agriculture – in line with other groups. Furthermore, channelling policies are strengthened by a strong strengthening of the cereal economy. This has been important after some years of decline in the income of cereal farmers. Proper measures are important to maintain the channelling policy that is expected, in order to have the natural agricultural activity where conditions warrant it. This means that cereals should be grown where conditions are appropriate for cereals and that we should have grass-based livestock farming in the districts. This agreement contributes to precisely the distribution of production and strengthens rural agriculture in the West and North Norway through a clear rural profile of several important grants. The government is helping to reverse the negative development we had in the red-green reign, when the grassland in the grain regions increased by 16 pst. Since our government took over, the grassland in the grain regions has been reduced by 2 pst. It is good to see that this year’s agreement also strengthens fruit and vegetables with a separate package of measures for innovation and growth in the green sector. Right agricultural networks have been on several visits to farmers around the country, and an optimism from those we have visited can be reported. At the farmer at the Greenland farm in Nes in Akershus, we got the story of their operation in organic farming. They have also started the production of New cheese and ice cream on the farm – good products that give extra legs to stand on for the farmer. New peaches also received the 2nd place during the Oste-VM in Bergen. The only fruit and side pane in Norway can be found in Ulvik, Hardanger. Here Syse farm has joined two other farms for a unique product. In addition to operating the farm with sheep, fruit and berries, they welcome visitors to show their pride. By doing so, they gain an understanding of their industry, and not least create more bones to stand on and increase farm income. It may also be possible to rejoice that less and less cultivated land is being built and that new cultivation reaches new records. Finally, I am very pleased that the subsidy for Arctic agriculture has doubled in this agreement. It is important to maintain the important rural development of Arctic agriculture in the northern regions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e178	Norway is the country of opportunity. We have the resources and the knowledge we need to strengthen our food production and provide safe food for the population in the years to come. The crucial question for next year's agricultural policy, and when we look at it in a longer perspective, is whether we want to use the natural resources we have in Norway, across our country, between fjords and mountains, to produce top quality food. The point is that it will solve all the major societal challenges that are really important and relevant to food production. I am thinking, first of all, of strengthening self-sufficiency and increasing the safety of the citizens of Norway. Not least, a strengthened policy based on the country we are, and the nature we have, will, of course, provide jobs in all parts of the country, because we need to use the resources where they are – whether there are opportunities to produce grass where nature is suitable for it, or it is using more of the great land resources we have. In order to achieve this, the next few years will require a much stronger policy on the basis of which cereals are produced. It was erroneously produced by the Right-wing Representative instead that there was a strong strengthening of the grain production. That's wrong. During the consultation of the nutrition committee, it became clear that the policy adopted now could lead to a continued decline in cereal areas. In recent years, cereals have fallen in all the counties of the country. Self-sufficiency is extremely low and, for example, in a state such as Trondelag, the grain area returns while the grassland is also on its way back. That means, as simple as it is possible to say, that agriculture is returning to large parts of our country. So it's going the opposite way of what we want, which is to get self-sufficiency up, get security up and get the value of Norwegian resources up. In order for this system to work as a whole, we need a more ground-based and wise policy, for example, where we're going to produce milk, and how we're going to do it. In the next few years, we are facing a major challenge with what may be the greatest centralisation of milk production in recent times, much because of a quota ceiling set unrealistically high under the former Minister of Agriculture of the Progress Party Sylvi Listhaug. A quota ceiling of 900000 tonnes has nothing to do with Norwegian nature. There is a roof that is set so high that there are really very few producers who will ever be close to reaching it. The effect of such an unrealistic, remote roof is simply that quota prices are being driven up to ever-increasing heights, and as Landkreditt Bank has pointed out: it is now simply so that the prices of allowances have nothing to do with the economy of production anymore. That's unprofitable quota purchases. We are in agricultural policy in the process of facing the same situation as we have seen in fisheries in recent years, by making it much more expensive for new generations to get work opportunities and making more use of passive quota sales and speculation. It is very serious, and unfortunately it is not corrected in this farm. It is very surprising that the Christian People's Party is still on the old-fashioned centralisation line of Sylvi Listhaug, which will create major challenges and in practice enable agriculture to return to more and more parts of District Norway. That is why this debate marks an important distinction: The Workers' Party submitted in the spring of 2018 a stepping-up plan for safe food production based on Norwegian resources that would strengthen self-sufficiency and value creation. Since the Christian People's Party chose the Right and the Advance Party, an exciting and interesting distinction in agricultural policy has emerged between a direction that will provide jobs in all parts of the country, increase self-sufficiency and enhance value creation, and a direction that implies the status quo for the centralisation of Listhaug. It's an important debate for our country, it's an important debate for the security of our citizens, and it's going to be more and more interesting to follow where we're going to take our food production in the next few years.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e189	I must first congratulate the parties to the agricultural settlement with a good result and agreement, and hope that it will bring agriculture forward. This government has shown that the bourgeois side has the best policy for farmers. When the government took over in 2013, there were no limits to how wrong the Senter party and others thought it would go with Norwegian food production. They predicted bankruptcy, the fury of agriculture, and that food production would be cut off. Yes, Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum even said that it would end on the cabbage – it was only cabbage again. We have both cabbage and more than enough sheep for the cabbage. Also in this setting, the Centerpartiet writes that the government and the bulk of the population regularly attack Norwegian agriculture. But the result after six years of bourgeois government is that food production in Norway has never been higher than now, and the turnover of local food has increased more than the rest of the daily food market in the last four years. Fewer farms have been laid down under this government than under the previous government, and perhaps the most important thing: the farmers themselves are satisfied. In a 2018 survey, 4000 Norwegian farmers say that gardening has become more profitable under the bourgeois government than under red-green rule. The critique of the Center Party and others are on autopilot. The Empire is not on their side. The government has implemented changes in agricultural policy that give farmers greater freedom to decide on their own property by, for example: to double the concession limit for chicken and turkey. We have arranged for increased food production by doubling the livestock premium ceiling, and we have twisted the subsidy from having animals for slaughter. This has resulted in increased food production and a good income development for the Norwegian farmer. Those who want to bet are rewarded for this. We have given farmers the opportunity to make money. The agricultural settlement of the year continues the principles of 2014. The principles applicable to business elsewhere shall also apply to agriculture. If you drive effectively, you are rewarded. If you want to bet, you have to increase your return. Farmers, like other traders, shall have the opportunity and responsibility to develop their enterprise into a profitable job. Norwegian agricultural products are world-class, and they've never been produced as much of it as they are now. There is capacity for further production growth in Norwegian agriculture, which means that agriculture must have more opportunities to export its products to markets abroad. More exports and resulting output will provide more jobs, especially in the districts. I also record from previous debates that this is something the Workers' Party and the Senter Party is not very happy about. They are locked in the old system that Norwegian agriculture should supply the Norwegian population with exports only as a possible small supplement. They have not found that Norwegian agriculture is doing very well and that production can reach new heights if new markets are opened up. Here we must be forward-looking and take advantage of the optimism and investment will that exist among Norwegian farmers. The most important thing is that we talk the farmer up and are proud of him or her. To talk down and make poor the peasant is no servant, at least not the peasant himself. I'll finally mention one thing that's important, and that's that one has to look at the evolution that's in the food chain. Now when we see that production is increasing and we have overproduction, in other industries it would have been so that prices had fallen, but in Norway the price of the farmer is only falling. It's bad to see that someone is left with only a few pounds when they deliver to slaughter, while the shops get the exact same thing. That's not the right policy. There's someone sitting and foaming the cream, and it's neither the farmer nor the consumer.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e208	Agriculturally settled this year still with agreement between the country and the trade union. That's good. The agreement for this year is intended to reduce the income gap between agriculture and other groups by DKK 600. This must be seen in the light of the sharp decline in income over the last few years. Structural and centralisation concepts from 2014 are firm, not only for those who have invested, but they continue to work. In comparison, the last agricultural settlement with a Central Party State Council was yet another income poll of NOK 6000. I just mention this, as some of the representatives from the government parties are, by experience, more concerned with agricultural history than with discussing and designing policies to solve future challenges. The Committee has an important wording in its opinion: ‘The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the member of the Socialist Left Party, indicates that, in line with the observations made by the Stortinge on the agricultural message, an increase in income is higher than that of ordinary employees.’ The staging process provides the guidance for the incoming entry, and this note is an important clarification of the income target in the setting of the agricultural message. The majority of the committee has formulated this in such a clear and simple way that even the negotiator of the state, the Department Council of Leif Forsell, cannot misinterpret it. Even with an agricultural agreement, it has been a bad year for agriculture: ban on keeping fur animals, ban on the breeding of boar, a predatory policy that is still on predators’ premises, and demanding negotiations on climate where one could risk going beyond Norwegian food production. Milk production is the main source of agriculture in the whole country, and milk production is facing massive challenges in the next few years due to the loss of Jarlsberg cheese exports, falling milk consumption and increased imports. How should we adapt production and demand for milk? That is a crucial question. The Central Party believes that the state must contribute. When Jarlsberg exports fell away, compensatory measures were promised. Here the government has failed, because in spite of the promises, there is only 75 million. kr in investment funds as a follow-up. Now the message to agriculture from the government is that the farmers have to pick up the rest of the bill. It's, in the view of the Center Party, a breach of promises. Then there is a process between the parties to ensure a future balance in the milk market. It's going to be hard to create noise. However, it is true that this happens in a dialogue between the industry and the state. However, I would like to highlight three key policy issues: The geographical distribution has to be maintained. A structure change driver is not required. Active farmers must be given priority. The centre party also records that the government party is launching exports for Norwegian agriculture as a solution. At the same time, the same parties have introduced bans on the part of agriculture that drives profitable exports. The central party believes instead that the government should put in place measures to increase the proportion of Norwegian agricultural goods in Norwegian shops and shopping baskets. The Central Party has submitted a proposal to the Stortinget to increase the self-sufficiency of agricultural products in Norway. It will be treated for the fall. I hope that the Minister of Agriculture will be involved in this issue, because it is urgent to get started, and we would rather not have to wait until after the fall of 2021. I ask the Minister of Agriculture to turn the focus of the government's agricultural policy away from imposing bans and increases in taxes and on developing and strengthening Norwegian food production. It is fine when the case-speaker draws up the pillars of Norwegian agricultural policy, but it is worth bearing in mind that the Right and the Progress Party have fought against all these four pillars, and that it is the Stortinget that has been taking responsibility for agricultural policy since 2014 and pointed the way out. But if the Right right now is too bluffs, there's nothing that pleases me any more. Norwegian food production is fantastic. We therefore need to develop agriculture rather than decommissioning, and the centre party is impatient.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e249	The income target looks positive on the paper, but it depends on a fairly strong job on market balancing. Even if it looks like one can get a certain increase here, there's a lot of work left if one should be able to do it. That's why SV doesn't include that formulation. If you look back at the treatment that Stortinget had of the big message for agriculture, there are especially two things that are going on there, which I want to draw out. The only thing is that there is a large number of people on the Stortinget saying that we want to increase food production based on Norwegian resources. This means that one must have a spread of agriculture, and one must use much more of the land that we have in the whole country. The government's mission is to develop a policy that favours the small and medium-sized enterprises in the whole country, strengthens the channelling policy, strengthens grain production in the regions of the country that are good at it, and increases land use throughout the country. There are massive pluralities for that on the Stortinget, and the means to achieve this is among other things. to make adjustments in return and have an offensive income target where we're going to smooth out the differences between farmers and other groups in society. And then we get a result this year. First of all, the positive thing is that one has agreed, second, that one has an income target that at least on paper follows the objectives of the Storting. But then there are also some problems. The grain area actually goes down. There has been no less use of cereals since 1972. In areas such as Vestfold, Akershus and Hedmark, one can see that the area goes down and grass takes over, is contrary to the main objective of channelling policy, that one should produce grain where it was suitable for grain, and grass where it was suitable for grass. It is the largest producers of cereals that are attracted to the government's efforts. This means that in the more marginal regions of the grain area it actually goes down, and this undermines the policy pursued by the Stortinget. The joint acquisition concluded in the hearing of the Stortinget, which was organised by the Committee, that this was a bad year for Norwegian grain production. And then we get to the second problem, which is the same thing -- maybe even bigger and even more pressing. It's about milk. We are still living on the 2014 loss, which was the first stated by the government party, where there was seen an incredibly high quota cap on milk, and no roof – that is, a distant roof – on animals. This puts an unlikely pressure on rural agriculture, and it has, among other things, led to a shift in the value of the allowance prices. This, combined with quota rentals, has resulted in an unrealisticly high quota price for milk in this country, according to Landkreditt Bank – and in a situation where we are actually going to produce less milk in a short time, and where the only measures the government party sees are measures that are going to put pressure on the price that milk producers get. And then what happens? Well, they're the ones that have small margins, which are going to lose the most. It's just the scattered agriculture that's going to lose. If one adopts a policy where one builds up the agricultural area and the grain area and where the effect of the policy is that dairy producers in rural agriculture are phased out further, it is contrary to the main objectives of the Storting that one should have a farm where one produces more of the food on Norwegian resources and uses more of the country. This is versus the superior goals of Stortinget. So I'm not impressed with the result the parties have become a few about. This is a recipe for centralization, contrary to the orientations of Stortinget. I can't see how this is going to bring us to sea with what is perhaps the biggest challenge facing Norwegian agriculture in the long term, namely that in the world, the use of land generally goes down. The earth is being swayed around the world. We need to build a larger production of food in our own countries, and this is a recipe for the opposite. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e264	The number is out.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e269	The left is concerned that agricultural policy should be based on the fact that the farmer is self-employed. We believe that the agricultural policy of the future must be designed in such a way as to give each farmer a greater room for action and greater freedom, with economic security at the bottom. Since the Left joined the government, we have reached an agricultural agreement between Norway's Bondelag and Norwegian Bonde and Small Farmers' Teams. This isn't random. The left has consistently focused on small and medium-sized enterprises. We've also done that in agriculture. In the agricultural settlement of the year, we have given considerable priority to budgetary resources for small and medium-sized applications. This contributes to the exploitation of the entire country. We're also very satisfied with the In line with the agricultural notification, it is added to an increase in income that is higher than for ordinary employees. Producers of cereals, potatoes and vegetables receive the largest income growth, while strengthening the rural profile, the structural profile and grazing subsidies for grass-based livestock. The management of agricultural holdings ensures active agriculture throughout the country and strengthens the division of labour in Norwegian agriculture, in order to maintain the areas of cereals and greenery production. At the same time, grass-based livestock production is concentrated in rural areas. The left is well pleased that the distribution of resources across the country provides great diversity and unique opportunities for housing and value creation in the districts. Living throughout the country — with grazing animals — is also important for cultural landscapes and the pollinating insects. On Monday, the news came that the re-disposal of food for other purposes is on its way down – finally. It's record-breaking, it's important. Even if it goes the right way, we can't just lean back and say that we're satisfied with today's state. In particular, those who experience large expansion presses, such as Akershus and Vestfold, still have a long way to go. Soil protection and protection of cultural landscapes are prerequisites for future food production. Norwegian food production is important for the country’s food security. Norwegian agriculture depends on a stable climate and balanced biodiversity. The agricultural settlement of the year contains not only measures to take care of pollinator insects but also helps to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and improve water management. Last year’s drought caused dramatic consequences for parts of Norwegian agriculture. It also showed the importance of active farming across the country and the use of both land and land. So, of course, there are some challenges that lie here -- some have been within it a little earlier. We have very good farmers in Norway, which also means that production is increasing. We are close to the roof of the bearing productions, like meat and milk. I don't think the solution is just a reduction in milk production due to the lapse of export subsidies. Here one has to look at other options – as also pointed out in a note from the majority parties – for example. export opportunities for food from Norwegian agricultural food production. That'll be a very clear possibility. Just in the situation where one chooses to scale down, there will also be a challenge, primarily for rural agriculture. I think the Center Party also has to take over – although there might be some other thoughts in that camp, even though it might not be quite at the moment. Then the channelling policy is important, as was also the previous speaker. For a long time, the left has been particularly concerned with the channelling policy, the production of cereals to produce cereals and the production of grass on the grasslands. For just that twist – like Norwegian Common Purchases, but also several others call for a warning – where one gets more and more grass production in the classic cereal regions, agriculture will weaken over time. Therefore, the grain area must be used for cereals and the grass area must be the basis for grass. Otherwise, it is worth noting that in all the settlements in which the Left has participated since 2014, income trends have gone straight ahead. There are also opportunities – although some are opponents of it – for those who want to bet. The left has faith that the possibilities must give, but at the same time hold those who want to drive a little less.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e290	In the negotiations on the government platform of the current government earlier this year, the Christian People's Party took the lead in establishing the broad lines of Norwegian agricultural policy. The government has, among other things: an expressed objective of using the agricultural holding to strengthen the basis of a varied structure of use and a geographical distribution of production which ensures the basis of production throughout the country. It is essential for keeping agricultural land operational and thus ensuring food production also in those parts of the country where geographical and climatic conditions do not provide the same economies of scale as in central agricultural areas. In order to achieve these objectives, it is essential to ensure the availability of income for different sizes of use. In the Granavolden Declaration, the government has defined an ambitious income target for agriculture. Business operators in all productions and in all uses shall have real opportunities for income development in line with others in society. In order to ensure recruitment and income opportunities for those who use all or most of their labour in the industry, it is important to reduce the income gap between agriculture and other groups. For the Christian People's Party, it was therefore important and gratifying that on 16 May this year the state and the peasant organizations agreed on an agricultural agreement with a total framework of 1.24 billion. kr. The framework provides room for agricultural income growth of 6.25 p.m. after the government has committed 400 million. kr to height increase is equal to the percentage growth compared to other groups. Thus, in the Christian People's Party, in understanding and dialogue with our government partners, we have also fulfilled one of our most important promises to Norwegian agriculture. In 2020, agriculture will have a stronger income growth measured in crowns than other groups of society. The difference of SEK 600 per year in the favour of agriculture is modest, but the signal effect of having achieved a better chronic development for agriculture is very important. In its first agricultural settlement, the non-socialist majority government shows that the ambitions for a good income development for farmers are translated into practical action. The structure also has a good profile in terms of structure and geography. The smaller cereals come out well in income together with fruit, berries and vegetables producers. At the same time, small and medium-sized dairy farms also have a good income development. This strengthens the channelling policy, and the focus on farming across the country with varying use sizes is continued. It is now, in particular, in the production of cereals, vegetables, fruit and berries that there is a potential to absorb increased revenues in the market. It corresponds to consumer trends, where the consumption of meat decreases and the consumption of fruit and vegetables increases. Therefore, it is natural that this is where income trends are best in the context of the year’s agricultural settlement. We in the Christian People's Party also note that the parties have agreed to establish an advisory panel to present a long-term plan for enhanced innovation, growth and increased Norwegian trade for green production. That's how we see it, a proper and important grip. Like the parties to the settlement, we record concerns and concerns about the development of the milk market and, therefore, about the income development of milk producers during the contractual period and in the years to come. Both the evolution of the price level of the purchase and rental of allowances and a large but necessary reduction in the total volume when export subsidies are phased out in 2021 contribute to that turmoil. For milk, this means that the production target has to be reduced by about 100 million litres from next year and the contracting parties will discuss how the reduction is to be carried out. One alternative is to increase the purchase of allowances by the country and finance it with a turnover tax. When production needs to be reduced due to new international legislation, it is our opinion that the industry has the primary responsibility to scale production in line with new framework conditions. The parties have also agreed that the scale will be applied by applying the ratio of the available quota and buying-in of milk quotas with funding over the turnover tax for milk. An overall scheme shall be in place by 1 October 2019 at the latest and the current system for the purchase and sale of milk quotas will therefore be suspended at the end of the current period on 1 August of this year. In respect of the negotiating institute, the government parties do not wish to lead this demanding process in their comments. Nevertheless, in the Christian People's Party we will follow this work with interest. It is hardly to be taken too seriously if we assume that the economic impact of the regulation of the milk market will be a hot topic at next year's agricultural negotiations, given that this year the parties conclude that the agreement concluded does not provide a basis for numerically determining the effects. With these comments, we in the Christian People's Party will congratulate the parties on an agricultural agreement that will be remembered as one of the best after the millennium.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e313	A living and active agricultural policy is for me the responsibility of the administrator: using the resources we have received, in a sustainable way, for the benefit of both society and future generations. The size of the budget is currently dealing with a new agricultural agreement with both agricultural organisations, and I am pleased with that. Last year's extraordinary summer with heat and drought, reduced income and increased costs, in particular for the purchase of feed, contributed to a demanding starting point for negotiations, from the farmers' point of view. I believe there is reason to commend the peasant organizations for a constructive process. I think it's a good deal, which gives good incomes in agriculture and helps to build an active agriculture throughout the country. This year's agreement provides a basis for an agricultural income increase of 400 million. kr in addition to the percentage of equal growth. The agreement is well balanced and takes into account varied usage structures, different productions and not least geography. Good market alignment is a prerequisite for good income development. The Government wants a maximum share of revenue from the market. To strengthen the basis for increased value creation in the years ahead, we therefore have priority areas with market opportunities, such as cereals, potatoes, fruit and vegetables. We have to make good use of the agricultural land we have in Norway. We have to grow grain where it is suitable for grain, and grass where it is suitable for grass. The agreement strengthens the basis for the geographical distribution of production. It is a good priority for small and medium-sized applications. It's important to the districts. We are further adapting the subsidy to grass-based productions to areas where farming is more demanding, and we are strengthening the bet on grazing. At the same time, the agreement provides for a significant strengthening of the cereal economy and other plant-based food production. Climate and environmental work is essential to ensure sustainability and to maintain productive capacity over time. The agreement increases the environmental measures by 236 million. kr. Then we have our own climate negotiations going on now, where I will also praise agriculture for a constructive and knowledge-based approach. We aim to complete this work within a short time. Agriculture is committed to taking responsibility, both in terms of reducing emissions, and also in terms of contributing to the solution to this important problem. As regards the scale-down of milk production as a result of the closure of export subsidies on 1 July next year, the parties agreed to come back to the specific arrangements for this until the autumn. This is a big and demanding case, where we need the best possible and best facts, and we will therefore continue to work on this until the autumn. Finally, I would like to point out two areas in which I, as the Council of State, am particularly pleased. Both as government council and as KrFs, I'm busy with the families, and that's also true of farmers' families. Therefore, we also strengthen welfare systems, so that you have the opportunity to take a vacation and have more time with the kids, even if you are an active farmer. Good welfare arrangements are very important for families entering this labour-intensive industry. It's also important for recruitment. In this area, we and agriculture had the same priority. We also did that with regard to the desire for a strong commitment to the green industry. That's my whole heart. It is good for public health, it is good for the climate, and it is good for self-sufficiency. We should eat more fruit and green in the years to come. In sum, I believe that this year's agricultural agreement is a good, balanced and targeted agreement, an agreement that provides good incomes and contributes to an active and sustainable agriculture throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e339	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e344	During the previous enlargement period, the Stortinget addressed the Agriculture Communication, and a joint committee concluded that in order to achieve the overall objectives agreed here on the Stortinget, agricultural policy must ensure that the structure ‘adapts the resource base of all parts of the country’. The unrealistic quota ceiling imposed by Sylvi Listhaug is contrary to what the Storting has adopted. Will the Minister of Agriculture make sure that this is changed and that we have a policy that is in line with what the Great Britain has adopted?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e349	First, I would like to point out that when the Sandtroe made his contribution to the pulpit, he said that it was 900,000 tonnes. That's 900 tons. It's a high goal, I totally agree with him in that. At the same time, we have quota regions to ensure that the quotas remain within the regions, which also ensures that there are milk quotas in the district of Norway. And then I'll look at this evolution. Because it is clear that we need to look at the challenge – and I will do this with agriculture – in order to get down to what is the bearing figure. But I'm going to do that with agriculture and not now.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e356	It was actually a pretty uplifting answer, because then I hope that there will be a change, and that it will come as soon as possible. The truth is that everyone is losing weight on the policy that Sylvi Listhaug has pursued, because only money is being drawn out of those who are active in the industry, and transferred to people who are passive, and to the financial markets. That's the result of this. But then to grain: it has been wrongly produced from the pulpit here as that would lead to a change of meaning. In this case, policy needs to be improved on several mechanisms. Among other things, it is particularly the cereal producers that are around the very best areas that we have to bring. That is why I want to ask the Council of State, since it has now been focused on channelling policies: will we get better cereal policies in the next few years?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e363	If it's something I'm occupied with, it's using our resources properly. We have 3 pst. land cultivated in Norway, and then we have to manage it properly. It is then important that what is suitable for cereal production or green production is used for it and that what is suitable for grass production is used for it. We have started a process of this agricultural settlement, which was also the focus of both organisations, the Norwegian Bond Team and the Norwegian Bond and Small User Team, to use District Norway properly and at the same time channelling so that we use our natural resources in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e368	The Norwegian Joint Purchase informed at the hearing that the area under cereals could continue to fall as a result of this agreement. Does the Council agree that the grain area will still be able to fall when we know the result after the end of the year?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e373	Whether the grain area goes down or not depends on a lot of things. It's about both the price of cereals and how we facilitate the production. It's also about which crop a sheep, which result the farmer gets – last year, not even got a census for the areas you had, because the climate hit – as well as whether we can keep a strict soil protection, so that we actually use our land to grow food, and not to build on. So there's a lot of things that determine whether we can create this. It depends on a lot of things, but I'm going to do what I can to have an active policy that ensures good grain production in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e378	Part of what finances agricultural production this year is that agriculture should be better paid for its goods. One must therefore have a better market balance. It is the responsibility of agriculture to ensure the balance of the market, while ensuring that agriculture has the means to ensure consistency between supply and demand, so as to ensure proper prices. Then my questions to the Council of State are simple: does the Council of State see the need to strengthen the means by which agriculture balances the market?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e385	Yes, supply and demand can be crucial for whether the market takes out products, but demand is also about other trends – we know that. International trends affect, and advice, e.g. dietary advice, influences. So instruments are not just about money use. It's also about giving proper advice and using those channels. In addition, there is also a challenge related to how we manage to get them into the market. Who will control what goods are in the market at all times? I'd like to be able to look at instruments, but I don't guarantee that we'll change that. If we're going to do that, we're going to do it in dialogue with agriculture. We're not going to override agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e392	I had hoped that the Council of State would show some of the work done in the Council of Turnovers, and not explain it with this rental trend that people are replacing cow's milk with almond milk. It brings me to the next question, which is about the huge increase in imports of food that we have experienced in recent years. The import quotas for food have been extended in the EEA Agreement, new free trade agreements will be concluded, free trade agreements negotiations will be held, including: Mercosur Agreement. My question is: does the Council see the need to take action to limit this growth in imports as an experience, for example: by strengthening customs protection, inter alia: by extending the period of customs protection of fruit and vegetables?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e401	I want to start by saying that one of the pillars on which the Granavolden platform is based is a strong import protection, precisely to safeguard the opportunities available to produce in our own country, with short growing seasons and often more expensive production, because we have costs other than those of other countries. In this way, I am concerned that as we increase green and fruit production, we must also be able to take it out in our market in a good way. I don't want to go in concretely and say whether to expand or not, but we have to look at things so that we can get out what's in our market as well. I want to say one more thing: we don't live alone in this world. We're dependent on exports. Norway is one of the countries in the world that export most from the population. That means there has to be trade both ways. We have to balance this in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e411	The State Council's own party, the Christian People's Party, and SV share the involvement of small and medium-sized farms – district agriculture – in the country. It's because we view them as the key to actually using the earth, to realize the vision of a Norwegian food production that is based on Norwegian resources and that we produce our food ourselves and do not import too much from abroad. We are in a situation where milk production in Norway must be drastically reduced. Then the question is, how are we going to bring him down? Should we bring him down to put pressure on the small and medium-sized ones, or should we put it up in another way? And then my simple question is: could the Council guarantee that a reduction in milk production will not go beyond small and medium-sized milk producers?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e416	I share the representative's commitment to small and medium-sized applications, because we depend on them to use our resources properly. We are a diverse country. Everything is not flat Eastfold or flat Iron. We have a diverse country, and we're going to spend the resources on it. Then we have – and that is wise, I think, although challenging – made it so that we have regions for milk quotas as well, just to take into account that we are a diverse country. That means that when we're going to go into discussions with agriculture for the harvest about how we're going to do this, one of the things we're going to do is to make sure that we're going to take care of agriculture all over the country. Milk production is an important part of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e421	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e428	It is very gratifying that agreement has also been reached this year between the parties to this year's agricultural settlement. The result implies better opportunities for agriculture throughout the country, says the Farmers' Laws in Trøndelag – an optimism and the opposite message of the representatives Sandtrøen and Knag Fylkesnes put forward in their contributions. Then there was also a billion bid from the state that was put on the table. A chronically higher income trend than other groups reinforces an already positive trend. Tax relief is provided through increased agricultural deductions – an advantage for the operational, good agronomist For Trendelag, which stands for 20 pst. of food production in Norway and with the full range of productions and complete value chains, this year’s settlement offers exciting opportunities. The comprehensive fruit, berry, green and potato innovation and growth package is one of them. It's important for Turkish agriculture, and here we have a lot to contribute. Take Frosta, the whole Trøndelag kitchen garden, with its strong producer environments. There is a great deal of excitement among innovative and creative green producers that are driving offensive product development and investment in more further processing and new markets. Another important contribution to this year’s agreement is renewable energy, technology, precision agriculture, research and development measures. Agriculture is not just an important player in cutting climate change emissions. In fact, Norwegian agriculture is part of the solution to the climate challenges. In the transition to better climate solutions, we need new technologies and more knowledge of the bioeconomy and the circular economy. Here, Trondelag, with strong environments of competence and research, has something to contribute to the green shift. NIBIO, co-located with Nord University, and the climate award winner Mære Agrarian School are both in the forefront of this work. Maar was established as early as 2000, almost 20 years ago, a development department offering courses, among other things. for agricultural climate and energy measures. In 2002, the Matnavet was established in central Norway. The food hub coordinates and offers competence to local food producers throughout the region on behalf of Innovation Norway. It has helped to make Trunde layers the local food state number one. In the last ten years, Mr Maar has also worked on concrete energy measures, research projects and has invested heavily in environmental technologies. The Government has contributed significant grants to support this important pilot work. This year's agricultural agreement is a cheek egg. It prioritises cereals and greenery on areas suitable for it and grass-based production and livestock farming in the districts. The agreement facilitates better use of market opportunities, while having a clear rural profile. Prioritisation of small and medium-sized livestock farming, improved grazing schemes and measures to increase the use of land resources also contribute to this. Not surprisingly, both Turkish farmers and colleagues all over the country are satisfied.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e444	Finally, if the farmers had been satisfied throughout the country, I guess the Center Party would not have had the measurements we have at the moment. Much would have been better if the Senterpartiet had been overthrown, but I want to pay tribute to the agricultural organisations – Norway’s Bondelag and Norwegian Bonde- and Small User Teams – who will have to negotiate the agreement we are seeing today. Much could also be worse. We get a boost for cereals, fruit and vegetables, like a screaming market demand. It provides increased Norwegian self-sufficiency. Fortunately, even this year, small and medium-sized uses are not the losers. Our ambitions for agriculture throughout the country still have hope. I would like to extend my regards to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. If everything was so good with today's government, why is it the first agricultural settlement in six years with expected salary growth per year with the Advance Party in government? And why is the expected salary growth of the year $600 per year, while in 2013, when the Senterpartiet managed the Ministry of Agriculture, it was $6,000 per year? And to the left's representative: if the left is so concerned with the use of the field and we're going to have a live grazing, why is the predator management, with the left in the head, as it is? Why is there hardly any animal left in the outfield of Hedmark? Is it helping to increase food production in Norwegian resources to re-expand and to shift farmers to other production and operations? Dear Minister for Agriculture and Food! This year’s settlement includes funds for mountain and arctic agriculture with a three-year commitment. That's great. The population believes this agriculture is important, agriculture believes it, and now the government recognises it. Years ago it was about a mountain strategy, developed by NIBIO. Government councillor Bollesstad's predecessor, Hoksrud, blew something like that off in 2018, but I believe it is still the basis for such work, and especially in connection with these fresh means. Governments are particularly concerned with funding for climate action. Here, the knowledge from the mountain and the research into varieties that tolerate tough climatic conditions is valuable to ensure self-sufficiency even with more weather and wind. There's a lot of possibilities here. This is very positive, and we have to take that with us and build on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e455	It is gratifying to record that an agricultural agreement has been concluded with both the Norwegian Bondelag and Norwegian Bonde and Small User Teams for 2019. Thank you very much to both the organizations and the state council, Olaug Bollestad. It is nice to note that more and more farmers are satisfied with the development of agriculture and that optimism and belief in the future are increasing. We notice that when we travel around the country with the Right Agricultural Network. We've been in many states and have the ambition to visit everyone during this period. Everywhere, we meet proud and offensive farmers who develop and further develop their products and use new technology. The feedback depends on where in the country we are, and what production we are talking about, but basically they're very good. The possibilities of exploiting existing potential are often highlighted. Then it's about being able to invest and have a production that can handle the investment. It is also about framework conditions that do not stand in the way of making a reasonable profit on, for example. short-term food and drink – which this government has well prepared. We have a fantastic agriculture and a fantastic food production, good animal welfare and little use of sprays and antibiotics. This is a unique advantage that we should take good care of. Finally, in my post, I want to lift up the entrance to the tune, a fantastic concept, where the farm is the arena for the production of welfare services both within school, health, rehabilitation, mental health, dementia and much more. Here, Norwegian farmers all over the country contribute to giving people meaningful tasks, contact with animals, physical activity, meals and community, thus making an important societal task at the intersection of welfare services and business development. The offer provides mastery, development and well-being for very many people, and I would like to thank all those who are engaged in this work, and not least the municipalities that facilitate cooperation that gives these farmers predictability, which allows them to plan for some time. In this connection, I can mention Lindland Gård and Mandal Municipality, which have found a good model of cooperation. Agriculture is important primarily for food production, but also for housing, the food industry, other types of business, tourism and, therefore, public welfare services.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e474	We live in a long country where we produce food of the highest quality. But it's wetter, colder, steeper and more remote from us than in many other countries, and the last two years have shown us how wrong it can be when the weather gods don't play along. A cold May can nevertheless give us a promise that 2019 will be better, and that the farmer's barn can be filled again. Norwegian agriculture is important. We have one of the cleanest food productions in the world, and we use little antibiotics and needles. Our products are sought after, and Norway is a strong brand. If you go to a restaurant in London, a little goat cheese from the Jären can, and flat bread from Toten is now to be exported to Singapore. The sides and apple in the bottle have got their cleansing. The possibilities for Norwegian agriculture are high. Together, we need to raise food policy and talk about all the ring-fences and advantages it gives us. The Agriculture Agreement is a framework for living rural areas, good rural policy and world-class food production, and it also regulates Norway’s largest mainland industry. It is up to farmers, within the framework of the agricultural agreement, to exploit the potential that lies there. The agricultural settlement of the year thus provides good opportunities for good income development, and it is also foreseen that farmers should have good welfare arrangements. This year's agricultural agreement has a special focus on cereals, potatoes, fruit and vegetables. This will contribute to increased production and self-sufficiency in areas where there are market opportunities. On a trip in Hardanger recently, the Right Agricultural Network met enthusiastic farmers who called the last years in fruit and green for an adventure. They see great opportunities in the industry. I have recently been recommended by the company doctor to eat more fruit and green, and what is better than being able to eat a short trip. Norwegian berries provide sustainability. A good climate and environmental profile is essential for sustainable agriculture. Agriculture has proved vulnerable to climate change, and it is important that Norwegian agriculture meet a changing climate, while reducing greenhouse gas emissions from the sector. Much is done in technology and automation, and it is exciting to follow Geno's efforts to raise cows to emit less methane gas. Norwegian farmers and agricultural organisations must and must be in the forefront in finding solutions to reduce the climate pressure. Right-wing jobs for a living and active agriculture throughout the country. The agreement presented facilitates better use of market opportunities, while having a clear rural profile. Norwegian farmers are world-class. Today we join in and ensure that they get a good framework to continue their good work. We believe in the Norwegian farmer.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e489	I congratulated the Minister of Agriculture on the job when she got him, and I want to say that it is actually advisable to see that we have received an Minister of Agriculture from the Christian People's Party and not, as before, from the Progress Party. Changes have been made here which do good for Norwegian agriculture. The challenge is that one has tried to correct the dramatic changes that occurred in 2014, following a break in the negotiations, where one turned its back on Norwegian agricultural policy. There was a warning from your neighborhood, but it was not taken into consideration. It was the beginning of the market imbalance that one has for meat in Norway today. It is then strong that the industry will have an income increase of SEK 600 more than others at market level, when we know that the basis for that imbalance is the government proposal in 2014 and the one implemented there. We got flattened, we got doubled concessions on chicken, we got strong increases in milk quotas, and we got larger quota regions. This is one and hassle with today. Then it is a challenge that the industry itself is responsible – what I think is right, it is the industry that should be responsible for market regulation – when the framework conditions are changed as dramatically as they have been done. I had probably had expectations that with the Christian People's Party in the driver's seat they would fix this. I hope they take it further. I would like to remind you that Knut Arild Hareide, when it came to stopping Jarlsberg export, said that this had to be with the state and take the costs off. As it is today, the industry itself has to take it. And who's going to be the toughest? Well, it's the farmers in the districts that haven't expanded to a great extent but have kept production on the resource base they have, and are trying to exploit pasturage on both land and land and exploit production with the lowest possible purchase of feed. What happened after 2014 is that one has received an increase in output – yes, it has me – but mainly on imported raw materials. That's not what's bear power. We have an antibiotic use and an injecting drug use that is quite special in Norway, and it is wrong that one should compete on equal terms with the rest of the world. You must look at the customs protection when something is about to be done in the milk production process. You need to see how to mute the impact of smaller ones who have tried to operate without the large extensions. I want to challenge the Left and Christian People's Party whether they're not a part of the fact that the quota ceiling in milk production today is not viable.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e502	The aim of the government is to facilitate a living and active agriculture throughout the country. The Agriculture Agreement 2019 underpins it and provides a basis for good agricultural income development in line with other groups. The clear district profile of the agreement strengthens, inter alia: agriculture in the West and in Northern Norway. The peasants in the West give commendation and optimistic feedback. It's fun and exciting to be a farmer, they express themselves. New technologies, modernisation of gardening and a clear political prioritisation of agriculture in recent years have made farmers want to and tend to bet. It is also clear that in search procedures for natural and agricultural uses. There is a future of the Norwegian farmer, and it makes me proud and happy. Innovation Norway Vestland has reported record high investment grants for traditional agriculture in Hordaland and Sogn and Fjordane in 2018. These counties are between the most prominent grass and grazing areas in the country, and milk production is the brother of the value creation in traditional agriculture here. Investment projects in milk production have been particularly dominant in Sogn and Fjordane. The largest use in the West has changed everything, now it is important that small and medium-sized users follow, and it provides a good basis for doing so. The fruit and vegetables sector is growing, making up about 12 pst. by the value creation of agriculture. The year’s agricultural policy points to the fact that the sector has many unused potential, and consumption trends indicate that the green market will increase in the future. There is a leverage for the fruit and vegetables sector in 2019, with a dedicated innovation and growth package with increased investment added, recruitment, varietal development and processing measures. Of course, this will also be a warm welcome in Western countries. Hardanger and Sogn are dominant in the country before fruit and berry production, and there is a new give in these areas to develop and strengthen production. We have for the longest time shamed the Senter Party's prophecy of doom. The existing agricultural settlements confirm once again the Government Party's desire for an effective, conversion and forward-looking agriculture throughout the country. The reduction in agricultural area was 3.3 pst. the red-green years. From 2013 to 2018, the decline has been 0.07 pst. While 1 000 gardening was completed in the year when the Centerpartie ruled, the number is now reduced to 700. Date labelling of food is good, we should have had it in politics as well. The Central Party's agricultural policy is likely to have reached its final day of consumption.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e519	Norwegian agricultural food production is characterized by a unique paradox. We have overproduction pressures combined with falling sea level. Could that be true? Yeah, you heard right. We have overproduction pressures, overproduction, combined with an ever lower degree of supply of agricultural food. Indeed, the degree of maritime supply, preparedness, is the social mission of all agriculture. It's getting worse and worse. How in all the world have we come into that situation? It's an overproduction that pushes down the prices of the farmer, and that leads to huge social losses because we produce an item we don't need. This is the clear result of a policy. No industry is more politically governed than agriculture. It is in this room that policy is determined – nowhere else, to the seventh and last. There has always been a problem with good seas supply, while avoiding overproduction. A good degree of maritime supply requires a good economy for those who are going to do the job. They have easy to produce too much. That's the way it is in Norway, and that's the way it is in most other countries. Therefore, you have to regulate, so you have to control, and when the control is wrong, the result is completely wrong. In 2014, a dismal settlement was made in this room, between the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Government Parties, which increased the quota ceiling on milk from 400 to 900 tonnes, which took away the ceiling on the production supplement and which led to the country's share in the purchase of allowances going from 50 to 20 p.m. Did the government parties think this would not work? They probably knew that. There's not sure there were so many who knew it, but someone knew it. And we see the result. So we are in the unfortunate situation, which all people – regardless of whether you can use agricultural policy or not – understand, namely that overproduction pressures cannot be continued at the same time as the degree of maritime supply goes down. It's a basic mistake, and I'll take up what needs to be done in the next article.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e528	When I listen to the debate, there is at least a rhetorical basis in this room to get our food production into a better course in the next few years. Because here in the hall, almost everyone who's been up, has said that it's important to strengthen grain production. Therefore, it was uplifting that the Minister of Agriculture, through his reply, frankly confirmed that the area of cereals could be reduced by the agreement now concluded. That means that when everyone in the room says at least that we want to strengthen cereal production, the policy needs to be improved and strengthened in the next few years, so that we don't say one thing in the Storting, and then the opposite happens on the ground. We can't have it like that. It's not strange and incomprehensible that people start to rush over what's being said, when it's said that we have some goals in the Storting, and then reality goes the other way. It is therefore clear that, throughout today's day, we have to sum up that next year's agreement needs to improve significantly on cereals, so that when I ask the Minister of Agriculture in one year's time, the answer is clear: that this agreement will help to increase the grain area. It will also be an honest answer, and a good and correct answer. What we're discussing today really goes far beyond agriculture and people who are active in the industry, because like the Defense, the production of food and food supply is one of the most crucial issues for people's security. It's very difficult to create security in a country if you only have balls, but not food. Therefore, self-sufficiency, instead of constantly going down, must now begin to rise. So instead of going down, the grain area has to start going up. Therefore, the value creation of our beautiful Norwegian natural resources must start to rise, not that feed imports continue to dissipate the basis for using the beautiful natural resources we have in our entire country, whether it be cereals or areas for grass production in the West and in Northern Norway, which are now falling. Such an honest debate will benefit everyone in our country. It will be very exciting to participate here in the Storting, and it can create opportunities for work for young people – because that is the result if we together are able to strengthen agricultural policy. That is why we must also agree on a fundamental and important distinction: we must have a policy of value creation and production, not speculation. The quota ceiling on milk is driving up prices, and it is a policy of speculation, just as it is in the Party's Party programmes to eliminate property legislation, is a policy of speculation. We need natural resources to be used for value creation and production.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e542	The Granavolden platform gave a good response to this year's climate and environmental agricultural policy. Climate change is one of the main challenges today, and tax policy is an important tool to reduce Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions. The main instrument of Norwegian climate policy is and shall be a cross-sectoral instrument in the form of greenhouse gas taxes and transmissible emission allowances. Until now, agriculture and fisheries have been screened, but we are now addressing these sectors, in close cooperation with the respective organisations, which are also drivers. The right's agricultural network has traveled across Norway, and we see a great deal of enthusiasm among farmers and agricultural organisations when it comes to taking part in the green shift. Gardening tests ideas to reduce CO 2 pressure, farmers set up windmills and use solar cell operating buildings, and interest in bioenergy together with the bioenergy industry provides win-win solutions, with power used in the operation and fertiliser return to agriculture. One tests electrical machinery parks and researches CO 2 bonding in the earth. Overall, we feel that agriculture and farmers want to be relevant and relevant in the green shift. Agriculture is an important player in reducing climate change and, therefore, it is important and good that environmental and climate action in the agricultural agreement is now strengthened by a total of 186 million. kr. Strengthening R & D with regard to the development of plant varieties and animal characteristics that are well adapted to future climate requirements and changing production conditions is also a sign. A good climate and environmental profile is crucial for sustainable agriculture. It is important that Norwegian agriculture can meet a changing climate while reducing greenhouse gas emissions from the sector. Furthermore, the work on better water quality and pollinating insects is also concentrated. All in all, the commitments for environmental and climate action in the agreement now amount to a total of 5 billion. kr, including land and cultural landscapes. This will be noticeable in the years to come, because we have good farmers who will, we have good farmers who will, and we give them confidence and means that we will jointly reach the climate and environmental goals we have seen.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e561	Although we are now in the debate, I would like to take the opportunity to congratulate the parties on the settlement. The figure is actually quite large, and the growth in income can also be boasted by, as the representative Riten did so far. But there is a danger that one through the agricultural agreement only sees the figures in volume and income per year, because then one may lose some of the structural developments at the bottom. One of the things that has been central to the discussion now is that there are actually some unfortunate outcomes of what happened in 2014 and with which the majority of the Storing wants to do something. I get excited when I hear the Minister of Agriculture say she shares the representative Knag Fylkesnes' commitment to small and medium-sized applications. But then it has to be expressed more clearly through the priorities that the country is making towards the agricultural negotiations. It must be made clear that there is a quality we want to continue in Norwegian agricultural production. A varied usage structure and that it is all over the country, I think is some of the identity of the Norwegian people when it comes to Norwegian food production. This is what makes the legitimacy and authority of Norwegian food production as high as it is. Then it is worrying that the grain area has been stepped down: 7 pst. lower than in 2011, and it has not been lower since 1972. Poor profitability in the cereal economy is the reason for this. Of course, this as a starting point challenges our self-sufficiency. Both the Bond Team and the Joint Purchase stated that the development we see is most likely to continue. It is the largest and most efficient uses that are emerging, and then it is pointed out by the representative Sandtrøen that the more marginal cereal producers are slipping out and taking over grass. The second is milk production. How's the Council of State going to solve it? It is nice to hear her do it with the parties, but what qualities and values will the Council of State contribute to the discussions with the milk producers? After all, milk producers are the very bearer of rural agriculture. 900 tonnes – 900 000 litres – there is no doubt that it is challenging for the smaller uses, the more marginal uses and those where the economy is not quite as good. In order to maintain a rural agriculture, milk production must be maintained, but one must do so in small and medium-sized applications too, not only as a priority for the large ones. Therefore, I challenge the Council of State – I see she has drawn – to respond to: How will she ensure, in the future, that grain area will not be lost? How are we going to get a distribution of the milk to be produced in the future so that it does not go at the expense of small and medium-sized applications?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e574	There's a lot of talk about channelling policies and grain area. It's quite right that it's in the edge zone that more people turn with grain and go over to grass. It is, of course, a challenge that is much more complex than what the Sandtrøen representative said here today. It's also about totality. The totality that is about making grain production more attractive, even in what he called the periphery areas, I agree that we need to look ahead. At the same time, of course, is one of the major carriers of milk production. When Tine was at the hearing, I took up whether they saw any possibility of increased demand. Tine said they were doing well. Of course, I was pleased with that. For me, who wants to look at the possibilities in a country that has the best cheese in the world, it is a bit too imperialist to be able to deliver that cheese to the outside world – of course with Norwegian prices. It turns out that we succeed, for example. with Norwegian breeding material. Geno is world-class. The room of opportunity there is great. We also have a great advantage in Norway that nobody mentions anything in particular. It has been updated in Norway, but also outside Norway: we are one of the few countries that have clean groundwater. The importance of being able to produce food when you have clean groundwater is important. The representative of Nils T. Bjørke, who was also central in 2014 – perhaps in a slightly different way than today – is quite right in that the market balance is very important. If you do not have a market balance, the parties, no matter how large the market is – I am among those who think we have to look outside Norway too – will lose weight. It may well be that you have to make an assessment of what was decided at the time, if you don't reach a larger market. And then you have to see if there's any room in the future. It's quite right, which has been pointed out, that we're in the forefront of antibiotic use. We have good numbers on it. We have good numbers for a lot of other things as well in the case of Norwegian animal welfare. It cannot be as the representative Lundtägen says in many ways, or as Hans Rotmo says in the play he set up in his time, that it is a kind of «beneficiary in the sunset». It doesn't want the Left. The left wants a more expansive policy that the farmers will shine forward. I believe that this year's agricultural settlement will deliver.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e589	I need to say something about the agreement from 2013, since it has been mentioned by several representatives, that there was a growth of NOK 6000. Afterwards, after other groups had also been paid, it turned out that the farmers received NOK 500 less compared to other groups in 2013. I would also like to say that much of what was put into the settlement at the time of 2013, was financed by price increases for the individual things. In the case of cereals, I fully agree that some deer have fallen. That's what I think is demanding, but at the same time, the production per dean is going to be equal, that is, higher, and it also means something for self-sufficiency that we can actually increase production. In terms of grain area, I told Sand Throat that I should do my own thing to increase it. That's what I'm concerned about, because it's about channelling. It's about using the areas that are suitable for it. This also means that we have to increase grass production at the same time, because grass is also feed, which is also important in food production – feed for the animals, so that we get good results. So it's about having an active soil protection. It is about drying up the tough decisions, both locally, regionally and nationally, to be able to preserve the soil that actually ensures production and to increase production. Then it's also about facilitating research – because even if you've had good access to cereals in many places, the crops weren't good last year, because the climate made you stand with empty axe. It also does not produce well or produce well. That this is related, it's important that we in this room take over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e600	One of the most interesting features of this debate is to hear the representatives of the special Right Party and the Progress Party, who celebrate the consequences of their own defeats. I think that the Stortinget should be quite happy with the job one has done for agricultural policy since 2014. Of course, one could have had many more offensive bets, so that the level of self-sufficiency was higher, district agriculture was stronger and the imports of food were lower, but if we had done as the Right Party and the Progress Party suggested when they put forward the agricultural message, we had only one goal for agricultural policy, and that was cost-effective food production. At that time the year's agricultural policy had looked quite different. Several have boasted that one strengthens welfare arrangements. The Right Party and the Progress Party proposed to withdraw the welfare arrangements in the agricultural notification. Many are busy in rural agriculture. The Right Party and the Progress Party were included in the agricultural notification, for example: not having a policy to maintain pig production in the districts. All of this stopped the Storting, and it was very important what happened. Then I'll give some praise to the Council of State. There have been many harsh words in the past, they have been completely inflamed, but in line today I heard a Council of State that, on behalf of the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party, was not entirely reprehensible to look at the consequences of the 2014 structural reforms. I heard a government council that was willing to look at customs protection. That's very good. When it comes to agricultural policy in 2013, I believe a discussion around it is of particular interest to them. I think we should hold on by assessing the agricultural situation based on the statements made at the time of its conclusion, and then make sure that the statements made before each agricultural operation are as correct as possible. Then I want to call for a new measure that the Storting has said they want, but as the government, just as the government has looked like in recent years, has fought, that is, a fund scheme for agriculture. Much effort should be made on fruit and vegetables. We know that there are industries that have fluctuations in income, from good years to really bad years. Then, in the view of the Centre Party, a fund scheme would help to mitigate these differences in income and would have strengthened the fruit and vegetables industry in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e621	A move on this debate is that there are some articles blocking the goal. The representative, Frida Melvær from the Right, said in an earlier speech that the government has as its goal a living agriculture throughout the country. It isn't. We know that. With the policy being pursued, living agriculture is not the goal in the whole country. It is being built into agriculture in this country. Within the grain field there is a transition to grass, and on the coast and in the north we see that it is being built down. We're making ourselves more dependent on imported inputs across agriculture. If that's the goal, it's really a bomb. It also makes me think about the contribution of the representative Ørsal Johansen, who said that we must now start talking about the farmer. It's a strange way to put it when one actually builds up agriculture. What does it have to do with things? We're talking about politics, and then we're talking about symbols that don't relate to reality. I would have liked it if we could have an honest discussion where the actual positions were shown, what one actually wants to do. If you want to spend less money on agriculture, and don't want to add up to produce based on Norwegian land resources, but you might want to import more because it's cheaper, yes, then you have to be able to say it instead of hiding behind the kind of phrases that everyone in this room knows isn't related to the case. The big task that Stortinget has imposed on the government is to use the land, spread and expand production, and become more self-sufficient. It's the mission, but we don't see any sign that we're going in that direction – with good will we see some small positive signs here and there, but in a large way there's nothing going in that direction. Then we sat on a big bomb, and that's the export to the United States, the contraction of huge amounts of milk. The response to this may not be that an export strategy from the staging room to which the actors themselves refer is not an option. Then one has to go into this and look at the consequences for Norwegian agriculture of the reduction – is it relative to the major objectives? If one then puts up to the ratio and purchase of production capacity, we know that there is something going wrong with what is our goal: to use the soil and spread production across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e632	Let me begin by congratulating agriculture on the agreement. Agriculture stands for many good and important values in our society, so it is very important that we turn to a policy that takes care of Norwegian agriculture. Some of the main changes the government has undergone are the large increase in the number of full-time farmers. After the Central Party managed to halve the number, this government has raised the number again – to more than ever. I think we should all agree that the full-time farmer is and must be the backbone of Norwegian agriculture. Then it is good to record the willingness to invest in agriculture that we have never seen before. I guess there's nothing that shows better signs of faith in the future than the willingness to invest in your own business. Now we see that the will to produce is so great that there is overproduction in many productions. This is something for market regulators to take over and take action against. One of the major concerns I see in Norwegian agriculture is the growing lack of knowledge of food production in society. Many of the productions are no longer as visible as they were before. Food safety and contamination requirements make it more difficult to demonstrate production. Not least people move into cities, and we get a greater distance from food production. I hope that the Council of State and the Government will look at that challenge and promote measures that can increase the knowledge of the whole population, but most of all young people. In conclusion, I am pleased that the government is adding up to a policy in agriculture that rewards work, that rewards the efforts of individuals, and that we must have market output. I understand that the Center Party wants to spend more money to produce less food, but I'm very happy that it's not government policy. Then it is said from this pulpit that one is pleased that the Progress Party has not fully implemented its proposals for agreements. Yes, that's right, that's what the Progress Party has wanted more than we've been able to do. But everything goes the same way. Everything goes in the direction that the Progress Party wants, it's just that it takes a little longer.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e645	What is the value of Norwegian agriculture? Agriculture was an important part of everyday life and life in the countryside where I grew up, in the West. My experience is that it is not the dream of wealth that is the greatest driver of active agriculture in the West, it is the dream of being able to develop the garden further, so that the next generation can take over even a little better than when one took over. But it's also the dream of producing high-quality food. Climate change puts our societies on a serious test. It could provide a global agriculture with significant challenges, with reduced food production and a sluggish ecosystem as a result. Climate change confronts agriculture with two main challenges: it is how to combat climate change by reducing emissions and increasing carbon capture, but also how to master production in a changing climate, with adaptation to climate change. A recent report shows that Norwegian agriculture in a range of areas is better equipped to meet these challenges than many other countries and continents. But with a temperature increase of more than two degrees globally, the risk of negative impacts on agricultural production is also significant here at home. Agriculture policy is a matter for society, with objectives of preparedness, public health, food quality, industrial development, cultural landscapes, resource management and food security – just to name a few. There has never been more food production in Norway than today, and total production volume in Norwegian agriculture has increased. A shortage in the Norwegian market in sheep and lamb meat has changed, and it has changed quickly, and there are these changes and these major challenges farmers have to face, and we need to find good solutions together. But we now have a good dialogue and a good cooperation. I look forward to the future of Norwegian agriculture, and I am proud of what Western agriculture is allowed to contribute, have contributed and will contribute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e658	The main challenge is overproduction. It's not a market balance, it's a market imbalance. And it's organized by the Left Party, the Christian People's Party, and the government parties through decisions here in the main hall; it's a foundation decision. When Halleland from the Advance Party says that the market regulator has to take it in, it is entirely to aim for faulty flashing. Market regulators just have to try to make the best of what's the situation and a result of what we're doing. The market imbalance affects those who produce the most, the worst, and it should be a cross of thought for those who are too big to produce, because it is these people who labor the most in overproduction. The representative, André Skjelstad from the Left, says that we have to make agriculture shine, and the representative, Eidsheim, talks about handing over the farm in better condition. So nice, nothing would please me more, but we have to see the fact in our eyes: From 1999 until 2018, two out of three dairy production practices are gone. Two of three are gone. There has never been a similar reduction in what is the whole support of Norwegian agriculture. It is not just one party responsible for it; all parties are responsible for it, to a greater or lesser extent. But today's government parties have the greatest responsibility, because they're most concerned about implementing this. I'm so sorry to hear that one is going to hand over the farm in better condition, when the policy is that most people are going to stop operating on their farm. No matter how good they are, they can't do it. There's talk of distribution of income. The setting reads on page 1, second column, third indent, that it is politically determined that the differences in income should continue. There should be no low-wage income system here, so to speak. It has to go on. I'm very pleased with what Aasland brings up. He points it out, and a new government must take hold of it and change it. The position of the centre party is that the societal mission is food security. We need to increase the maritime supply to at least 50 pst. based on Norwegian plants, whether the plants feed humans or feed animals. We have to go back to the old slogan from the interwar period: Build the farm on plough cold, not on a ship's keel. We've done it before. It is not easy, but it is important if it is political will. But it requires quite conscious political priorities and regulation. The free market is the worst that can be achieved for agricultural production and food production. That's the way it is in Norway, and that's the way it is in the whole world.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e677	Norway's largest mainland industry is the food industry, with great value creation and activity all around Norway. The Norwegian food industry is completely dependent on the proper functioning of customs protection and import protection. It is a support bar for Norwegian food production. About 70 pst. the income of Norwegian food production comes from the market, so it is the market which is the main source of income. The food industry is completely dependent on it. Then we see in the government platform that in five places it is referred to as the goal of reducing customs protection – not in the agricultural chapter, which says that there is a need to ensure proper import protection, but in other parts of the government platform it says that it is a goal to reduce it. There I hope the Minister of Agriculture is clear and clear and says about the five other places where it is stated in the government platform that we are going to reduce import protection, that it is not going to happen as long as Olug V. Bollestad is Minister of Agriculture. If you're going to get people to bet, get a security around investing heavily in Norwegian food production, it's just the import protection that's the largest carrier. When we talk about overproduction in Norwegian agriculture, the problem is actually overimport. Because it is not that we produce more food in Norway than what is actually eaten in Norway, but we have so much imports that the sum of imports and production is too large. If we are concerned about the profitability of Norwegian agriculture and food production in the future, we need to look at how we can close more of the import valves that are coming and strengthen import protection – not gradually reducing import protection, as the government platform suggests. Fee policy is also important. As far as the food industry is concerned, the government has pursued a very unpredictable charging policy that has hit the most competitive part of the Norwegian food industry — both in the brewing industry and in the chocolate and beverage industries, a tax policy that has hit the food industry very, very hard. I believe that as Minister of Agriculture and Food, you have a very important responsibility to ensure that you have a well-functioning and good industry in Norway, because that depends on having a food production in all parts of Norway. Then the import protection is the second most important tool we have, and there is a hard fight around it all the way. As the representative Lundtigen said, it is those who produce the most, that are hit hardest if prices go down. For example, there are many dollars in difference on the market. per litre of milk, depending on whether it is produced in Norway or in southern Sweden. If you lose two to three gallons of milk, and you produce one million liters, it's three million dollars. kr into income and bankruptcy. It's that simple and so difficult. Budgets can go up and down. There we can make adjustments every six months, but in terms of import protection, when you first give concessions there, it's extremely difficult to change it. I wish the Minister of Agriculture good luck, and I hope we will get a pass and not just a setback in the case of Norwegian import protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e697	There has been a lot of talk in the debate today about the agreement concluded in 2014, where changes were made to allowances and concession limits. In particular, the representatives of the Centre Party are trying to produce what has led to a crisis in Norwegian agriculture, with sustained overproduction. It's a delusion. I'll take this point by point. As far as the milk quota is concerned, there was also a trend in dairy farmers during the whole period of the Central Party, from 2005 to 2013, which led to greater and less use. We're not talking here about an industry where people sit on the back and wait for grants. This is a forward-looking trader who also sees a possibility of earnings by betting, by building larger and by rationalising. And there has been no crisis in milk production in Norway. We still have farmers betting on milk all over the country, not just in the flatlands of Jären and around Trondheimsfjorden. It's being built new big, beautiful robotics even where I come from in Norway. It's farmers who bet. The fact that it was then to be at a limit of 400 tonnes as if it had been cut into stone, when the producers themselves want to build larger and produce more, does not rhyme. As regards the pig market, it is true that there has been overproduction there for some years. But it was precisely Bård Hoksrud, the Minister of Agriculture and Food of the Progress Party, who took action, who opened up a free-buying system that could be financed from the turnover tax and which was clear that they would look at the concession limits for pig production. Market regulation works, and it is precisely the Christian People's Party that has been a guarantee over the last six years that the main lines of Norwegian agricultural policy should be pursued, including market regulation. This system works. Finally, I would like to stress that in the last two agricultural operations, in particular the last two, it is precisely the small and medium-sized dairy farms that have been the winners in terms of income development. Last year we introduced the pyramid grant, and this year this has been continued, so that they come out well this year as well. It's just helping to ensure that we have an agricultural sector with varying sizes of use across the country. It is an active, forward-looking agricultural policy that the Minister of Agriculture and Food of the Christian People's Party continues, and I am proud of.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e712	First of all, I'm a little surprised that the Left is actually a little more self-searching when it comes to the big changes that were in 2014, than the one that the representative Reiten might take up here from the Christian People's Party. When you look in retrospect what happened, and the warnings that came, I actually expected you to see it a little bit more. The whole meat market is intertwined, and there is no doubt that the large flares caused an imbalance. It seems to me that I should take over and look at how to do it. The same liability for the milk sector. One is actually required to do that. To the representatives of Melvær and Eidsheim, it is good that they are occupied with Norwegian agriculture and take care of it, but they seem to have forgotten that we had met with agriculture from the West, where they clearly showed how developments in the West are unable to follow with the rest of the country after the major changes that took place in 2014. It is good that they travel all over the country, but then one must also try to listen to what is delivered from the industry. To Halleland: He only wants the full-time farmer, and it's just that they build and drive more, which is the important thing. In fact, for me, the most important thing is that we deliver what society needs, and that we can deliver it on Norwegian resources. The challenge today is that many farmers feel pressured to expand so much that in fact, in sum, we have had the imbalance we have had, and in some cases the milk production has been centralised, more than for a long time — and then within the regions that have been larger. But many communities are soon without milk production at all, and it's dramatic, because they should have produced milk, so that we could have increased the grain production on the areas that are suitable for it. I'm a little worried, because it's starting to become too many farmers who really bet, who are actually sitting at last. They can't combine economies of scale, with the demanding geographical conditions that are many places, with being able to function as a family. Then we've done something dramatic with the whole environment in the countryside. It's important to bring it with you.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e723	Thank you for the debate, everyone, so far. It is very good that so many people have been involved in the agricultural debate this year. You could imagine, when there was agreement, that there weren't as many people who got involved, but fortunately we see that there are many who are concerned about Norwegian agriculture. I think I allow myself to sum up a little from what I have heard now, that we are all concerned with Norwegian agriculture, we are concerned that we are going to have agriculture throughout the country. Then we would like to use the debate to discuss whether the channelling policy is working, whether there is grain production where grain production is going to be, etc. The reality is that at least we have to take history with us – because what was the story? What happened to the grain economy when Gunhild Eyeyang sat as Minister of Agriculture? I think it's a little bit important that we take with us such a story, and not least we have to take the story with us when it comes to the weather. What's the weather like for the crops? We know that last year there were great challenges because of the weather. The representative Pollestad draws up the 2013 settlement. Ida, it sounded very good, but the fasitite showed that it wasn't so good; the income growth was 500 kroner lower than for other groups. So that's also a bit of the story. The farmers are self-employed, and it is not the Stortinge that decides on the salaries of the farmers. It's a good platform for government parties to run. I have no problem putting myself behind this government platform and helping us to have a good and uphill agriculture throughout the country. I am very pleased that it is an agricultural minister from the Christian People's Party, and that we have the four parties behind their policies – the government platform. It's not every party's policy, it's the government platform. We know that the Central Party wants to terminate the EEA Agreement and talks about strengthening import protection. A well-functioning import protection is important, but we depend on trading with other countries. Norway is basing large parts of its economy on exports of our goods and products. If this isn't up and going, we don't have much to pay an agricultural settlement with in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e736	The representative André N. Skeleton has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e741	Import protection is important, but the societal mission – as Per Olaf Lundtigen pointed out – does not consist solely of self-sufficiency. It consists of preparedness, cultural landscapes and not least housing and is also important for more industries, such as the food industry, but not least for travel. We're focusing on this composition. So it's said a little bit here about milk consumption, which I want a few brief comments on. In 1981 we were approx. 4.1 million inhabitants, today we are «roughly» 5.3. With what is also imported, there are 200 million litres of less milk consumption in Norway per day. We also have to take that over. That's why I think it's important to look at the possibilities that Tine also pointed out during the hearing. Otherwise, I would like to mention that I think it is a little special today – I have been involved in hearing all the comments on the agricultural agreement since 2014 – that the Norwegian Farmers' Team is not listening to the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e750	It was the representative of Reiten who made me take the floor. I would like to stress that we have not gone into the debate here and tried to produce Norwegian agriculture as if it were in crisis. But we've underlined some development trends that are really quite critical, and that are a bit serious, linked to the wish of the Christian People's Party, the Workers' Party, the Center Party and SV of an agricultural industry all over the country – that we also want to use the areas that are more marginal, to produce food on. Then we are in a slightly more demanding situation, and I am glad that the Minister of Agriculture is answering questions here in the Chamber. It is a year ahead of us that will be quite decisive, and that is when I agree with the representative Ebbesen and am pleased that we have an agricultural minister from the Christian People's Party. It is a long way to be preferred to an agricultural minister from the Progress Party. But the assumption must be that it is the KrF policy that is in the bloodstreams of the Minister of Agriculture of the Christian People's Party, and that she does not steer forward on the centralisation policy that an agricultural minister from the Progress Party put forward in 2014. So for the milk production, which I think is the support of Norwegian agriculture – the basis of the rural profile. There is no doubt that the increases — from 400 tonnes to 900 tonnes, or from 400000 litres to 900000 litres — are quite demanding. It's not a crisis right now, but when you're going to cut down on production, a very quick hit can be the smallest, the marginal, the medium. That's what we've seen in the evolution trend -- these are the ones that are being shelled by, not the biggest ones. This is what I have asked the Council of State for, and I have not received a reply to it: how will one in the year before us ensure that one does not end up taking out the smallest and medium-sized milk producers when one is about to bring down milk production? This is quite essential. 100 million litres of milk must be removed – at least. That means over 100 of the biggest manufacturers, if any. Is that dramatic? Of course, it is dramatic for Norwegian milk production. It's even more dramatic if it's taken out at the smallest, because it makes a pretty big jump in rural agriculture. And when rural agriculture ceases, some of the quality of Norwegian food production throughout the country ceases. It's quite essential. That's why we're in a critical era in turning the structural approach that was taken in 2014. I think I really have the Minister of Agriculture with me on the idea that milk and cereals are essential if we are to succeed in a policy where we use the whole country and have a varied usage structure as the basis for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e763	The representative Geir Pollestad has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e768	I mean the most clarifying post we've had today, was from the representative Steinar Reiten, who could warn that the Christian People's Party is fully behind the structural changes that one made in 2014. It's new to me, and I'm very happy that the Minister of Agriculture has a more balanced approach to this than the representative of Reten had. So to the representative of Skkelstad, who would like to have more audience for the debate. I know that Norway's Bondelag is present and follows the debate. I would also like to tell the representative of Skkelstad that if he had been at the annual meeting of the Norwegian Association, he would probably have recognized the people who are present from there.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e775	To the representative Pollestad: It is probably that someone is using a lodging and not just the gallery, and many are also watching TV, but there is no doubt that the Norwegian League of Bonds is following the debate. What I'm reacting to in this debate is the attempt to pooren Norwegian agriculture, as I know from my district, around Mjösa in particular, which is very offensive. They invest a lot, and there are quite a few young people who are betting big, who are going to be in agriculture, and who are going to see a future. It is a balance to give those who will, an opportunity, while at the same time having challenges in the structural development that has gone on over many, many decades. It is well worth drawing out both Anne Vik and Gunhild Eyering in a debate. There are hardly any who have influenced structural development as much as the two councils of state. There is no new phenomenon that we have structural challenges in agriculture, with technological developments taking place. One concern we are also going to take seriously is that agricultural professionals are becoming more and more focused. When milk producers, vegetable producers or fruit and berries producers get a little bigger and a little more alone, there is more to those environments of competence. It is also part of the structural development of agriculture. There is a lot of exciting happening on the technology side, with precision farming, with the electrification coming in, and a putting in use of new types of fuel. On Toten they establish biogas plants. Farmers go together to put biogas on the tank instead of fossil resources from the North Sea. There is great optimism and still a great diversity. The summer of drought 2018 has not been mentioned very much in this debate. It also says that we turned around and bisto by over 2 billion. kr after the challenging season we had last year. That's a lot of money. Not many countries in the world are able to assist agriculture in this way. So there were some farmers who noticed that there were certain areas that had gone out of production, or that we had not used, a little for convenience, a little because of the structural development that is going on, or because the technology helps us harvest more, closer to where we operate. We have to take care of altitude agriculture, the settling, to meet the challenges. In the spring, there have been many places almost too wet for you to come out and set the crop, so we have different climate challenges that we're going to be able to meet.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e790	The representative Steinar Reiten has spoken twice before in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e795	Just a brief reply to the representative Pollestad: Yes, in 2014 I was among those in the Christian People's Party who thought that the time had come to look at the concessional limit for milk. It could be good to hear from the representative Pollestad if he believes that the limit should again be set at 400 tonnes. In the case of pigs, I just repeat what I said instead, that a state council from the Progress Party took the necessary steps to ensure that market regulation works, so that we are now soon back in a situation where there is a balance in the pig market, and that a greater extent can be drawn from increased income also in that segment of Norwegian agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e803	I would first like to thank you for the commitment to Norwegian agriculture. I think it's great to be in it. Although we have different devices for any of this, it is quite brilliant for Norwegian agriculture that the involvement is high in Stortinget. There have been structural changes over time. I'm just thinking back when we got a joint drive over that pretty country. Small farms merged, and one got a top quota of 750,000 litres. It's been quite many years. It was a major structural change. To the representative of Terje Aasland: I have no doubt that in many places there is a challenge in that it is 900 000 litres. I'm aware that this can be a challenge in many places. What is also a challenge is that there are small farms – which I have been so lucky to have visitors – that have been taken over, and which were almost separated, that are struggling to get on the market with their products, especially fruit and vegetables, because the chains have decided who to enter. It's also a challenge that we have in common. Finally, yes, I am concerned with milk and milk production and that there will be production throughout the country. I am concerned about having grain production where it is suitable for that. I am concerned about having grass production where it is suitable for it, because it is also involved in increasing the production of feed that the individual farmer has. Yes, I'm busy using different pastures. I know that just spending summer pastures for sheep, among other things, helps get a lot of money in for them. I'm going to use the whole country, use our resources, while we're working together to protect the earth, so that we have something for future generations.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e818	The representative of Nils Kristen Sandrøen has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e823	I want to give tribute to the Terje Halleland of the Progress Party, who had a very honest and descriptive comment. Everything goes the way the Progress Party will – it just takes a little longer. The official figures, all of which are agreed here in the Chamber, show that the level of self-sufficiency is decreasing, which makes people less secure. Indebtedness growth is significantly higher than income growth, we do not know how to last over time, and the grain area is shrinking. This is going the way the Progress Party will – it just takes a little longer. The representative Ebbesen is more concerned about what was under the policy of the 1980s. I think that if we are to provide security for people in Norway today, we should talk about what will be future policy. I have said in the past that next year the Minister of Agriculture must be able to give a clear and clear response to the increase in cereal areas, not, as the Joint Purchase pointed out in the hearing, that they will still be able to go down.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e832	The representative, Mr Knag Fylkesnes, has spoken twice before in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e837	We might sum up today's debate that the government party has no answer to how to stop the quota gap on milk, and how to stop centralization. There is no answer as to how to prevent the weakening of rural agriculture when milk production is going down. They don't answer how to take back and use the grained area. Overall, they do not respond to how the government will achieve the goal of increased food production based on Norwegian resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e842	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has spoken twice before in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e847	State Council Bollestad referred to cooperative operations and 750 tonnes. That's exactly what I'm talking about. It was put in place by the Council of State Kåre Gjønnes with personal advisor Gunnar Dalen in a 2000 Storingsbericht. So it's absolutely correct that there are many parties that are responsible for the situation we're in. We are facing climate challenges and green shifts – it means for the Center Party to bet on the primary industries, to bet on the photosynthetic industries. We then have to get profitability for the people who educate themselves in these industries. Import protection requires us to be outside the EU. We have room for action within the WTO to have better import protection. What is interesting today is that the Greens are not in the Chamber. They're talking about more environmentally friendly agriculture. In their programme, they have not clarified their views on the EU issue. So they have not clarified their views on import protection, and therefore it is not a credible programme without it coming as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e856	We were asked to use the facts here, and some representatives are bobbing with their posts. So first of all, we're going to deal with the official numbers, we're going to be told here. The level of self-sufficiency has increased during this government. The coverage is 90 pst. under this Government. Grain production has increased during this government. Sheep production has increased during this government. Milk production has increased during this government, although we now have to bring it down because of the Järlsbergost. But what's interesting to notice is that the changes that are in structure have come because of changes in society. The fact that we have a centralization in milk production cannot be blamed on this government, because it was the previous government that sat in the chair when Tine began to lay down his dairies. Tine dropped merry after a merry break. But what happened? Well, there were others coming into the same premises and running the dairies very well today. And the production in the districts is maintained – one can see the municipality of Gausdal, one of Norway’s largest milk municipalities. There is less use under this government. Production is increasing, coverage is increasing, we're not building anything down. It was the last government that did. If we're going to have an honest discussion, which someone is asking for here, we can at least not have the representative Knag Fylkesnes in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e869	The representative of Nils T. Bjørke has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment of up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e874	The last speaker made me spend the rest of my time – when one tells such a story. Yes, I mean the production goes up on imported feed, and he's centralized, so we don't use our grazing resources and our grassland in many areas. That's the challenge, we've been saying that all along. Had the representative Ørsal Johansen followed in the discussion today, that is what we have said – that production has gone up. But he has gone up on completely wrong premises when one has increased imported feed in place to use local resources. That's what the challenge is, and that's what we've been pointing at all day.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e879	No more people have asked for the word on case number 1.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e895	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, the opportunity be given to alternates of up to six lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e904	First, I would like to thank the parties for their cooperation in the Committee on the treatment of the reindeer management agreement. Prop. 117 S deals with the reindeer management agreement 2019/2020, concluded between the State and the Norwegian Reinbrutsamers Landsforbund on 26 February 2019. The clean-up and clean-up agreements are the main tools to follow up the objectives and guidelines of the clean-up policy. The Committee welcomes the reaching of agreement between the parties through negotiations. This is a very good agreement, which has a total of 136.1 million. kr, which is an increase of 13 million. kr compared to the contract for the current year – in other words an increase of more than 10 pst. compared to the current agreement. The contract prioritizes those whose main activity is reindeer operations. A separate grant scheme is established for female side-share managers, in order to strengthen women wishing to reindeer. Early retirement rates are increasing to contribute to faster generational transitions, allowing more young people to enter the reindeer industry. This year’s reindeer management agreement continues its efforts to develop the reindeer industry as a rational, market-oriented industry that is sustainable from a long-term perspective and highlights the importance of the equality of ecological, economic and cultural sustainability. Priority shall be given to the premium schemes that strengthen increased production and turnover and facilitate the main reindeer owners. Today, most of the grazing capacity is fully exploited. Norwegian reindeer farming operates on an approximate constant area, where it is important that the total number of pure farms is adapted to the grazing basis. There is a shortage of grazing resources, and good management is required to maintain good weight and good animal welfare. Therefore, the cleaning industry must increase production and profitability through other operational adaptations than through increased livestock numbers. It is important to ensure a stable grid according to grazing resources, and it is therefore important that the reindeer management agreement should support those who have followed up the reduction decisions. If the actual purity exceeds the purity laid down in the rules of use, the excess purity shall be reduced. The reindeer meat market has been developing positively over several years and since 2013 the price of reindeer meat has increased significantly. But there are still some considerable differences in profitability between areas. Annual calf access, annual losses and slaughter weight vary markedly between reindeer grazing areas in Norway. The large variation is due to differences both in terms of percentages per page and earnings per pure, and the latter appears to have the greatest impact on the result. This means that an improvement in the economy of the side shares is primarily conditional on an increase in earnings per pure.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e921	Purification is important for Sami culture, and it is important for Norway. That is why we want to contribute to ensuring long-term sustainability both ecologically, economically and culturally, and a predictable reindeer and stability as a whole is an important part of it. In addition, grazing areas are a very central part of the further development of reindeer management, and the Workers' Party wants to contribute to providing us with maps that provide us with a continuous overview of the development of pastures. That's despite all the pastures that are the very starting point and the basis for reindeer operations, and because we have the great product of top quality that reindeer meat is. With that, I want to address the proposal that the Workers' Party and SV are behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e928	Then the representative Nils Kristen Sandtrøen has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e933	I am pleased that an agreement has been reached between the state and the Norwegian Reinbrutsamers Landsförbund. This agreement provides a good basis for the continued positive development of the reindeer industry. In many ways, sanitation as an industry, culture and way of life are unique in both national and international contexts. It represents a good use of resources in marginal mountain and outland areas. It contributes to industrial diversity and is a central bearer and further developer of Sami culture. The agreement provides for the continuation and strengthening of efforts to develop the reindeer industry as a rational, market-oriented industry that is sustainable in the long term. It continues the rotation of the instruments, with emphasis on nutrition and the organisation of the main reindeer activities. I also record that, in addition to an increase in the regional grant and the establishment of a separate grant scheme for women having their own side share, the direct grant schemes are maintained. Although reported figures show that the total reindeer in eastern and western Finland is below the prescribed level, I dare to point out that it is worrying that there is so much variation between reindeer pastures in average weight. Some districts have an average weight of less than 15 kilograms per calf, and some are down to 13.8 kilograms. It is described that some of this is due to the grazing crisis that arose in winter and spring 2017. Much of the reindeer operation was affected by the crisis, but East Finland’s reindeer grazing area was particularly affected. So this must be closely followed. A stable cut-off in relation to grazing resources is important. This requires a well-functioning market. Reduction in producer price and inability to receive may result in a further increase in purity beyond what is sustainable. In order to prevent this, the contracting parties have prioritised instruments over the reindeer management agreement which facilitate both the increased placing on the market and the slaughter of pure. Today, most of the grazing capacity is fully exploited. It is therefore necessary for the cleaning industry to increase production and profitability by means of operational adjustments other than increased livestock numbers. If reindeer operations are to continue to have an economic basis for full-time workers, while strengthening family-based reindeer activities, it is essential to look at alternative activities related to reindeer management, such as: in travel, learning and care-based services, further processing, local food, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e948	It is good that a reindeer management agreement has been concluded for 2019/2020. The central party wants to strengthen the reindustry, and when we say that we want to strengthen the industry, it not only applies to the economic power, but also to the cultural and ecological strengths of the industry. We recently had a debate in the Storting on changes in reindeer management laws. After that process, I have a clear impression that the government is working in a direction where one wants to make the reindeer industry more like ordinary farming. It is a development that the Centre Party does not support, as it does not take into account the particular position of reindeer as the basis for Sami culture and social life. The centre party will also maintain in this debate the need for a holistic review of reindeer management laws. Reindeer industries also suffer from the lack of balance in predatory policies between grazing and the conservation of predators. The centre party wants a clearer and more effective predatory policy, which ensures the ability to use our grazing resources to produce food. The central part also refers to the input from the Coeting on the land base. There is no doubt that the area of the reindeer industry is under pressure and that the sum of interventions is extensive. When it comes to the question of the extent to which land use needs to be surveyed and an own proposal on it, the Central Party will follow the debate before we conclude – if we think it is necessary to support proposal No. 1 in the case of, or whether it is such that the process described by the Government Party and the Labour Party in the setting is satisfactory.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e959	I'm glad that we now have a more appropriate state council in this field than what we've had in previous years, where a more sought-after conflict than is the case now. I think that is an important step forward. I look forward to the continuation and will follow closely with the Council of State. I'm going to be constructive and supportive when necessary, and critical when I think it's in place. The agreement we have in front of us today has some good things, and then he also shows some challenges, which have not been addressed in previous agreements and which are not addressed here – and then some general considerations in the end. The incentive scheme for women is important and is a good new direction here, and the fact that there are some new things in welfare is also good. We still have major problems with the apprenticeship system, which should be addressed and which are not addressed here. The same applies to recruitment to the industry, which is twice as important both for industry itself and because it is a cultural industry that we have a responsibility to help. For example, in the case of termination models, etc., which one has. in agriculture, is not close to having matching models here. So they make it go around, and it's still attractive, it's pretty impressive. The big community supports agriculture to a very different extent than one does here, and it's worth noting, at least for a wider process. So this is an industry that is under heavy pressure. Different road constructions, development of wind power, power and mines, etc. This industry is challenging many places around the country. We have no overview of the extent of all these interventions and what kind of total pressure it gives for the industry. That's the background for us to think this should be explored. When looking at a whole industry, bulking and government should know the extent of the different measures taken in other sectors, too. In addition, the knowledge base for these interventions is also very deficient. Wind turbines, for example, go a long way. does not affect reindeer. It has been shown to be wrong. It affects Sim, because it's worried about its kids and won't go near these noisy machines, while others want it. So it's very alarming that we've been adding up a conflict model here for a long time. I have to remind you that the whole Sameting, the reindeer industry, and almost everything that can creep and walk by professionals, were strongly critical of the big business message that is at the root of this, because there was a great lack of the knowledge base. So here we have a long way to go, and I'm asking for wisdom from the state, and no more conflict, as it's being put up for today. I'm making SV's suggestion.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e976	The representative of Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e981	The clean-up agreement is important, not least because reindeer operations are not only about reindeer management, but also about the cultural and identity-bearing part, which is very important. Purgatory is operated in the pact with nature, in an ecological sustainability, which of course also has some negative consequences if the land base disappears. The land base is the total carrying capacity of the reindeer. And that's how, as also the representative Knag County was inside his post, the sum of all the extensions makes the land base decrease, not least as in my own area, on the Great Island of Fosen, where it disappears a land base that is equal to approximately. one third of the winter grazing area. Winter grazing is in many ways the minimum factor in the whole area base, because it does not have a good winter grazing, nor does it have the capacity for reindeer farming. That's just what we have to do in-depth assessments of every single case, when one does nature intervention. It may be well and good in many cases with wind turbines in a larger context, but we also have to take care of our indigenous population. For the indigenous population, as these practitioners are, this is not just about the nutritional basis; it is also about a link with those who are linked to the industry but are not reintroduction operators. So I'm very pleased that it now opens up more to grants for recruitment, especially for women, because I think that's important in the future. This is like a number of other primary industries to some extent a little man-dominated, and I think it's important that you get the opportunities that lie there. So I agree with what the previous speaker, Knag Fylkesnes, says, that we need to encourage more interaction and less conflict. That means that we need to have a careful approach and deal with this with land operations, which are in many ways at the heart of many of the conflicts that lie there.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e994	The Christian People's Party is pleased that the parties to the agreement have reached agreement in the negotiations on the Rein drifts Agreement. This year's frame is 136.1 million. kr, which is an increase of 13 million. kr compared to the current agreement, i.e. an increase of about 10,5 pst., which must be said to be a historically good agreement. The sewerage industry is important both as an industry and as a bearer of the Sami cultural heritage. The Sameting has pointed out that the reindeer is a cornerstone of Sami culture. It underlines the need for a healthy reindeer industry that acts both as a food supply and as a cultural carrier. As for all industries, the sustainability of reindeer management is a prerequisite for future development opportunities. The purpose of the reindeer management law defines the concept of ‘sustainable’ by establishing that the reindeer management industry is to be ecological, economic and culturally sustainable. The objectives are interrelated. Ecological sustainability provides a basis for economic sustainability and together provides ecological and economic sustainability with the possibility to preserve and develop the cultural sustainability of reindeer management. An important element in that is that it is possible to live off the operation. The Christian People's Party therefore agrees that priority should be given to the subsidy schemes that strengthen production and marketing and that it should facilitate the reindeer owners whose main activity is reindeer activity. A long-term turn-over towards part-time activities will dramatically reduce the power of reindeer management as a cultural carrier. The reindeer meat market has been developing positively over several years and since 2013 the price of reindeer meat has increased significantly. Nevertheless, there are some large differences in profitability between areas. The wide variation is due to differences both in terms of percentages per page and earnings per pure figure, and the latter appears to have the greatest impact on the result. This means that an improvement in the economy of the side shares is primarily conditional on an increase in earnings per pure. Today, most of the grazing capacity is fully exploited. Therefore, the cleaning industry must increase production and profitability through other operational adaptations than through increased livestock numbers. In this year's agreement, the district grant increases. A separate grant scheme is established for women who have their own side share. The direct grant schemes are maintained and the welfare systems of reindeer management are strengthened. Here, there is particular reason to mention that early retirement rates are increasing significantly. In this year’s agreement, the parties have also agreed to establish a separate pilot project with the aim of establishing an HMS service in reindeer management, which will contribute both to the reduction of industry accidents and to the strengthening of the occupational health service. Overall, it provides a good and forward-looking agreement, and we congratulate the parties on reaching agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e1012	The Landsförbund of the State and the Norwegian Rein driftsssamer concluded the reindeer management agreement on 26 February of the year. I am glad that I could also visit just the NRL on Friday on Summer Island outside Tromsø. Having a dialogue with this industry is incredibly important. The agreement testifies to an offensive reindeer management policy aimed at developing the reindeer industry as a rational and market-oriented industry that is sustainable from a long-term perspective. Purification is a carefully coordinated ecological system based on biological resources, where culture and tradition are an important part of the foundation. I am pleased that the Committee is so clearly committed to the main features and individual elements of this year's agreement. In recent years, there has been a broad political consensus in the Storting about the threat of the reindeer management agreement with emphasis on nutrition rights and the organisation of those with reindeer activities as their main activity. This profile of the contract is continued. I would like to point out that, as many have said, there is also a separate grant scheme for women who have their own side share. After a comprehensive and demanding process, the figures are mainly at the level specified. It will be crucial in the future for us to maintain an ecologically sound figure. The instruments of the clean-up agreement have been designed in recent years to support those who have followed the decisions on the reduction of clean-up figures. This priority is continued in the new agreement. Purification is a family-based industry and an important industry in many communities where the nutrient base may otherwise be relatively low. Today, most of the grazing capacity is fully exploited. Therefore, cleaning families need to increase production and profitability through adjustments other than increased animal numbers. Therefore, it is important to point to alternative reindeer-related activities that can strengthen the economic base, whether it is to establish different things within travel life, or it is about looking at care-based services as a permanent scheme. Otherwise, the entire provision for the Development Programme is continued. The active substances will be of major importance, inter alia: for the development of the value chain for further processing and local food. Purity is a land-dependent industry, which involves grazing throughout the year. Reindeer management has a number of land, climate change, predatory animals and, in particular, specific challenges for cross-border reindeer management between Norway and Sweden. We need to facilitate the best possible response to such challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e1027	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e1043	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that – within the allocated speaking time – up to six rows of replies are given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e1052	I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in the work on the proposal for a representative and the presentation by the Council of State on the supervisory activities of the Food Safety Authority. The background to these issues is that several issues have been presented through the media in which the working methods of the Food Safety Authority have been criticised. When questions are raised in the public debate about the administrative practices of the Food Authority and it is pointed out that it is not in accordance with good administrative practice, as provided for in the Administrative Act, the Right and, fortunately, also a Joint Liaison Committee agree that an independent review of the oversight activities of the Food Authority in both the green and blue sectors must be carried out. Food surveillance has an important role to play in ensuring that both we as consumers and, in particular, those who receive a visit to the Food Safety Authority have confidence that supervision is carried out in a competent manner, in line with the standards of good administration, and not least that the findings presented in the supervisory reports are correct. In my position as a wholesaler, I have occasionally been informed that the Food Authority treats similar matters differently in different regions. If this is true, it is also worrying, but I assume that the Food Safety Authority has control over it. The Council of State briefed in its presentation on the importance of the need for the Food Authority to have the necessary confidence. She was also concerned that she would follow this case further after it had been carried out internal investigations and external investigations around the conditions in Rogaland. The Right and the Business Committee have respect for the approach of the Council of State then and thank you for so soon after the incident that was revealed in Rogaland, she asked to come to the Stortinge and explain the matter. But it has been important for the Committee to point out that this is more than just what happened in the case in question to a fur farmer in Rogaland. Recently, a judgment was also passed in Fosen district court where Lerøy Midt was acquitted of the allegations of violation of the Animal Welfare Act from the Food Authority. The right and the nutrition committee are clear that we can't only have an internal local review, in respect of being dependent on a food surveillance body that has the necessary trust. The right hand and the Committee therefore consider that an external review of the oversight activities of the Food Safety Authority in both the green and blue sectors should be carried out. Finally, I would like to clarify that there are many competent employees in the Food Safety Authority who also contribute to the provision of good quality services. It must therefore not be left to the impression that everything is so bad in the Food Authority, but as I said, we can't afford to have a food surveillance that doesn't have the necessary trust and legitimacy in society. Therefore, an external review of supervisory activities is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e1073	I'll make it very short. Firstly, I would just like to start by thanking the rapporteur and the proposer and the Council of State for the presentation. We fully agree that there is now a need for an independent review of the Food Safety Authority. Confidence and trust are vital. I'm not going to go into all the events that have been, but I just want to stress, since the Food Authority is now in a difficult situation, that there are a lot of important and good supervision every day. If you look at the numbers, it might be over 200 inspections carried out every day by the Food Authority, and most of these are very good supervision and important supervision of food safety and animal welfare. It is important that it is at the bottom, but at the same time it is absolutely necessary to have this independent investigation. I also want to encourage us, once the investigation has been carried out, to have a discussion in one way or another in relation to the Storting, where one can go through the future functions of the Food Authority and the unreserved entrance they have to have to the various tasks they carry out. It is absolutely necessary that we have confidence in that. So I hope the Council of State can also help us get that discussion when the independent investigation is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e1082	Norwegian food shall be safe food and we shall have good animal welfare in Norway. Then we need a functioning food supervision. It's important for farmers and other food producers, it's important for people most, and it's important for them to be added to the Food Authority. This matter was triggered by an episode of a fur farmer in Sandnes, Rogaland, a false report. That story should be known. In the Center Party, we were concerned that this was an expression of a system failure in the Food Authority, and that was the background for us wanting an external investigation. We got the information from the State Council, and the Center Party made a suggestion for an external investigation. In connection with this, a large amount of individuals and individuals have contacted me about their experience with the Food Authority. I am very grateful to have received that, but it is also important to say that I have no wish or basis for evaluating individual matters. It's not Storting's job. And so I also – now when there is a joint committee in favour of the proposal – want to thank the case-speaker, who has contributed to something I think is very important in this kind of case, that we at Stortinget are together. It was when I thought it was a little strange when we delivered the setting the day before we could read in the VG that the government party demanded a payment. It seemed to me to be unfortunate in these kinds of cases, because it was made quite clear that all the parties in the committee supported that proposal. I think this case is too important to scoring some cheap political points, and I'm a little unsure about how much it is worth to inspire the voters that we should have an independent review of the Food Authority. I am busy having a food inspection that can intervene effectively when there is a violation of the law. But I'm also busy having a food surveillance that the food producers perceive as a partner and a consultant. As a result, this process still needs to be improved, marked improvements, in the field, for the benefit of most people, for food producers and – I would like to emphasise that again, as the case-speaker has also done – for the benefit of many competent members of the Food Authority. So I would like to thank the committee for having us deal with this matter in a short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e1097	Unlike the representative Pollestad, I'm probably even more pleased that we get this – if anyone is out there and announces that there is an overall committee. I think this was an important matter, that we now have to establish the necessary legitimacy for the Food Authority, and we do so by getting an independent review, because the Food Authority must have that legitimacy. There must be a similarity in the practice of the regulatory framework within the supervisory activity and also in the important work done in the field of guidance. For the Food Authority to do an important job, not least in the blue and green sectors – in agriculture, aquaculture and fisheries – but we must not forget their role in the restaurant sector, which is also important to be able to point out here. I am therefore looking forward to this being presented to us, and that we are gradually getting away from this, and that we might get a better situation, not least in view of the perception of most people. It's also an important part of it, because the Food Authority is doing an important job.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e1102	In spring 2017, the Stortinget addressed the Communication «Changes and developments – A future-oriented agricultural production». A unanimous increase to four overarching targets for Norwegian agriculture came to an end. One of those objectives was food security and preparedness, and here Stortinget clarified a target structure such as: included ensuring safe food for consumers, enhancing food preparedness and ensuring good animal and plant health. In all these areas, the Food Authority plays an important, yes, crucial role in achieving the goals set by the Storting. Through regular monitoring and checks on animal health and animal welfare and throughout the value chain for the production and placing on the market of food, the Food Safety Authority contributes to ensuring good food safety and animal welfare. At the same time, the Food Safety Authority has an important role in the export-oriented part of the food industry through the certification of Norwegian products to be sold in demanding foreign markets. For us in the Christian People's Party, it is important in this respect to stress that the Food Authority and their employees generally provide very high-quality services in their daily work, and that the dialogue with the business community in the outward part of the Food Authority's administrative practices is essentially good. The fact that the Food Safety Authority carries out annual inspections against 70000 and receives complaints in just over 0.5 pst. subsequent oversight cases, testify to that fact. An example of the ability of the Food Authority to adapt and cooperate with industry is the good dialogue with the aquaculture industries in those parts of the country that have recently been hit by algal blooms and the mass death of fish. Here is the feedback from the industry that you are very pleased with how the Food Authority has met affected companies. However, for the proper performance of the tasks of the Food Safety Authority, this State control and supervision body is completely dependent on the authority and trust of industry, the general public, health and veterinary authorities and our trading partners. Good governance practices, in which those under control experience factuality, good guidance and consistent supervisory and reporting practices across the country, are crucial. Unfortunately, isolated incidents over time carried out by the Food Safety Authority have revealed weaknesses in the oversight procedures that are critical and contribute to weakening the authority and trust of the Food Safety Authority. In a single case, under the supervision of a fur animal producer in Rogaland, these deviations were so serious that it is appropriate to use the term ‘ gross breach of good administration’. Among other things, reporting procedures were identified where the report was subsequently written by others other than the supervisors, and that it led to misreporting — with considerable negative consequences for the supervisor in his/her business. It is therefore important, as the Christian People's Party sees it, that an external examination is carried out in addition to the Food Authority's own review of internal procedures. We state that the supervisory part of the administration of the Food Safety Authority is to be subject to external scrutiny. In the Christian People's Party we therefore stand behind the committee position, and will vote for both Roman I and Roman II.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e1117	Safe food, good food and good animal and plant health shall be – and is – an important support bar in Norwegian food production. Therefore, there are a few things that have upset me as much as they have come to light in the matter of a breach of trust associated with the reputation of the Food Authority. But if we compare ourselves to most other countries, few in our country get sick of the food they eat in Norway. We are also in a unique international situation with regard to good plant and animal health. We have low antibiotic use and low antibiotic resistant bacteria in our food production, both on land and in water. It is also consistently good animal welfare. Then it is important that we have a food oversight that is capable of — and confident in — overseeing this in a good way. Food surveillance has an important role to play in overseeing all actors in the food chain, whether in primary production or beyond the value chain. I agree with the committee, which points out that the Food Authority has a lot of competent staff around the country, and that it is important to take care of the good skills and experience with them. Among other things, the Minister of Older People and Public Health has recently decided to put the Food Safety Authority in the driver’s seat for the monitoring of the state, maintenance plans and investment needs of Norwegian waterworks and mains networks, in view of the serious drinking water problem in Askøy. It is also important that those who receive the Food Safety Authority’s inspection visit have confidence that supervision is carried out in a competent manner, in line with the standards of good administration. And they must have confidence that the findings presented in the supervisory reports are correct. We rely on the confidence of the Food Safety Authority in the population and the use of the necessary tools by the Food Authority in cases where food safety, animal health and animal welfare are threatened, both in the green and blue sectors, but also in health. After my presentation, there was a verdict in the blue sector, and I therefore agree with the Committee, which is now asking the government to launch a broader external investigation, which will cover the supervision activities of both the blue and green sectors. I will carry this out in cooperation with the Minister for Fisheries and the Minister for the Elderly and Public Health, and then I will return in an appropriate way to the Stortinget with the answers that come from that investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e1130	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e1135	This is a situation that requires action in both the long and the short term. One of the things that has emerged is a practice in which the person who writes a post-control report is different from the person or persons who have been on the supervision. Is this a current policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e1140	What I have been told is that the Food Safety Authority itself has said that this should not be practice, and has gone into this with the different regional leaders just to ensure that we have confidence in the reports that are coming. It tends to be common for those who are out of custody to write the reports, and it should just be lacking that we did not have confidence in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e1146	I thank you for your answer. I'm not supposed to follow it on. I just want to challenge a little bit on the time horizon of this: how quickly can such an independent review be carried out? Can the Council say something about how long it can take for us to get some answers?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e1151	Now the Stortinget asks for an investigation, an independent investigation to be ordered from the department and the directorate, while the Food Authority itself has taken action and gone into some of the things that were first shown. In terms of the time horizon, we're dependent on getting answers pretty fast, so this is what we want to click on. I can't say exactly the date and the month, but we want to press it, because there are so many who depend on getting answers and having confidence in this, both in fishing, in health and in agriculture and industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e1156	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e1161	The background for me taking the floor is that the business committee in its position has included the blue sector, and I think that's very clever. I'm going to do my part to get a solid review on the blue sector, too, so that we get forward-looking, consistent and robust supervision that can respond to the expectations we have. We see a tearing trend in the blue sector, both in development concessions and in a variety of areas. It is then important that the supervisory bodies also have sufficient competence to carry out those inspections in this respect. In terms of disease control and good fish welfare, these are some of the most important prerequisites for good and profitable operations in the industry. The Food Authority has a wide range of competence in the field of water and is doing a very good job. We have seen that, among other things. in connection with the work done in Northland and Troms related to the algal bloom that we have had there. I had a meeting yesterday with, among others. The breeders themselves, who gave very much boast and are very pleased with the help they have received in this regard. So it's doing a very good job out there every single day in many areas. But it is important, as the Committee has also pointed out, that when you are out, our supervisory board has legitimacy, understanding and respect. These are also important signals that we send out to our partners in terms of trade regarding the supervision we have – that we have a guarantee that the products we send out have the quality that we say they should have in terms of food security. So from my point of view, in the blue sector, we will follow up on this in the best possible way in consultation with the Minister of Agriculture, who has the constitutional responsibility for food supervision.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e1178	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e1194	On a proposal from the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to the government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e1203	In the opinion of the Committee on the proposal for a representative which we are now considering, a joint committee stresses that public procurement must take precedence over the promotion of a serious working life. Public employees with purchasing responsibility have a large and important responsibility here, both in the state, in the counties and in the municipalities. It is also a theme that is thoroughly highlighted in the Report. St. 22 for 2018-2019, as Stortinget dealt with on 14 June this year. In Document 8:92 S for 2018–2019, proposers focus on the fact that in recent years there has also been an increasing and subsequent significant element in the rental and purchase of public welfare services. With what convergence promotes the five proposals for request decisions, as initially reflected in the Committee's position. During their proceedings in committee, the Workers' Party, on behalf of the proposers, informed that they had drawn up proposals No. 1 and 2 in the examination of document 8:92 S and instead promoted them in the context of the processing of notification. St. 22. As regards proposal No: 4 in document 8:92 S, also the last part of that proposal, i.e. to reintroduce the anti-contractor clause into the regulation on public tenders, was instead promoted in connection with the processing of notifications. St. 22. However, the majority of the Committee, consisting of government parties, have found it appropriate to comment on some of the proposals promoted in Document 8:92 S. With regard to the proposal to lower the thresholds, the Government Parties refer to Report. Article 22, where the government announces an evaluation that the thresholds have been raised. However, with the entry into force of the new legislation on 1 January 2017, the government considers that it is important that the legislation should take a while to be able to build the evaluation on an adequate basis of experience. Therefore, such an evaluation will be initiated at the earliest in the autumn of 2019. It is an approach to which the majority of the Committee subscribes. We record that the Workers' Party and SV also chose to propose an evaluation of today's thresholds for acquisitions in the Innst. 376 S for 2018-2019. The Workers' Party also promoted a proposal to establish a register of foreign service providers, using the model of the Danish RUT register. The majority would point out that Denmark has received a case against it from the European Commission because of the establishment of this register. The Commission considers that the registration requirements are too restrictive in relation to the EU rules on the free movement of services, including Article 56 of the EU Treaty and the corresponding Article 36 of the EEA Agreement. The majority indicates that Norway already has a register of foreign service providers as a result of a statutory reporting obligation to the tax authorities. The Government assesses the relevant information received under this scheme to be forwarded to the Labour Inspectorate, but has received a reasoned opinion from ESA on the current registration system to the tax authorities. The majority believe that it is wise to await the assessments that are now being made by the government regarding the collection of the registration system.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e1222	The working party fights for a safe and decent working life with all the permanent jobs and a wage to live on. We have promoted a number of proposals to ensure this, but unfortunately the majority, consisting of the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, are either unwilling to listen, or they push the problems ahead. When we listen to the workers and pass on their concerns, the right-hand side says we're black-painting, and they vote down all the proposals we're promoting. But we're not giving in. Employment and the Norwegian social model are being challenged by increasing differences in power and wages. The balance of power in the labour market, the Norwegian trust model, is under strong pressure as more and more employers organise their business in such a way that it is difficult to see pay and working conditions and to avoid the responsibility of employers. In many contexts, the employer has all the power, while the employee is pressured to accept poor conditions of employment at all. This has led to the destruction of employment in many countries, and many workers are poor even if they are in full employment. These problems are reinforced by the fact that there are always some people in the world who can make the job cheaper. In many industries, we see a ‘race to the bottom’ where workers are forced to compete with each other for increasingly poor pay and working conditions. Even workers from Eastern Europe are being displaced by even cheaper labour from outside the EEA. This is a significant challenge in Norway, which has a high wage level. In the construction industry, employers have for a long time said that they are almost forced to operate as the unprofessional, hiring cheap foreign labour rather than hiring skilled workers and offering Norwegian pay and working conditions. If not, they will lose their jobs. But now we hear stories that policies promoted by the red-green in Stortinget, with strong measures against rent, and in red-green municipalities like Oslo, with the Oslo model, provide improvements. In the proposal for a representative, we continue along the same political path, for seriousness and proper working conditions. But also today the right-hand side is voting against, as it did in the rental case. Unlike the government, we will not sit calm and look at a development that undermines Norwegian pay and working conditions. This is why we are committed to cleaning up the labour market, so that workers can gain increased safety and serious employers competitive advantage. With a better overview of who works in Norway and who provides services, it will be easier to develop more accurate responses. With that, I take up the proposals that the Workers' Party is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e1237	The representative of Arild Grande has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e1242	I refer to the setting, and I also refer to the Report. St. 22 for 2018–2019 on public procurement and its treatment. The Central Party expressed its view of this matter there, in the debate of 14 June. When we're not behind the proposals from the Workers' Party, it's not an expression that we don't think it can be good suggestions. We see that they can be something bureaucratic, but the remaining question is whether these proposals are what they're going to do to solve the problem that a person wants to solve. Several of the proposals put forward in the draft representative have been discussed and discussed earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e1249	The government has met the challenges of unprofessional work early and actively through the anti-crime strategy, which was presented for the first time in 2015 and which has since been updated several times. Particular attention has been paid here to measures to reduce the market and profit opportunities for criminals. Follow-up to public acquisitions is an important part of this work. There is a broad consensus to facilitate a working life with permanent employment in a full-time job. This is also the case in practice. About 80 pst. all workers in Norwegian working life have a permanent full-time or long part-time job. We see no increase in temporary employment. On the contrary, we see a decline. There is also agreement that rentals should not be used as part of the fixed crew. The regulatory framework has been tightened up. Recently, the government also sent out consultation proposals to strengthen the enforcement of the rental rules. There are fewer self-employed people in Norway than in most other European countries. A report on the establishment of individual enterprises among immigrants has already been prepared by the Central Statistical Office. It can be seen that there has been a slight increase in the creation of such enterprises among migrant workers from Eastern Europe. It is most common in construction. If there are cases where some try to circumvent responsibilities, the supervisory authorities may cut through, but it may also be useful to remember that being a self-employed person in itself is not a matter of concern or is not illegal. Norwegian tax authorities already have a register of foreign service providers. This contains the same type of information as the Danish RUT register. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, together with the Ministry of Finance, therefore examines whether this information can also be used for the purpose of occupational safety and health and must take account of developments in the case that the EFTA Surveillance Authority has opened up to Norway regarding this registration system, to which the rapporteur referred. The government is working on a broad basis to promote serious employment, including: through the follow-up to the Labour Crime Strategy developed with the social partners and the supervisory seats. I therefore believe that there is no reason to adopt the proposals that have now been tabled.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e1262	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e1267	In the majority's observations, and in so far as the Council of State's observations do not state whether or not a register à la RUT register is requested in Denmark. They push the process between Brussels and the Danish Government and think it is wise to wait. Clearly, the records you already have are good enough. However, one point with the RUT register is that it is a public register and that it can be a good tool for, for example: Labour supervision in the fight against social dumping. Will the Council of State propose the establishment of a RUT register once the process between Denmark and the Commission has been completed and ensure that information on foreign workers and service providers becomes available so that we can obtain better tools in the fight against social dumping?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e1274	I find it strange to ask if you want such a register, all the time you have a register that has essentially the information that the Danish RUT register has. The question we are now asking is whether it can be used for purposes other than what it was created for. This is a register under the tax authorities. The purpose is that the Labour Inspectorate should also be able to use it. There is now an EFTA case about whether you can keep the register, and we have to wait and see what EFTA says to it. If such registers are not allowed, it is difficult for us to create another type of register. But we want the Labour Inspectorate to have access to the information. That is why the departments started work to see how this can be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e1281	The Council of State itself has recently answered the Storting on written questions, pointing out that the Enforcement Directive allows countries to have registers of foreign service providers. Does the Council of State consider that those words still stand, or is the Council of State in doubt as to whether this is possible, taking into account the matter between Denmark and the Commission?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e1287	It is absolutely right that the enforcement directive does that. It is fully possible for Norway to set up a completely new register under the Labour Inspectorate for that purpose, but building up a new register also means that a not insignificant sum has to be set aside for that purpose. The question is whether, in the name of efficiency, the register already established can be used instead of creating a new one, not least for cost and other reasons. If you can use what's created, that would be the best thing for everyone. The Storting would not have to grant more money to a register where the information is already registered elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e1292	Very well known, the RUT register contains much more information than is possible from data for, for example: When you want to get information about who works, who works, for example. provides services in Norwegian construction sites. One point is that a RUT register will be public information, so that both the trade union movement and not least the Labour Inspectorate can go in and check whether the information in it is correct and can be used as a tool against social dumping. Does the Council see the need for such registers to be publicly known, so that both the trade union movement and other actors can verify the information that is there and help us to clean up?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e1299	That is why the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the Ministry of Finance are now looking at whether the register established, for a different purpose from that of the tax authorities, can also be used for the purpose of the Labour Inspectorate. There's an investigation we're doing now, and at the same time there's an ESA case about the register itself. We believe it would be appropriate for the Labour Inspectorate to use the information already registered. We see the value of it, and that's also the background that we're investigating the possibilities for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e1304	Then I would like to hear when the council sees that the work is completed, because this is not a new matter. The working party has promoted this a number of times over several years; the government has done nothing but fooling around the matter. When does the Council of State see that it is doing what is now claimed by the Council of State and opens the way for the Labour Inspectorate to access that information?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e1309	As I have said repeatedly, there is now a case against Norway about whether the tax rate may have that register. First we have to wait for this. We can create a parallel register. I think it would not be appropriate, all the time you have a register with much of the same kind of information. We will now await that process, and then we will have to see what the conclusion is there, before we may take other steps under my responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e1316	For the Centre Party, it is important to have a well-organised working life. It requires that we always know who has legal access to work in Norway, both among employees and among maritime workers. A short time ago, we discussed the issue of HMS cards in the construction sector, on a proposal from the Centre Party. The HMS card shall contain the necessary information to enable the control conditions to verify its legality in real time. I understood it when the Council of State agreed that the HMS card would include both employees and seafaring business. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e1321	The HMS card that we have today contains, for the first time, information that you also get in real time. What Stortinget suggested was that you should have a technical solution that made it possible to see it immediately when you logged into the construction site. Today you have to log on to a PC, and that's how it is a little bit more heavy, but the information is there in real time. What we said to the Storting during that treatment was that we should now determine how it can be done. The intent of the store is that you should be able to show it at login, and that you don't have to go through a PC login to see it. What is on the HMS card today is – as far as I can remember – of course the name, date of birth and the organisation number of the company for which you work. Competence is not there. It was also a discussion about it. I am a little uncertain whether an individual company is there, but the organisation number is at least on that card.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e1330	When you have the number of organisations, both companies that have employees and businesses that are sole proprietorships, i.e. maritime operators. So it's covered. I have understood, on behalf of the Centre Party, that the HMS card applies to both employees and seafaring businessmen, thus meeting the need contained in proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party, in this case. It'll be a very simple system. It does not work well today, for there is too much doubt as to whether there is correct information on that card and whether more cards have been issued. Then my question is: has this case helped the government to get the HMS card in place, and that, as I said, it will apply to both employees and seafaring business?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e1337	The card today has real-time information. To the extent that the registries are up-to-date, the card will also be up-to-date. What was the discussion in Stortinget was whether you first have to log in to a PC, or if you can see it when you enter a locked building site, for example. Some companies have it today. The HMS card is good and works. It is supervised. The Labour Inspectorate has been given the opportunity to fine if a HMS card is not available. But it's probably true, as the representative Lundtigen says, that there are also fake and false cards out there. This may be more difficult, but it is easier to control it and easier to check that the information there is correct. We have to follow up that decision as quickly as possible to see what technical solution can be put in place to make it even easier to check it than is possible today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e1344	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e1362	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the President, 5 minutes to each of the other party groups and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e1371	First, I would like to thank the Committee for its constructive and good cooperation. We have managed to work together in the comments and deliver a broadly unanimous attitude to Stortinget. Petroleum industry is important for Norway. It is an industry that has given us high incomes and provided much of the well-being we have today. But it's also an industry that's risky. Therefore, work on health, the environment and safety is so incredibly important. The size is concerned with serious safety work and has decided that Norway will be the world leader in the health, environment and safety of the petroleum industry. It is clear from the Storting's expectation that the petroleum industry will follow up the Storting's decision and that health, environmental and safety work will be top priority. In the oil industry, there is a risk of serious accidents that can have significant consequences for humans, the environment and material values. We have the Alexander Kielland accident and the Turøy accident in fresh memory. We don't want any of these accidents left. In the Riksrevision study report, it has been intended to assess whether the supervisory practices of the Petroleum Authority ensure the health, environment and safety of the offshore industry. The report covers the period 2013-2017 and is a broad review of the supervisory practices of the Petroleum Authority, inter alia. based on four in-depth studies. This concerns the follow-up of the production device Goliath, the incident on the Songa Endurance drilling rig in 2016, the events on Mongstad in 2014 and 2016 and on Nyhamna landing sites. The National Audit Office considers that the Petroleum Authority has had little impact on the safety performance of oil companies. With our high ambition to be world leaders in health, environment and safety in the offshore industry, the findings of the report of the National Audit Office were surprising and a wake-up call. The main findings of the study are: In the cases examined, the supervisory practices of the Petroleum Authority have had a limited impact on the follow-up of health, the environment and the safety of companies. Reference is made to single-pisods where the Supervisory Authority’s methodology does not contribute to the identification of serious safety challenges. The companies do not always correct regulatory deviations after supervision, nor does the Petroleum Supervision always follow well enough that deviations are corrected. Petroleum monitoring is too late to use strict reaction agents when needed, and does not adequately investigate compliance with regulations. The Petroleum Control Authority agreed to put Goliath into service without the safety oversight of the carrier. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs does not ensure the relevant governance information on the impact of peer-reviewing and does not follow-up on the proper discharge of its responsibilities in relation to ICT security. Findings show that the Petroleum Control mainly follows up events in a good way, so there is also something positive to read. The Committee has taken this report from the Riksrevisionen with the utmost seriousness. The safety of the offshore industry is a top priority. It has been important to clarify whether the supervisory practices of the Petroleum Supervision Authority have the desired impact on the safety performance of the companies. The responsibility for safety is clearly placed with the companies themselves in the petroleum industry and must be borne by them. Petroleum supervision shall carry out supervision and use available instruments to influence, monitor and ensure that such responsibilities are properly and properly exercised by companies. The Committee agrees with the Riksrevision that it is highly critical that the Petroleum Authority gave a clear signal to launch Goliath without the safety of the platform. Petroleum monitoring should have ensured that everything was in order, that what remained of activities and repairs had been carried out, before giving consent to the deployment of the platform. The Petroleum Control chose to trust the company Eni, who said everything was fine. Petroleum supervision should be particularly vigilant with regard to this Italian company, Eni, which had provided incorrect information on several occasions. One example is: Under the supervision of logistics in June 2015, the Petroleum Control found that Eni had not rectified regulatory deviations, although this was noted as carried out in Eni’s systems. This weakens the trust in the company. That's why the alarm clocks should have called. The depth study of the Songa Endurance event was also not reliable. Petroleum monitoring should have ensured that Equinor had learned from past serious incidents, and that plans and actions had been started and followed up. In 2016, Equinor’s own investigation of the incident showed that economic considerations were ahead of security considerations and that there was a contributing cause for the incident. In the context of the examination of the case, the Committee was on an inspection at the Mongstad Land Plant, and the Committee also carried out a consultation with relevant actors. At Mongstad, the Committee received a good presentation of its activities and how it is currently working systematically with HMS and security at all stages. Maintenance work in the enterprise is a high priority. Past events and near-accidents are used as learning examples and are part of the ongoing risk work. There is a concept – ‘I am safe’ – that defines the standard in the enterprise. Everyone has a responsibility for security. Management in the company sets security as the first low-threshold priority for shutting down facilities. This has produced good results, and the number of serious incidents has been reduced. During the hearing, operators, employers' associations, trade unions, the main protection officers, the Petroleum Authority and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs met at the Council of State. It was agreed that the findings in the report were serious and that this should not be the case in the industry. The safety of the petroleum industry shall be of the highest priority. They stressed the importance of the lessons learned from the events and informed about the actions and changes taken to close the discrepancies and strengthen the safety work. The representative of Equinor, Arne Sigve Nylund, said: ‘The work on strengthening safety work is continuous, we can never say that we have achieved goals. Safety is fresh and requires full attention at all times, every day.» [[...]] Although critical aspects have been identified in the report on the follow-up to the health, environment and safety of the offshore industry, the current HMS regime in the petroleum industry has very broad support. Both at Mongstad and at the hearing, it became clear that cooperation with the Petroleum Control Agency is working well. The parties are confident in each other and have developed good systems for investigating incidents and monitoring and evaluation plans. The current system and risk-based model for the follow-up to the health, environment and safety of petroleum activities is perceived as good and has contributed to the high level of safety in the industry and to the positive safety development in recent years. There is a great deal of agreement to suspend the model we have, to cooperate closely with the Petroleum Authority, and to meet the requirements and requirements that are revealed by supervision, so that trust is strengthened and not undermined. Several key areas of improvement are identified in the report, which coincides with what the Riksrevision points out in its report. A well-functioning two- and three-party cooperation is highlighted as an important prerequisite for the HMS regime in Norwegian petroleum activities. It also pointed to the important role of the protection ombudsmen. They should be better included in the work carried out prior to supervision and inspections, and better provision should be made to enable them to exercise their duties in a good and sound manner. Several suggested that Petroleum monitoring should become even clearer in its follow-up, follow up more closely on compliance with requirements, and that deviations be corrected. It was also proposed to carry out several unannounced inspections where possible. In the hearing, the Council of State said that the Petroleum Authority has received a clear feedback that they should be closer to the industry and use their entire portfolio of instruments in their supervisory follow-up. Governments also stressed the importance of closely monitoring the development of ICT and technology in the offshore sector. New technologies present new safety challenges that industry needs to address and that monitoring needs to be followed. It is positive that the Petroleum Control Authority has strengthened ICT competence. Increasing digitisation makes the petroleum industry more vulnerable to attacks as a result of advanced digital threats and vulnerabilities. Developments in this area are fast and the rate of change is high. The Committee was contacted by the board of directors of the Kielland network while we were working on this matter. The request was to discuss the possibility of carrying out a new and up-to-date investigation of the disaster in 1980. We have chosen to respond to the enquiry in our position on Stortinget because it can be related to the content of this report. The Chairman of the Committee, Dag Terje Andersen, will explain this point a little later. The purpose of the Riksrevisions’ work was to assess whether the supervisory practices of the Petroleum Authority ensure the health, environment and safety of the offshore industry. The Committee has the overall impression that supervision contributes to it. However, the Committee expects the State Council to instruct the Petroleum Authority to continue its work on the challenges outlined in the report so that supervision can play its role in a stronger and clearer way. And finally, on behalf of the committee, I will address the proposal, which contains a slight change from the vote. In the event of an incubation, the word ‘survivor’ was not included in the last indent of proposals for decisions. It shall read: ‘follow-up of the survivors and survivors’.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e1448	The representative Bente Stein Mathisen then addressed the proposal she presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e1453	Let me start by giving my full support to what the rapporteur has now explained, a largely unanimous vote. It is a very serious report we have received, as the rapporteur has explained, precisely because we have the ambition in Norway to be world leaders in health, the environment and safety. And I allow myself to say -- in the light of some of the comments made by the Workers' Party, alone or together with others, which is a minority in the Chamber -- that that is exactly what we feared about the oil price drop. That was the background for us at the time we proposed to strengthen Petroleum Control, precisely on the basis that we know that when there are savings, there is a risk that it will be cut in maintenance, and some of the matters that the rapporteur has explained to us, show that it has just happened. It's a trust-based system, and trust-based systems assume that we can trust the companies, the operators, but then they have to show that trust worth it, and that's what we've seen in the cases mentioned here: that this has not been the case. Then I'm going to make an old right-wing slogan to mine: to the right, as far as I know, it's a good tradition to say that we're going to change to keep, and in this case it's up to date. For the very purpose of this case, we agree that the HMS system we have for oversight will remain, but when someone then turns out not to be trustworthy, it is important that the Petroleum Supervision checks – and that the State Council follows it up – to a greater extent that the alleged repair has actually been carried out and, if necessary, uses sanctions to achieve it. So I'm going to draw attention to the last part of the setting, which is also unanimous, and that is the Alexander L. Kielland accident in 1980. As we dealt with this matter, we received an enquiry from the board of Kielland Network to look at the possibility of appointing an investigation commission to go deeper into the worst industrial accident and disaster in Norway's history. The group's management had met with the Kielland network and was presented with good and well-founded questions related to whether we really knew everything about the Alexander L. Kielland accident, and there was a well-founded need to know more. Originally, it was probably wanted a review commission. We have found that we will not recommend, because it is extensive, and the event is very far back in time, but we have unanimously proposed to use the opportunity we have in the National Audit Office to ask the National Audit Office to go in and look at the accident. It's very rare that the Storting uses that tool, but this is also a very special case. I would like to stress that once we have proposed this, it is of course in close cooperation with the National Audit Office – and I would also like to say in agreement with the organisations that organise the employee groups in the area in question. That is why it is now a unanimous committee that says: ‘The Court of Auditors is asked to examine how the authorities have discharge their responsibilities with regard to: – Examining and clarifying the reasons for the Alexander L. Kielland accident and whether the investigation has adequately assessed the responsibilities surrounding the accident.’;» And on the other hand, ‘– Follow-up to recommendations from the investigation work, including implementation of measures to prevent and prevent new accidents.’ And finally: ‘– Follow-up of the survivors.’ By doing so, we will have given the Riksrevision a very broad mandate, which will allow us to go deeper into and get answers to the many unanswered questions that are still living after the investigations that have taken place in the past. And we get hope that can help anyone who has experience or knows something about the accident to come up with such a way that we can get deeper insight and knowledge of what really happened during the tragedy in 1980. I'm glad that it's a unanimous committee, and I also hope a unanimous big deal, asking the National Audit Office to take that commission.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e1486	I want to start by thanking the case spokesman for a good job, a good cooperation and a constructive way to find out about it, at almost all points. Norway has for a long time had good results in terms of health, environmental and safety work in the petroleum industry. The way in which we have organised our work, and the underlying control and regulation, is all reason to be proud of. The way they are controlled is function-based and based on trust. But that doesn't mean that the oil industry has everything to do with it. No, the National Audit Office's report that we are handling here is a serious matter that is important to address. The National Audit Office has made important findings. They state that Petroleum Control does not detect serious security breaches and has little impact on the safety of its oil company. At the same time, they have not used the register they have of reaction agents when necessary. Even if the Petroleum Control in most cases does so in a good way, it is also those who feel that they are not being properly cared for. Is the Petroleum Control working well enough? It is an important question to raise, when Eni Norway got to use the Goliath platform, which was not yet in a security defence position. The supervision trusted the information they received from the company. This is particularly serious, as long as the effectiveness of supervision and control are based on full openness between companies and supervision. So what could one do? In such a case, I think one should have gone even harder to work. Companies that do not follow up well enough should have more stringent reactions as well as daily fines and closures. One has to bear in mind that openers on the base can quickly have dramatic consequences for them to add. Of course, one could have had several untapped controls, but at least on platforms it is demanding. Helicopter must be listening in any case, and it's not sure it has that effect. I think the trust-based cooperation that you have today is the way to go, but one has to be even clearer about following up and having random checks. Is what's alert back, done? It's serious when one announces that one has put things in place, without having done it. One thing that bothers me after we had the phone call is that it seems like a lot of trouble to take the job as a protection. It is dramatic if adding feels that such tasks, which are actually the most important task of securing employees, can be seen as poor for the further career of the company in which they work. There's something you need to take seriously. The central party supports the measures that the National Audit Office of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs must continue to work with, as they put it in the report and in the settings. We look forward to the follow-up of the case, which will take place in three years' time, and we hope that both the report and the management of the committee will lead to changes in the way HMS work is carried out and in the follow-up to any fractures that may occur.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e1505	Many have been said about the review by the National Audit Office of the supervisory practices and methods of the Petroleum Authority. I thought I was just going to highlight some points and go into some areas that have not been so well-lit. The safety of a single job in the petroleum sector has been made public. Storing and government have set the framework for this enterprise, where security concerns are very strict. That's the way it has to be. There is nothing to be done on the safe side, there is something to do when operating within this field – in a very vulnerable environment – both for people and for the environment in which you operate. Security must be number one. These are the requirements that are also set by the authorities. If you don't follow it, there's nothing in this industry to do. It needs to be seen at the highest level. The National Audit Office has found that the Petroleum Control Authority has been seriously lacking in its supervisory work. Very critically, both the Riksrevision and the Control Committee refer to it as, in a number of areas. The reasons for these deficiencies are many, but a direct cause is the fall in prices in the oil sector, which led to pressure on these rules, and where the Petroleum Control did not follow up, seems to be open-ended. It is also covered by the operators themselves, as Equinor in his in-depth study by one of the Songa Endurance events. It is also clear that the trust-based system has been practiced in such a way that one has believed that it would be improved and that deviations would be closed. So it hasn't happened. It's taken several years. Although the Petroleum Authority has not checked that it has actually been followed up. It has been uncovered by the operators themselves. Then we're starting to get into a little borderland of what trust actually is. Trust should not be such in a value for oversight that a person should only believe that something is going to happen, and thus not have to follow it up. A must follow this up. Some serious shortcomings in the methodology of Petroleum Control are thus identified. There has also been a number of problems associated with the use of a reaction agent, which has not been followed up by a seriously missing follow-up of the Petroleum Control Officer. One has not used the means of reaction available to the Petroleum Authority. Here, too, the Committee is behind the Riksrevision and says that one needs to get a better method, follow up effects and take the reaction agent wider into use in the past, in order to have an effect. Then there is one thing that the Committee also took into account in this work – a topicality that the Committee chose to include in consultation with the National Audit Office. That's what happened over time, associated with the accident with Alexander L. Kielland. I am very happy that we have solved it the way we have done. The fact that the Storting makes use of the possibility to ask the Riksrevision to carry out designated missions is something that the Storting does very rarely. That's the way it should be. We have a national audit that will largely determine its projects on its own. They should not be controlled by Storting – but they can be useful in special cases. This is a special case. The size can also start independent investigations, one can ask the government to do so, etc. But when the Riksrevision – which has just entered into such a case when it comes to safety associated with petroleum, which has the competence, and which is perhaps the best and most serious actor in Norway in the field of investigation – can go into the matter and check out the concerns and references that have come from among others. The Kielland network, it's very secure. I think there is a good solution to this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e1520	Petroleum activities are an important industry for Norway. It creates jobs and revenues for the Norwegian welfare society and contributes to technology development and competence. Petroleum activities have the potential for major accidents. Industry operates under natural and technological conditions, which means that faults and accidents can occur. It is also a potential for serious damage to humans, the environment and material values. Security must therefore be in the high-seat, and the government's ambition is that Norwegian petroleum activity should be the world leader in HMS. This ambition is a clear signal that the petroleum industry cannot take a high level of safety for the given product. Both the Storting and a total industry are behind this ambition. We have a high level and a positive trend over time in the health, environment and safety of petroleum activities. Statistics measuring risk, inter alia: major accidents, show a clear improvement over time, and in 2018 we had the lowest measurement historically. It shows that there is a lot of good safety work in the industry. But historical figures do not guarantee future developments. Security is as well-known as fresh. When planning for good security in the future as well, we need to take into account the trends seen in this industry. Rapid growth, continuous development and constant changes will require the industry to work continuously for continuous improvement. The Norwegian HMS regime in the petroleum sector determines that it is the establishments responsible for safety. The follow-up of the authorities is in addition to and not as a substitute for the company's follow-up of its own activities. Trust is an important prerequisite for this HMS regime. The authorities set the framework for the petroleum activity and provide companies with confidence and room for action in choosing solutions that meet the functional regulatory requirements. But this is not a blind trust – the authorities are supervising compliance by businesses at all stages of their business. In its report, the National Audit Office points to the importance of the need for the follow-up of the authorities to be adapted to the conditions and trends in industry. It appears from the report that the peer review mainly follows up events and concerns messages in a good manner, but also points to some important areas of improvement in the use of reaction agents and the follow-up of deviations by supervision. In a regime based on trust, it is therefore important to clearly recognise that non-compliance will have consequences. On the basis of the National Audit Office's report and the HMS report on the petroleum activities treated by Stortinget last summer, I have implemented a number of important follow-up actions. Petroleum monitoring shall be strengthened and clarified and shall be continuously adapted to industry developments. They have been given the task of developing their supervisory strategy in order to implement the necessary instruments at the right time, to comply with the requirements as necessary, and to close the identified deviations. Sound tripartite cooperation is an important prerequisite for the future robustness of the HMS regime. This was a topic that was thoroughly discussed in the party working group that I put down in 2016. I have asked the Petroleum Inspectorate to take the necessary steps to follow up both the HMS message and the recommendation of the National Audit Office, and the supervision is well under way with this work. Of course, I will follow up this development work in my governance dialogue in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e1550	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e1555	The Council of State was concerned with much of the same thing as we said in our remarks when dealing with the matter. The council said that trust in the companies is not a blind trust. We can well see, in the light of the examples of the Riksrevision, that it has at least been somewhat weak when it comes to following up that the companies were actually worth the trust they have, and that it has been deserved. I agree with what the Council of State said about the tripartite cooperation and the significance of it. But what emerged during the hearing was that two-party cooperation, that is, cooperation between operators and their employees, was more a challenge now than before. Knowing the way the Norwegian model works is at least fresh, because ever new companies come in, we see outsourcing and new players in the sector. That's why I could imagine asking what the Council of States is putting up to do to strengthen the knowledge of bipartisan cooperation?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e1562	Let me first agree that trust is an important prerequisite, but it's also demanding. Trust requires enormous responsibility for those who are shown it. It is quite right that good tripartite cooperation depends entirely on two-party cooperation. If you don't have good two-party cooperation, it's hard to have good tripartite cooperation. There has been a high level of conflict on the base, there is no doubt that there has been a great deal of disagreement and conflict between the parties in the petroleum industry in recent years, for a slightly different reason – there has been an industry under enormous pressure. We have even invited the parties to several party working groups, and we have invited parties to the various forums to ensure that more voices, more votes, are heard, and more objections are raised. It is true that it is becoming more international, and important that the companies operating on the base take party cooperation seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e1570	Then we agree that it is important, but then my question is: What can the Council of State contribute – possibly via the Petroleum Control, of course – to the knowledge of the way we think about HMS in the North Sea, being implemented by the new companies? During the hearing, we heard examples of trust elected representatives telling us that they actually had to teach their new employers how the Norwegian model works. If we are to get the special model to work – we are all concerned about – then my question is what the Council of State can do to ensure that new companies entering, both companies and their employees, get the necessary education in how the HMS work in the North Sea will work.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e1575	I think Goliath and Eni are a good example of other companies coming from other countries and cultures having a different relationship with party cooperation. This is written about in the paper and is no secret, and it was perhaps a surprise for the company to discover and experience the cooperation of the parties in practice. During the hearing, when we heard the opinion of the trustees from Eni, it was my impression, at least there, that the cooperation of the parties had improved considerably after the company recognised the importance of the cooperation of the parties, and that it was actually necessary to involve the employees' representatives in the work. All companies operating on a Norwegian base shall comply with Norwegian law, and party cooperation is part of Norwegian law and legislation. I assume that all the companies are involved in the law and regulation when they operate here. Oversight supervises the work on the base, and also does a job in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e1582	I want to follow up on what the representative, Dag Terje Andersen, raised with regard to the tripartite cooperation and not least the bipartite cooperation. One thing is that foreign companies like to have some challenges in understanding what we're doing, but I feel that there's a little under the fact that the relationship between the Petroleum Control and some of the companies can be so close that it gets tighter than between the companies and they add. Have the Councils considered this challenge?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e1589	If the representative now asks if I have confidence in the independence of the Petroleum Authority, I do. I see no reason to doubt it. I have full confidence that the Petroleum Authority is doing its supervisory work and its follow-up to the industry in a good way. We have a number of bodies in the petroleum sector in which the parties are represented, both the Security Forum and the Regulatory Forum, where the parties and the industry sit together with the Petroleum Authority in order to look precisely at safety, but also at different forms of regulatory design. We also have other partner-groups who look at different issues and challenges in the sector. So I feel that this is essentially a good cooperation between the parties. They're also saying now that it's getting better. I also feel that we have a good tripartite collaboration. I feel that we get good feedback on it. But this is something to work with continuously. We never have to take it for granted. This must be maintained continuously.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e1598	I have also heard – not on the phone and not on the phone, but on the phone – that taking on protective duties is actually demanding, because sometimes it feels and notices that it doesn't exactly provide a career lift in the company in retrospect. Wouldn't it be a big challenge if it were for those workers who are perhaps the best off to have such a job, actually not to do it because it could stop them in their later careers?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e1605	There is a problem that has probably not only been discussed on a two-man basis between individuals and the representative, this has also been said, as I remember, in the hearing and also publicly: that more people feel that it is difficult to take on that task. It is worrying and serious because the protection ombudsman is a very central function, not least in this sector, where caring for health, the environment and safety are so central and crucial. I believe this also appeared at the hearing, if I remember correctly. It is important that companies make it possible for trustees to do their job, that the protection officer can do his job. Of course, it is totally unsustainable if there are people who experience that they are almost being punished, that they are career-retardant, or that they do not get the framework conditions they need to do their job in a good way. It is the responsibility of the company, the employer, to facilitate good framework conditions for the trustees to take care of the job that the employer also depends on having good people to shoot.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e1616	It has been interesting to follow the lines, and many of the things I was wondering about are mentioned. The Council of State has admitted that we have a challenge here, that the criticism that has come from the Riksrevision is very legitimate, and that this is a lack of the method of supervision of the Petroleum Control – or in another way: that one has not had an adequate arm's length distance from the operators. One has a trust that has been understood so that one has not checked whether the imposes have been followed up, and one has too little set HMS sufficiently high and followed up in a proper way. In this, the role of the protection service has come up as a problematic side. At its best, the protection service and supervision have good cooperation and can discover very much, but many of my protective services are weak. What would the State Council do to strengthen the protection service of this field?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e1625	I record that the representative Knag Fylkesnes, like the previous speaker, suggests that the supervision is not independent, and that you have bonds that make you not unhindered. I strongly react to that. As far as I can remember, that is not what the Riksrevision has pointed out either. What the Riksrevision has pointed out is that the company does not comply with any regulatory requirements imposed by the supervision. It's serious. I have not realized that this is due to the fact that there is too close a link between supervision and industry. It is serious that the industry does not follow instructions. It's totally unsustainable. It goes without saying that it is worrying if the agencies that are under authority or supervision, such as the Health Authority, the County Council or the Petroleum Authority, do not follow up. I also realized that the companies that were present took that criticism very seriously. It is important that the employer provides the protection service. The protection service is important, not least in this sector, as I said in my previous answer. Now that there are signs that this is problematic for trustees, I assume that employers will take care of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e1634	I feel that neither the representative Bjørke nor the signature questions whether the supervision is independent. That's the Council of State's understanding of what we're saying. But it's obvious that one actually hasn't followed up on the orders given, that one hasn't used the means of response that one actually has, and that one has a protection service that's under pressure, especially in times when the economy of the operator companies is under pressure. So my very simple question to the Council of State is – and that was the original question: What will the Council of State do to strengthen the protection service, which is so important that we actually get high security in this sector, and which is a very decisive actor for Petroleum Supervision and Authorities, or else to ensure that we have good security on Norwegian Socket?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e1641	First, I'm glad we're getting the misunderstanding cleared up. When the representative said that impositions are not followed up because the supervision does not have enough arm's length distance, I realized that there was an indirect criticism of the independence of supervision. I'm glad we've got that misunderstanding fixed, because it would be demanding if our supervision didn't have the Storting's confidence that they're actually independent. As I say, businesses are today required to have protection services. There have been many signals at the hearing that trustees feel that it is difficult and demanding. The industry itself has registered – and I assume that they have heard after it has been said – and take over this – what to say – the concern of trustees. It is the responsibility of the employer to ensure that you have a protection service and that the protection service has a framework under which they can work. I now assume that in the dialogue with the parties it is also placed on the agenda internally, because it is not sustainable if it is that employees do not want to take on the important task in fear of reprisals or anything else.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e1650	That's the line change. The President will remind you that when you take the floor in the storeroom, you'll be quoting the President. It's also true in line chord shifts. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e1660	Today is a good day. Today we see how democracy in our country works in practice. Norway is a small country even when major accidents occur. Thus, when the country’s largest industrial accident occurs on a Norwegian base, it occurs in an industry that places health, the environment and safety as the main factor in activity. That is exactly why what is happening today is so important. Are there any questions that have not been answered? Are there any answers on which questions are asked? And did we follow up the survivors or relatives well enough and in a good way? Alexander L. Kielland platform was a workplace for many. The accident particularly hit us at home in Rogaland. In this room there are several elected representatives who have lost a friend. There's a local who got her father home. The youngest person who died in the accident was the sharksunder Erik. He had just started his working life; he was 19 years old. In Iceland, we know that there is a daughter my age who did not get her father home, but who a few years ago was told that there is a network in Norway. It's in the meeting with these people I see the importance of what we're doing today -- in the meeting with great people who were at work that day, and who say they don't recognize themselves in the conclusion that the report points to. That the work of the Control Committee on this matter is very important, I am 110 percent sure, and I thank them for a good job. As a society, we need to make sure that we have drawn the right conclusions and that we have learned. Workers going out on a Norwegian base shall know that the most important thing they do is not to fill up the oil fund, but that health, environment and safety are the most important things. In order for it to be the most important thing, we may need to learn from the mistakes that may have been made. I'll stop there I started. This is actually one of the finest days of my life as elected. I get a stronger belief in democracy and that there is a short distance between people and elected people. I am sending a special thank you to those who have taken the trip here and are sitting at the gallery.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e1673	In general, there is a high level of safety in Norwegian petroleum activities and there is broad agreement between the authorities and the parties in the industry that Norwegian petroleum activities are to be world-leading in health, environment and safety. Petroleum industries have been ahead of other industries in this area for many years. At first I thought it seemed quite hysterical when oil companies in Stavanger were early aware that one should hold the railing when one went on the stairs. Today I know that this is a symbol that the same standard must apply both on land and at sea. Last year I was on a platform for the first time and got to see this in practice. One employee said, "We can't afford not to think about safety in everything we do; one mistake can be fatal." In the elevator I saw myself in a mirror, and above my head it was written 'I am safety'. The HMS regime in Norwegian petroleum activities is based on cooperation and participation, and on accountability, respect and dialogue between the three parties: the authorities, employees and employers. This is a system that has proved effective and constructive and has contributed to the high level of safety. The petroleum industry has to go a long way to continuously improve safety and work with both preventive and long-term HMS. Security is a value choice. The study now carried out shows that the trust-based model for the follow-up of Norwegian petroleum activities poses challenges for Petroleum Supervision when the companies do not take the supervisory concerns seriously. This is serious and a warning to the industry that you need to work better with health, the environment and safety in order to keep your trust so dependent. The Minister of Labour and Social Affairs has clearly informed the Petroleum Authority of the implementation of the necessary measures and supervision has been strengthened. However, the Norwegian HMS regime in the petroleum sector clearly states that it is the establishments responsible for safety. The follow-up of the authorities is in addition to – and not as a substitute for – the follow-up of the company’s own activities. Tripartite cooperation is important, and it is referred to as the jewel itself on the Norwegian pedestal. Phil Hemmens, former chief executive of Eni, said the following after the Goliath accident: “The error was that as a group we had failed to understand how the Norwegian tripartite model works.” Health, environment and safety are at the back of those who work in the industry, and cooperation between the parties is a central part of the work and a prerequisite for success. Security must always be in the high seat, in which case all parties must assume their roles. Only in this way can a person maintain trust and protect an HMS regime that has broad support and is in the forefront of the world. Finally, as a representative from Rogaland, I will join the previous speaker and probably also the next speaker and say that I am pleased that a joint committee today says that someone will look into the Alexander L. Kielland accident. It'll mean a lot too many.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e1692	I take the floor in this case because she touches me especially, in a very personal way. This case is special to many who have not received their votes, people who did not get their father's home again from work, and others who got their father's home, but not the same father who traveled to the North Sea. In the setting currently under consideration, a co-rapporteur asks that the questions and discussions surrounding Alexander L. Kielland's accident be watched by the Riksrevision. I am unlikely to be pleased that the control committee has come to this decision. This accident is a pain in Norwegian worker history that has not grown. Most of the leftovers after the 123 people who died, as well as relatives and survivors, have many unanswered questions about the relatively closed examination that was at the time. The result of the post-accident review is not a consensus. I mean, it's not right for an open, democratic society like Norway to put a lid on this, when they touch it, they haven't got the answers that can be exaggerated. My father is one of the 89 people who survived this accident. My family has to some extent the drill features of this, and I have always been aware that many families are strongly influenced by this. All these years, ever since I was a little bit aware of what this was, I have felt a kind of quiet community with those who ask for the best of Alexander L. Kielland accident. And it's been a quiet community, because it's only since the last few years that I've experienced that my father has been told and trusted, in the way that he's needed. In childhood and youth, I have always had the impression that my father felt alone in some kind of opposition to what was the established truth about what happened at the end of March 1980. This accident took 123 lives and looked after 89 whole or partially permanently injured lives. For all these things that are agreed here today, touch, this is a huge saying. We're looking at what the Riksrevision will report on this afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e1707	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e1723	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that there be no loopholes, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e1732	I would like to start by thanking the representative Lundteg and the other representatives who have submitted this proposal. The thing we're dealing with today is expressing the great commitment to an inclusive working life that so many of us share. Permanently organised work, VTA, is an offer to people who receive disability benefits and need work in a sheltered establishment. Employees are covered by the Working Environment Act and have regular employment contracts. Persons with a developmental disability have been and are an important target group for permanent work organisation. We know that a large part of this group is without day care or work. According to NACU, more than half of the people with developmental disabilities were so-called inactive in 2017. I am pleased that a Joint Committee recognises this challenge and that it will require the allocation of new VTA sites also in the next year's state budgets. Because that's what we in the Storing set the number of VTA places. Then Nav distributes the sites to the counties, divided into the 335 crop and reforestation holdings. In the context of the treatment of the 2019 government budget, the size of VTA sites increased by 700. It was a very good decision. Still, we know that a lot of people are in line to get a VTA space. Only in my home municipality, Bergen, a waiting list of 120 people is reported. With today's pace of new places and award criteria, it will take 16 years before everyone on the waiting list gets a seat, given that no new persons are added to the list. The Labour Party therefore believes that the proposal of the Centre Party in this matter is reasonable and realistic, and I hope in particular that the Government will take note of proposal No. 3, to review the award criteria for new VTA sites. Today's proposal, as the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV stand behind, is voted down by the right side of this hall. But as an eternal optimist, I expect the government and the majority of the population to remember the commitment in this room to an inclusive working life for all. When one is in position, it happens that one votes down the opposition's proposal, but promotes themselves later, if they have something to do with it. That's my hope for the three proposals the red-green parties are behind in this case. I'll take up the three suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e1747	The representative Eigil Knutsen has addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e1752	The exposure to this group I believe is strong with everyone. I thought that one of the most fun things about being a politician is seeing how short it is from decision making is done, until it directly affects ordinary people. In the Official Journal of Bergen on 3 June, one could read that Helle Pettersen is cheering over finally getting a VTA seat in Midtun Vext AS. We see how short it is from a budget settlement to the assumption that ordinary people have a meaningful job to do. When the case spokesperson had said "outlining" up here, he gave almost the impression that the red-greens had many good suggestions. He hoped that the position would come after, but the fact is that the position does not talk about escalating plans, but actually about stepping up in practice. Going back to 2013, when the current opposition was in position, we had less than 10,000 VTA seats in Norway, while today we have 11,000 seats, and that was increased by 1,800 new ones. And we know that on Friday, the big crowd will increase further, so that even more people get the VTA places they need. I think that concrete policies and promises are better than escalation plans, as one here suggests. When we go to the proposals made by the Centre Party, the case-speaker pays special attention to point 3. The government has already come to meet this in the counties that didn't get any seats last year. For example, my home country, Hordaland, already gets places of the revised allocations. Of the 1,450 new places resulting from last year’s transfer and new allocations that will take place on Friday, Hordaland and the West will receive 154. So there's no need for point 3, because here the government already, through the directorate, has made sure that the whole country gets. I'm especially glad that one has the focus that those who can turn around quickly when we get extra funds, which we now do, are also given more places, that the growing businesses that are proactive and active are given extra places. When we get to point number 1 and 2 in the proposal, I think it's a little strange that the Center Party, which is so busy with local democracy, should have government plans and government plans for this, when we know that we have local politicians from every party that has an engagement here. It must be fully possible for local democracy to cooperate with its own citizens and see when to offer places through ownership of growth businesses. Not everything that gets solved from Oslo is going to be solved as much better than that in over 400 municipalities that we now have in Norway, with committed local politicians who have an involvement through ownership in growth businesses. So it's unnecessary to adopt these three points in order to have a good policy in the VTA area.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e1763	We have all experienced being put in a booth where we do not feel at home. I have experienced that as a woman, a politician and a four-child mother. Special people with mental retardation experience prejudices. But unlike them, it's easier for me to break free from a stamp that I feel is unfair. Many people have to fight for the right to work. Last year Erling from the North Pole Industries gave a speech outside the Stortinget that focused on inclusion, diversity and the importance of having a job. The goal was more permanent job placements. Erling spoke about the importance of work, the importance of community and the importance of mastering. We need several such arenas for mastering. As a result, the government has invested in an increase in VTA seats, while encouraging more ordinary employers to take in people with disabilities. Employers are an important part of inclusion and we need employers who see the value of inclusion. For the Right, inclusion virtue is one of our most important projects. The resources are often hidden in the individual, and through activity and mastering they appear in places you might not have thought. That's what the value of work is. But we're going to do more, because we haven't gotten far enough to include more. We still need more VTA sites, and we need closer cooperation between growth companies and ordinary businesses. Good follow-up is also important to prevent people from falling out of the system. In particular, it is important that the sites are used correctly and that VTA sites are prioritised for people with developmental disabilities. Since 2013, the government has increased the number of VTA sites from 9 200 to 11,000. In addition, the means of more follow-up have increased. This is an important bet. Nav shall continuously assess the distribution model for the allocation of VTA sites to the counties and adjust it as necessary, as was done when Westland, Troms and Finnmark were recently allocated additional sites. VTA is a continuous development scheme, and the right sees it as not appropriate to use administrative resources for new investigations and guidelines now. The questions raised by the proposers are already subject to ongoing dialogue and assessments, and the government has been aware of the need to strengthen the VTA system in the Granavolden platform. What we need now is more employers joining this workforce, because it is not the politicians and the hub that lower the thresholds in the labour market, and that employs them – it is the employers who do. We have good times in Norway now, and we have to use these times to include as many as we can in the world of work. We're going to continue the historical effort on permanent work, and we're going to invite more employers on to the team.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e1778	I would like to thank Mr Eigil Knutsen from the Workers' Party for the work that has been done. When the proposal is promoted from the Central Party, it's because it's a question that needs to be solved, it's a problem, it's something that many people are concerned about, it's something that doesn't work, it's something that needs to be improved. In addition to VTA, permanent work, which is within certain enterprises, we also have the VTO, permanently organised work in ordinary activities. The center party is concerned that we're going to use both schemes, sail if only VTA is mentioned here. It is a time-limited scheme; it is a scheme for a target group that receives or is expected to receive disability benefits. There is a great queue, and there is a need for a seamless transition for the many, from high school to VTA or VTO. It is a fact that the proportion of mentally retarded people without work or daily services has increased from about 10 pst. in 2012 to well over 50 pst. in 2017. It affects many people, and it affects many relatives. In response from the Council of State – that was the background to the proposal for document 8 – we learn that there is no clear way of registering what is needed in the case. We have therefore made the three proposals, and I have to say it is quite clear that, once again, the government parties cannot participate in any of the three proposals – once again, they cannot participate in any of the three proposals. I dare say that if the Christian People's Party had not been part of the government apparatus, we would have had a majority for at least some of the proposals, because that is reasonable, sober and cautious proposals. But the government's representatives are working hard not to be involved in any of the things that come from the opposition. It reminds me of Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen in his day of well-being, and there's nothing special to brag about. We're not going to get the national overview. Government parties say that there is no appropriate procedure, and there is no need to clarify the legislation. However, the government parties have introduced requirements for reporting waiting lists for hospitals – it is probably just as difficult. This is an important matter, and I hope that the labour market companies will follow up the case so that the government parties will continue to do a better job for the many people who really need an offer of VTA or VTO, so that they can have a job to go to every day.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e1793	VTA workplaces are perhaps the most colorful part of Norwegian working life and they are the most exciting, fun and rewarding jobs to visit. It's a very good suggestion the Center Party has come along. It clearly shows what should be put in place in today's situation in the system of permanent job creation. This is clearly a potential for making it easier, with a seamless transition between school and permanent work for some of the candidates in the scheme. The plural shows in the setting that we're already opening doors with the suggestions we're making. I think the argument they're using, to some extent, shows a reluctance to make an effort to make the scheme work best, and perhaps hacked better than it does today. It should always be a goal to achieve the best possible working order. Therefore, I find it disappointing that the government party will not facilitate a seamless transition for those who are ready candidates for permanent work without too long waiting and bureaucracy around it. It is disappointing that the government will not put in a small extra effort to provide a national overview of the need for sustainable job creation, and thus also the need for new VTA sites. There have now been added to the table many new VTA places, and that's good, SV is happy with it. But today it's rather unclear what the need is, where there are long waiting lists, and therefore also where we should and can all put in an effort to influence where it should be sought to create new places.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e1804	Durable work is a customised offer for people who receive disability benefits and need work in a sheltered establishment. It is often a highlight to visit these workplaces on my municipal visits around Norway — from Kapro in Karasjok to Solstein in Karmøy. There are jobs, satisfaction, useful activities and production and many great people and good friends there. The offer is also given to persons in need of organisation who are expected to be granted disability benefit in the near future. Participants in permanent work are ordinary workers under the Working Environment Act, subject to contract of employment. Work may qualify for work in ordinary activities, but many remain in the VTA enterprise throughout their working life, because the action is time-limited, unlike other measures. For the Christian People's Party, VTA is an important part of the fight against alienation, by including more people in the social community that the workplace represents, and thus getting good daily routines. It is a good system that has opened up work to people who have been outside, not least many people with developmental disabilities and those with mental or other health problems. On a national basis, there are about 335 growth and reintroduction holdings with VTA sites. The size increased the number of VTA sites by 700 in the context of the treatment of the 2019 government budget. It supports the fact that permanent work has been a priority task for this government over repeated government budgets and that the allocations to VTA sites are now on a historically high level. In this government's time, the number has increased by 1,800, and the level now becomes about 11,000 places. In the Granavolden platform, the government has also expressed ambitions to strengthen the VTA scheme and increase the number of places. The Christian People's Party believes that VTA is a system that is working well and continuously to further develop today, and that it is therefore inappropriate to use resources on new investigations and guidelines now. The issues related to VTA are not only about the number of places but also about the correct use of places. It's more to deal with, and the Christian People's Party is impatient. Half of the people with a developmental disability are not registered with work or activity, neither with daily services, in labour market enterprises or in education. Persons with developmental disabilities are almost entirely outside the ordinary labour market. In addition, they are marginalised and can often be said to be on the edge of the sheltered labour market as well. This means that there are not only the number of VTA sites that are important for people with developmental disabilities to have an offer of work or activity, but that these are prioritised when VTA sites are granted. The Christian People's Party therefore wants to strengthen more jobs in the ordinary working life, so-called VTO places. This concerns the principle of human dignity in our important equivalency reform. I can assure the Central Party that the Christian People's Party is an impatient driver in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e1831	The government sees permanent work as a good system that has opened up the working life of people who have been outside. Many participants have been brought out of isolation and into a work community. In particular, this concerns many people with developmental disabilities and those with mental health problems. To the proposal to draw up a national overview of the need for VTA sites as a basis for a national escalation plan, my assessment is that it would be a very demanding task to provide a good national overview of the need for VTA sites. There is no clearly defined target group for VTA based on objective criteria. The target group is currently defined in the regulation. The definition in the Regulation is based on a mixture of objective criteria and discretionary criteria. The conditions laid down in the Regulation are designed for the assessment of specific applicants, not the numerical fixation of the target population as a whole. Based on a waiting list overview, it is unlikely that it will be a good way to estimate the need. The number of applications made depends, inter alia, on: of the availability of seats at each Nav office and will therefore reflect conditions other than real needs. The proposers want the government to develop models to ensure a seamless transition from high school to VTA. Other solutions must always be carefully considered before any decision on disability and place in VTA is taken. This means that a rapid transition from higher education to VTA is not necessarily a good solution. The proposers are asked by the government to review the award criteria for VTA sites between the districts. The government believes it is very important to ensure a fair distribution of VTA sites. This should be done through award criteria which are as objective as possible and which ensure predictability. The responsibility for the distribution of VTA sites lies in the Directorate. In recent years, the Directorate has used a model based on the number of disabled persons under 40 years of age. Based on this model, we've seen that there's a certain distribution of funds. The allocation of new sites is therefore aimed at reducing this bias. I believe that the number of disabled people under 40 years of age seems to be a reasonable starting point. Analyses show that this group’s diagnosis coincides with VTA participants to a greater extent than older disabled people. Finally, I would like to remind you that this government has implemented a very significant investment in VTA. Since accession, the number of spaces increased by about 1,800 on an annual basis. Never before have so many been offered VTA space as now, but it has also been a right and necessary priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e1851	The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e1856	A meaningful everyday life is important to people, and a work to go to is for most of us a part of what makes life meaningful. That's what it's like for me, and that's what it's like for those I've met who work in important growth companies, and who need extra follow-up. One of these growing businesses is Wev-Al-Plast in Saltdal. It is a modern, wide-ranging production enterprise in plastics, aluminium, wood and textiles. Here you can get e.g. road signs, boundary signs, emergency docks or work clothes. They are innovative and find new areas to offer products. The owners are municipality, county municipality and the Diakoni Foundation of North Norway. The company gives people who work there opportunities, and they do it without taking a penny in dividends from the company. All income is ploughed back to give good working days to those who work there. However, this company has not been given any new permanent job placements – VTA sites – although there is a need for more places. All VTA sites in that municipality are converted sites that were created in connection with the time when Vensmoen was a central institution for mental retardation. The places that are there, of course, are used by the people who remained in the municipality after the HVPU reform, that is. after the closure of the central institution. It's really great that we have those places, but I think when it's calculated in terms of the number of people under 40, it's not right that these VTA places, which were once known as PU places, are counted into it. There are places that are already occupied, in another system, and it comes from the fact that very many of those who used to be at the central institution became residents in the municipality. This gave rise to a much greater need for special jobs in such municipalities. I see that, for example, Nordland only got 14 of the new places, and I think that's going to be very low given the story that makes more such spaces needed in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e1867	Many people are waiting today for a permanent job offer. There is no national overview of the number of people waiting in place, and so accumulation and government has no overview of the real need for VTA places in the coming years. The government party says they don't want this either. It is claimed that a national overview of the need for VTA sites is not an appropriate procedure. It's probably for the government this isn't appropriate, because then they'll know what the real need is. The fact that it is difficult to estimate the need because the criteria are not clear is a bad argument, for the same government has introduced a national overview of the number of people who have been granted medical treatment. It should not be more difficult to achieve this when it comes to waiting lists in VTA space – whether it is political will. A national overview is not a target in itself, but a tool for setting targets for a stepping-up plan. It must be a goal for people in need of permanent work to achieve this. Also, the government party will not guarantee a seamless transition from continuing school to VTA. The reason for this is that a group must not be confused, and it is not good for automatic transitions from further education to VTA. It's turning the problem upside down. It is to accept that young people have to wait for years after continuing school to have a job to go to, and to ignore the knowledge we have today about the transition from school to work for people with developmental disabilities. The government also does not see the need to change the allocation criteria. At present, allocation criteria are not based on waiting lists or real needs, but the number of people under 40 years of age. When the government argues against a national list of needs because this is not a clearly defined target group, they argue the opposite when they go towards changing the award criteria, because they are precisely based on the fact that this should be a clearly defined target group and have as their main criterion that it is less than 40 years old. But it does not say all about the need, and so we have long waiting lists, for example. in Bergen, even if the criterion says this should be quite right. I'm hearing the council say that never so many have been assigned VTA space. That's to argue how I do to my kids when we're going to run a very long drive. When they ask us how long we have left after a short time, I answer that we never have our closer goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e1880	I am pleased with the inter-political commitment of the VTA regime in the Chamber today. It would have dressed the opposition better to recognize the exposure that now exists for VTA in the position – the increase that has been in the number of VTA places with this government. There has been a historically strong investment in VTA during our reign. The representative, Lundtigen, expresses indignation that the government is not involved in any of the proposals. This is not due to a cash rejection of all the opposition had to come along, but that we actually believe the proposals are wrong medicine. It is also well described in our comments on the matter. In the case of a national survey of VTA sites, it is very difficult, as the Council of State stated, to provide an overview of them, because there is no clearly defined target group. It is a fear that making more rigid intake criteria for the VTA system could quickly make it more difficult to make judgemental judgements and give individual treatment to people. Nor has it been given that it is best to have a seamless transition from high school to VTA in all cases. It should always be such that other solutions are carefully considered before decisions on disability and place in VTA are taken. In order to introduce a greater degree of seamlessness, it is a fear that some diagnostic groups can be distributed. Although it might be true for some diagnostic groups, it's not an automatic way to have disability and VTA because you have some kind of challenge in life. Therefore, we believe that it still needs to be based on judgemental considerations, but that there is much to do – as also described in our remarks – for example. to improve communication between Nav and County. Finally, the distribution model is something that is constantly being worked on today. We believe it is not appropriate now to use new resources for investigations and guidelines when there is something you work well with today. It's quite fine to have a great deal of faith in the excellence of your party, but it's not that when we vote against the proposal of the Central Party, it's because we really want to vote with the representative Lundtigen, but vote against principle. In fact, we sometimes disagree with the proposals being made, but I understand that the representative Lundtegegen, with his reference to Schjøtt-Pedersen, might have another experience when he was in position.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e1895	Unfortunately, it has become a principle in this Chamber that the government parties vote – without exception – for what they are told from the government offices, and that is what I point out. The centre party is pleased that there have been several locations, both VTA and VTO. Former State Council Norman from the Right, who was director of the ASVL, the National Association of Workers, has done a glittering job. Now the staf stick is left to the former town council Geir Lippestad, which I also have great expectations of will follow up and do a very good job. I'm glad that the Christian People's Party is an impatient driver, I'm happy for what's done. I can underline that – with two lines. The government introduces requirements for reporting waiting lists for sick leave. It's not easy to define who is entitled to a sick home, because the life situation of those who are involved in this is quite different. That's what the government demands. But going into this is very demanding. It's about not having objective criteria, and then maybe you should have a few more objective criteria. It is a matter of assessing concrete issues – yes, it is a matter of assessing concrete issues. And it's said that current applicants are dependent on access to seats at the individual Nav office – what kind of argument is that? If there's a few places, isn't there any sense standing in line? Yeah, yeah, that's a way to say it, too. There's a lot of things that don't hang on here, and it's not about making difficult and rigid rules; it's about getting a more clarifying system. Of course, there is a common sense; there are borderline cases that you have to deal with. It's said that you can't have a seamless transition because it's not always a good solution. No, but in many cases it's the obvious solution, and then you should have a seamless transition. And just looking at the number of disabled people under 40 years of age and not looking at the queues is a weakness. The center party wants to get a better basis for doing a better job. We hope that ASVL will take the matter further. It's clear that we need a grassroots exposure to push forward a national overview and get a seamless transition for them.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e1908	I am glad that the Christian People's Party has a great heart for human dignity and lastingly organized jobs as a result. I also see that in Nordland Christian People's Party representatives are committed to finding good solutions that benefit the growth companies and the people who find meaningful work there. This desire for a seamless transition from high school to VTA is very important for the young people concerned. The point in this case is not at all to get many into permanent job placements, but for some young people it is only permanent job placements that are concerned. This is understood by the parties long before these relatively few, young students finish high school. Today, it is the municipalities that have to take the challenge of finding a solution and a meaningful everyday life for young people who should clearly have a VTA place, and this place does not exist today for many of these young people. That's why this is an important proposal, and I hope we can make progress in the development of multiple VTA sites.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e1917	Of course, the centre party is pleased with the efforts that have been made in recent years. We demand a plan from the government because this is actually a government responsibility – so that we can build places in line with the need, so that no more goes for years and waits for a job. The number of people who have used this argument to get an overview as a basis for such an escalation plan is that it is a target group that is difficult to define. But it's not hard for the municipalities. It is not difficult for the municipality of Bergen to know how many people they have on the waiting list. That number exists today. It's just that the government doesn't really want to know. That's what our criticism is. Why does the government not want to know about the need? Is it because you don't want to be emulated on it, or what is it? Actually, I can't understand it. It is not that this is a target group that is harder to define than, for example: those who are going to have a sick home place. When it comes to those who are going to have a sick place, we can really talk about it being a target group that is hard to define. But that's where we're going to have a national overview. In fact, the Progress Party has one of its proponents. But when it comes to these, the Progress Party should not have it. Then it's a pointless suggestion. Actually, I can't understand that. So to the argument that a non-allocation criterion should be changed. Then it's a pleasure that there's a norm that depends on the number of disabled people who have less than 40 years. But once again to hospitals: there is also a norm, a goal, that one should have 25 pst. coverage in health care centres for the number of older people over 80 years of age. But a user doesn't use this as an allocation criterion for hospitals. It has one as a norm, but it's the need that determines it. It is the municipalities that signal and assess the need. For VTA slots, however, a concrete measure should be taken for the number of under 40 years of age. That's what makes this going so crazy, and there's going to be long waiting lists in many municipalities. It is not the case that the matter has been resolved, as the representative Njåstad says, because the Council of State writes in the annex to the setting that it sees no reason to ask the Directorate to change the distribution model. We have here hopes for the labour and welfare movement, which, according to the Council of State, is to follow developments closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e1928	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e1944	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e1953	I would like to start by thanking the Committee on constructive cooperation, even if the vote is not unanimous. Nevertheless, I would like to take the opportunity to stress the consensus that is actually linked to the fact that sea-based, floating sea winds offer great opportunities for the industrial nation of Norway and that sea winds must and must be developed. There is no doubt or disagreement that offshore wind power is available on a wide range of opportunities for Norwegian companies, with the experience already gained by industry from floating installations at sea, our shipping, the shipbuilding industry and renewable energy. In addition to sea wind investment, we will be able to maintain and create new jobs and give a boost to Norwegian industry and technology. In particular, we will be able to help achieve Norwegian emission targets if we use the production to electrify Norwegian base. In total, Norway emits 53 million. tonnes of CO2 in the year. The oil industry accounts for about 13 million. tonnes, or about 28 pst. of the total Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions, mainly through the operation of the 162 gas turbines on the Norwegian base. Electrification here will contribute to massive emissions cuts in new renewable energy, and there should therefore perhaps be commitments to electrification of the cap for the development of liquid sea wind. Yesterday the news came that the Ministry of Oil and Energy will now propose to open Utsira North outside of Rogaland for wind power. In addition, the Ministry will ask for input into the Southern North Sea II area, and that is something I believe that an overall committee has no problem standing behind and applauding. At the same time, the potential is greater, and there should be room for opening up even more areas for offshore wind power generation, so that we can bring prices down and more players into the field – not to say at sea. The cost of renewable energy continues to decline globally. It's the wind and the sun that are the drivers. Wind, however, is not just wind. The development of wind on land can have many negative consequences, and the debate in this country has recently shown this. But sea wind is not just sea wind either. Sea wind is likely to be a better suited energy production method than land-based because conflicts are likely to be fewer and less controversial. But there are also two types of sea wind. That's where the mills are stuck at the bottom, and it's sea wind that we're going to debate today: floating systems in deep-water areas, i.e. 40 meters and deeper. This is where Norway has its chance. Nevertheless, the cost is still too high, currently much higher than for bottom-solid wind power, and in itself twice as high as for land-solid wind power. Both parts are built on a large scale around us. Therefore, it is essential that we manage to reduce costs through an efficient value chain and reduce installation and service costs. This could contribute to a strategy, and it would have been desirable if the government parties supported us in that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e1966	Norway has large sea areas. Therefore, much of Norwegian industrial development has been built on marine resources. It started with trade between countries and with fishing. So oil, aquaculture and gas came in, and soon we might also have a mineral nourishment on the seabed. We've also had plenty of wind and water, the last one is an amazing gift of God that has given us enormous opportunities to expand hydropower, which in turn has led to our industry being able to produce its products on green energy. We have some installations with wind on land, but the interventions in nature contribute to great commitment, and it is important that local anchoring in this matter, as we see it. But the competence of the sea through maritime nutrition and oil and gas industries gives us a good advantage of a large-scale sea wind deployment in Norway. We have skills, technology, equipment and processes that can be adapted to a new investment. But we're not the only nation that wants to get such bets, and there's no reason Norway should lose the race that there's any reason to win. Equinor is now planning to develop and operate one of the world’s largest wind farms outside the Canary Islands, an investment of about 8.43 billion. kr. Why there and not here? We in the Workers' Party would like to see just that kind of investment come here. Then to the proposal itself. We have asked the government to open up several areas of offshore wind power so that Norway could become a major producer of renewable energy built up by skilled operators throughout the value chain. It is important for Norwegian industry to be able to develop further in this home area, and it is therefore gratifying to see that the Council of State would not come completely empty-handed here to the Stortinget today when we were going to deal with this matter. We are pleased with what has come from signals, but we have greater ambitions and believe it should be done much more and at a faster pace. That is why we have asked the government to take the initiative in North Sea cooperation to develop a long-term management plan for sea wind for exports to Europe. We want Norwegian base to have a capacity of 3 GWh by 2030, we want to set a target for Norway to have 10 pst. market share of global sales in the marine wind market, and we believe that sea wind can be a major contributor to replacing gas turbines and reducing emissions on the base. We believe there is a need for a more offensive national sea wind strategy, more offensive than the government put forward, so that the large-scale bet becomes not just a wet dream, but a new bet where we take the lead. I include our proposals in the matter and I refer to the fact that we should not be included in proposal No. 6, as in the case of an incurrency, is in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e1981	Then the representative Else May Botten Norderhus addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e1986	It's not long since we had an interpellant debate here in the Marine Winds Storing, and this is how the theme was quite well lit by several holders a short time ago. That sea wind can become an exciting industrial venture for Norway, I believe most people here in the hall can only about, and not just the mills, but the industry around the mills is also of interest. It concerns maritime operations, maritime equipment, service and maintenance, the development of material quality and the technological development of robots, both above and below water. It's about cable technology and boarding and green maritime shipping – in short, all that we have dedicated to us through our maritime history of knowledge and competence can be useful in this area. In this way, the proposers have broad connections to the theme they're taking up here. However, when one is now well aware of the ongoing work being done by the government, the initiative is a little bit to wonder about. That's because we've already signaled opening of the area; we have a North Sea cooperation where sea wind is included. Determining the level of sea-winding by commercial operators is a requirement of the government, and setting the level of export share by commercial operators should also not be done by Stortinget. We are also working with the oil and gas industry and helping to benefit from sea wind in front of gas turbines, as we are doing at Tampen, and we are working to facilitate Norwegian maritime energy technology through GCEs, NCEs and research programmes and to support them under clusters, etc. All of this is an action that one of the requests is to be launched. And we're already running. And I also want to warn against throwing blues in the eye of those who are now going in the breeze towards wind power on land, where one can get the impression that floating sea winds will be the answer. Liquid sea winds will be even more expensive than conventional current produced by wind on land for a while. But we're in common with the proposers that a place has to start, and the exciting thing now is to see these technologies up against energy clusters offshore, which can eventually supply ships in transit with renewable energy. That floating sea wind can now play a role in the production of electricity, or for that part of hydrogen or ammonia, is exciting to think about. I've done well in what way the government is already working on the proposals that are discussed in this Document 8, and so we don't see any need to explain what is already being worked on. Having said that, I am pleased that there is so much political consensus about the threat that the Norwegian supplier industry can once again cope with the transition to a new, exciting industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2001	Should the representative make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2006	Yes, I accept proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2011	The representative, Liv Kari Eskeland, then mentioned the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2016	Sea wind has become a very topical issue, giving us many opportunities in renewable energy sources. It is highly topical worldwide to replace fossil energy sources with renewables today, and we see that changes are taking place quickly. Renewable energy projects have fallen sharply in value, and we see that the same thing is happening on sea winds. That is why the government has also invested in sea wind. We've both been betting, we're betting, and we're going to facilitate a bet on this in the future. Then I understand that the Workers' Party and the proposers need a greater ownership of this matter. I note that there is a concern from the Labour Party that the government has no concrete objectives, and that it concerns the proposers that the government will not follow up on the great ambition of the proposers either. So they're so eager to tell them how good they're going to be, that they're promoting a proposal to produce 100 TWh by 2030 – no matter who needs or costs, no matter who's going to buy this power, who's going to use the power, or at least who's going to pay this power. This is probably just a new example of the new Workers' Party, when they are today fighting with the Greens' Environment Party to promote completely unprofessional proposals. Marine wind can mean great opportunities for a technology development that can lead to new corporate adventures, and we have a value chain that can realize these opportunities. Yesterday the government promoted proposals to open the Utsira North, an area that is very well suited for liquid wind power. In addition, one will identify the interest of Southern North Sea II, an area that can also be very topical to connect to the energy system on the continent. In the past, the government has put forward a strategy to bet on sea wind, with the aim of becoming a leader in the field and increasing our exports of goods and services. Norway has a supplier industry with world-leading knowledge and competence in this field. Now we're facilitating the whole value chain of active participation in the field.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2029	If you look at the globe, you see a sea, and you see the population concentration, if you look at where the cities are and you know where the industry is. Then there's a potential in sea wind. Wind power on land and ground-bound sea winds near land can be very conflicty. We've seen a lot of examples of that. We are talking about nature degradation, fishing, bird migration, etc. Sea winds further away from countries, however, have enormous potential and are considerably less conflictable. SV has long pointed to the Norwegian maritime industry as an important arrow in the green shift we are going through – which we have to go through. That's an important part of what we in SV call our green, new deal. It is very short distance from offshore oil and gas technology to offshore liquid wind. We see that from the companies involved. We have long seen that the marine industries have wanted initiatives, and they have taken many of their own initiatives towards sea-winding. Several speakers have already pointed this out. They have pointed to the Equinors Hywind Scotland project as an example of Norwegian business investment, where one has a test plant with five turbines of 6 MW each. It is time that Stortinget's broad agreement on Norwegian seawinding is now put into practice and brought to life. With floating sea wind systems, we're kind of getting a double win – probably even a triple win, a kind of cheek egg. Firstly, sea wind has a significant potential to contribute to emissions reduction, including: by electrification of the socket – and to other needs. Secondly, it will be a fantastic springboard and an exhibition window for the advanced maritime industry and important export opportunities in the necessary shift. And third, hydrogen can be produced through electrolysis for stable delivery to platforms, boats and other – incredibly interesting. The Committee further points out that industry actors have analysed how growth potential can be realised. The entire Committee also refers to Norwegian Energy Partners, which through this cooperation has published a report. I have read that report, and it turns out that there are as many as maybe 250 Norwegian companies that might be interesting in a supplier industry. The Busherud bench recently met with the TechnipFMC in Kongsberg. The Norwegian department of this company has its head office in Kongsberg, and they could tell about an incredible progress in floating sea winds. I'm going to come back to the argumentation there, but it turns out that costs are now dangerous – i.e. pleasant — approaching the cost of bottom-up, and even land-remaining.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2045	There are great opportunities in sea winds that many people have pointed to in their posts. It is also the case that we should press the gas and the brake at the same time to ensure that it will be a good future management of our marine areas, and also use renewable energy. Our most important task here at Stortinget is to regulate. It is regulating the sea areas, to which the Council of State and Government have now taken the initiative, in the north of Utsira and in the south of the North Sea. Both parts are very good. It is also possible to provide tools to enable industry to create and participate in the new markets. Then there's also international cooperation. Some of the possibilities created are because the CO 2 taxes start to work. That's one part of it. The second is that new technologies are being created that reduce costs. It's not exactly windless on land for the time being. Nor should we be naive and think that it will be completely without noise to use windmill technology at sea. These are major fishing interests, among others: which will be affected. We will learn from the level of conflict that we have seen partly on land, and include it in the image and development of sea winds. We also have to discuss which markets. In Norway, we have good renewable energy on land today. That's why there's also an interesting discussion where production is going to be used. Streams to the continent are obviously interesting, and so international cooperation is very important. As the representative of Nävra was involved, carbon capture and storage are an option and also hydrogen production. However, to lead very much to countries in Norway we should not spend time on. After all, a small call for the Workers' Party will be to develop a new system of exploration fusion, perhaps a system for creating a new industrial policy. We do not need 100 TWh on land in Norway. It is very surprising that the Workers' Party joined the Greens' proposals on this. It bears witness to a slight desperation. Then we must also discuss types of sea wind. It has not been given that the liquid sea wind in the form that Equinor discusses it is the one that becomes the tone-indicator. In the summer, Makani will test the airborne wind in Norway because we have arranged for a test centre in Norway. It can also be a promising technology.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2061	Equinor rates on the world’s largest floating sea wind project off the coast of Spain — not off the Norwegian coast. These include: because we have a government that spends and that follows the ideal of the passive state in business policy. We know that the Norwegian shipyard industry is the world leader in building large installations that float on the sea. This is very good news for the transition we need – away from an oil-dependent industry and beyond to a more climate-friendly industry. Such a conversion must be based on the knowledge, competence and experience of professionals in today's supplier industry. That is the background to the proposal that Mr Redt has put forward, on the issue of the use of liquid sea winds, in the proposal for a new industrial revolution, which will be discussed here tomorrow in the Stortinge. In order to cut our emissions, we must also gradually, we know, end with fossil energy use in Norway. Energy saving can take a part away, as can the upgrading of existing hydropower plants, but it will not cover the whole need. We need more renewable energy. In order to avoid major natural interference and to avoid loss of pristine nature, it is therefore important to develop liquid sea winds in Norway. Norway should become a major power in liquid sea winds – not by producing huge amounts of electricity on Norwegian soil, but by building enough to make us good at technology and on operation. Rather than exporting the electricity as a raw material, we should strengthen the supply industry and the yard industry so that they can export components and technology to build liquid sea winds in other countries as well. The green shift cannot be imported via electricity from neighbouring countries or exported via electricity to other countries. Norwegian electricity exports are 0.3 pst. of energy consumption in Europe. All countries need to find their model to build emission-free energy production. Rather than continuing to be a commodity exporter, Norway should use the pure power as a competitive advantage, which strengthens and builds the Norwegian mainland industry. It is good that the Workers' Party will bet on sea wind, but it is a mistake to connect such a bet with more power exports. It means investing in the yard industry while kicking the legs under large parts of the mainland industry. Increased power exports are a threat to Norwegian industry. The income from the Norwegian industry is vastly higher than the potential income from some additional windmills on the Norwegian base. With that, I take up Red's proposal on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2078	The representative of the Bears Moxnes has then taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2083	I am happy to be able to discuss again the great opportunities that exist in the wind power of the sea. Then I would also like to express my satisfaction at the consensus that I perceive that many representatives express from the pulpit, about the potential here. I announced yesterday that during the next few days, I would like to put forward a proposal to open up areas for concession applications for renewable energy at sea. Here the Government proposes to open the utsira north off the coast of Rogaland. This area is suitable for liquid wind power, which is the technology to which it attaches itself most to the expectations of the North. Then I ask for input on whether we should also open the area of Southern North Sea II, which is close to our border with Denmark. It may therefore be well suited for connection to the energy system on which the continent relies. As part of the consultation, I would like to propose a regulation to the Marine Energy Act. The regulation will specify the concession process itself. The debate on land wind power has strengthened my belief that we need to take good care of the practices we have, with good processes, before being allowed to expand new power generation. I see from the Workers' Party's many proposals that there is a great hurry to expand renewable power generation at sea. I believe that we should gain experience from the first opening before moving on to new areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2094	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2099	I want to address what the Right Representative said in his post and ask the Council of State what he intends to do with it. I got the impression that in the case of North Sea cooperation, there is no point in making any suggestions, because there is an overview and control of this. When we work on wind power on land, there's a lot of commitment around it because it challenges nature. It's not like there's no conflict with the wind power at sea, so I want to know what the Council of State is doing to find good solutions and good driving rules between the different industries, and how fast you're working on getting that kind of race in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2106	All first: in the areas currently proposed open or sent out for consultation for opening, a thorough effort has been made to identify interests, etc. But it is also the case that we are participating in the existing North Sea cooperation today, and here it is useful for us to be involved, even though Norway with its renewable power supply does not have the same starting point as the other countries participating in this forum and cooperation. A work programme is now being negotiated for the next three years, and we will assess our participation in this cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2111	Then the matter is very straightforward for me. Right says we have control of this, so the Council of State says that there's been a basic screening, there's been a hearing, but what the government's policy is, no one gets to know. Then I wonder, what is the government's policy to facilitate this? Because that's what's needed, and it's not in place. The next thing I want to ask the Council of State is, we've got input from the Federation of Shipowners on whether we can't create a national strategy for sea winds. Then I think that if I ask that question, the Council of State answers that it has already done so. But why does the Shipowner's Association come to the Storting in this matter and say that you have to do that? It must mean that they're not very satisfied with that strategy. Does the government intend to sharpen the pencil and bring some new grip in view of the national bet that is actually needed in Norway today?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2118	I refer to that government, among others. in the context of the 2018 State Budget on Sea Wind and Marine Wind Strategy. So the government has done a lot in this area. I point out that sea wind is one of the areas of energy21. It is our national strategy for research, development and commercialisation of climate-friendly energy technologies. Internationalisation is supported, and both Norwegian Energy Partners and other actors are important instruments in this way. So it's not that we've suddenly come to realize that this is important. We see possibilities. This has been working for a long time. Then we now open up areas for offshore wind power also off our coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2123	The government has done a lot, but you have to look a long time for the concrete, to put it that way – it might be a simple summary of what has been said here. In order to clarify this, I can ask the Council of State: what does the Council of State do to facilitate the possible export of the type of force that is then being created in the new area, which is now being opened up? And possibly, how do you look at finding concrete solutions for electrification of the base? It's not like it blows all the time, but it's quite possible to use wind power when it blows and gas turbines when it doesn't. How does the Council of State work to facilitate this?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2130	The areas that we are proposing here are areas that provide a significant opportunity to produce power. We open up the areas so that commercial companies can apply for a concession based on the needs these companies want to meet, based on the business models they point to. What the government is doing is that it facilitates a sea wind production where power can be used against Norwegian industry in Norway, and then we ask for input in the area in which I pointed, which is closest to Europe, where there will be the possibility of sea wind that can also give power that is then sold to Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2136	Bottom wind power, as we see outside Denmark and the United Kingdom, is about twice as expensive as land-based wind power. State power estimates that the liquid wind power at sea, as we are talking about here, will be six to nine times as expensive as the bottomless wind power. The Swedish Shipowners’ Association points out in its consultation response that costs are one of the major challenges, and they believe that in a national maritime wind strategy, costs – cost reduction – should be one of the main elements by building an efficient value chain and reducing installation, development and service costs. How will the State Council contribute to reducing the costs of offshore liquid wind power?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2141	Then we have to do more of what we have already done – I refer to Energy21, research and development. In fact, Norway is at the forefront in terms of sea wind competence. We have many Norwegian suppliers that are out there, precisely because you have a competence and a knowledge of the wind at sea. We have that knowledge, among other things. collected through 50 years of activity on Norwegian pedestal. Research is being carried out and technologies are being tested using public funds that have just been made available to support and contribute to technological development, which needs to be done in this area, as in other areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2146	As I said, it is six to nine times as expensive to expand offshore liquid wind power as bottom-solid wind power, and so far there are more than enough areas of shallow depth to expand the bottom-solid wind power around Europe. If Norway is going to join the market, we have to bring costs down, and that is the Swedish Shipowners' Association and the industry's demand. That is why I again ask the Council of State: How can we make a practical contribution to reducing the costs of installation and servicing on the base of Norwegian liquid wind power?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2151	It is not the task of the Council of State to quantify targets for the Norwegian supplier industry. But what I can be very clear about is that we support Norwegian companies with research funds, research programmes – I referred to Energy21 – and among others. through the job of Norwegian Energy Partners. The areas we open also provide an opportunity, together with the public instruments, to develop this technology in terms of costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2156	Deep Purple is music for us who have lived for a while – and that expression has gained a new meaning through the TechnipFMC in Kongsberg, which sees the possibility of producing hydrogen in connection with liquid wind power generation. It's incredibly exciting ideas. They see electrolysis, hydrogen storage at the bottom, as a kind of hydrogen battery for continuous electricity supply to our oil and gas platforms to bring the emissions down. We're talking about maybe 80-90 pst. reduction, if you have this hydrogen battery. Can the Council say anything about how much this consideration — with hydrogen production — has been reflected in the assessment of the sea wind strategy?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2163	Although I'm not that old, I agree that Deep Purple is great and great music. To produce hydrogen, we know that there's one thing you need a lot of, and that's energy. What I'm experiencing is that there are many initiatives in terms of hydrogen. That's good. There are many initiatives in view of the opportunities we have on land and the energy available to this energy nation. That's good. So I think, as the representative here points out, that sea wind, with the energy that could get out of it, also gives some possibilities in terms of what the representative is raising.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2170	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2177	I also had a question to the Council of State in connection with my post that is coming now – as he may be able to answer, according to the list of speakers. It is a follow-up to the contributions of Mr Botten Norderhus. It is also true that this is not entirely conflict-free with sea winds, and what is being done to check that cross-interests are involved. In general, in relation to land, areas close to land, the interests and contradictions will be greatest. Ground areas can be fish banks – we know that. We see, for example: that, in its opinion, the Fiskarlag and Fiskebåg consider that Equinor does not take into account the fishing interests in its planned performance project, the Hywind Tampen project. The 11 wind turbines, with a capacity of 8 MW, are planned to supply the oil installations Gulfaks and Snorre with renewable electric energy, they refer to. In other words, good intentions and important projects, but not without conflict. Norway’s Fiskarlag wrote in a letter to the NVE last March that they have not been sufficiently involved in the process of drafting the Law on Marine Energy, nor in the impact study. They say that they have not been invited in a sufficient way in the process. This is very unfortunate if that is true. For any area concerned, the maritime fishing industry must be in the process before a decision on localisation is taken. We need all of Norway on this, the whole body, to get these important projects moving. SV sympathises with the requirements of the Fiskerlage by letter of 9 May 2019 to the Government of the Prime Minister that a land-use notification must be prepared for the entire use of Norwegian seas, where all cross-interests are affected. We think it's smart. There may soon be a penalty in the form of protests and conflicts of interest if you are not in the forefront. But sea wind is an important field of activity, especially in order to electrify oil and gas production. It is sad to note that the government parties cannot be part of the intention of proposal No. 4 today: ‘The government is asked to set a target for Norway to have a 10 pst. market share of global turnover in the marine wind market and a turnover of 50 billion. kroner by 2030, and to facilitate this.» Once again, I feel it's a little bit like this, if a clothes off all the parties, that the government's favorite program on TV would be a static picture of an oil platform in the sunset, minute by minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2195	Yes, at least this is a representative who does not want still pictures, but wants speed in the sewing cases, to say it as we say on More. The council did not come completely empty-handed to the Storting today, and I am pleased about that. But he doesn't have a full toolbox either, if I can say so. The council said in the exchange of words that they have spent a long time, and I fully agree with that. But then maybe it's time to start having your clear policy clear, more concrete than you've ever been able to say – on with your shirt, fold up your sleeves, and get things done! To the representatives of Kjeseth and Halleland: Interestingly, when you have completed your post, you might forget to listen to the debate. I had posts before both of the two representatives and said very clearly that in the event of an incursion, the Workers' Party will not vote in favour of proposal No. So 6 and that's what the representatives have said. So it's clear. With regard to what was recorded by the Shipowner's Association, I think it's incredibly important to bring those signals. Is it not possible for the Council of State to look at how to sharpen the measures in the strategy in order to deliver both faster and better actions — which need to be done? Finally, I would like to say to the representative, Mr Moxnes, who is no longer here: Red has its own proposal that they challenged us as to why we do not vote in favour. I think it is a good thing to mention that Northern Europe is still heavily dependent on fossil power generation and has set high targets both at national and EU level for the transition to renewable energy. Here Norwegian gas plays an important role, carbon capture and storage are important, and it is also possible to send hydrogen to Europe. However, Europe will still need to import renewable energy, which can deliver important revenues to Norway and continue our position as an important energy player internationally. Norway has served well on hydropower. Marine wind revenues are also to benefit ordinary people, and it may be important to contribute in that area as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2208	Now it opens up areas of sea wind. Marine wind can become a renewable industrial venture where Norway has unique opportunities. Norwegian competence is invaluable in the development of sea wind, and here there is a high potential for Norwegian jobs. Indeed, everything indicates that the government is betting on this. I notice that the opposition – as usual in the Energy and Environment Committee – is trying to doubt what the government is doing, when we know that things are happening in the energy and climate fields that these parties could only dream of happening during their reign. What we're seeing over and over again in these things is that the red-green parties are too late for the party. We're looking at CCS, where they keep saying that the government is working too slowly. Then you see what happens with the state budget, and then you see what happens with the revised national budget – and there are the red-green parties at the back. We are looking at sea wind, where the red-green parties are asking for a strategy, but a strategy has already been put forward by the government. So this exercise of repeating itself in new documents has become the left-hand trade mark on energy and climate issues. I'm glad that we have a government that is betting on new technology, and that shows the offensive attitude that is needed, because we know that we need to solve the climate problem, we don't just need one new technology – we need a lot of new technologies. The government is aware of this, and that's why we have an instrument that gets increased funding every year from the non-socialist parties – much more than they got under the red-green ones – just to help Norwegian companies convert and invest in new technology. But it's clear that if the left-hand side wants to stress every time that they're too late in energy and climate policy, they'll have to keep doing that. We shall continue to implement the offensive policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2221	The trademark of the representative Stefan Heggelund is such articles that he now made. From his side, there's not much sense in the opposition's policy or in the opposition's representatives, he's talking here about getting late for the party. I sat on the Control and Constitutional Committee and dealt with the CCS bet of the Red-Green Government on Mongstad and the lunar landing. At least that led to several of us, in order to use the party language, getting behind. Because that used 8 billion. kr, and not a single kilo of CO2 has yet been captured. So it's important to think about and important to have a professional basis. The centre party is responsible for a national industrial policy that creates profitability and is not based on business neutrality. We stand by the tradition in Norway that any major industry in Norway must interact with private owners, trade unions and the state and provide framework conditions for the development of profitability. Here are good opportunities to develop profitability, because we are in an industry that harvests fossil energy at a high value. Liquid sea breezes may be used to replace 162 gas turbines which consume about 10 pst. the amount of gas used for everything from operating platforms to gas pipeline systems. A report from Norwegian oil and gas from 2007 said that the full electrification of the cap is 9 TWh. I'm not into what's the correct number now, but we're talking about enormous amounts of energy and huge emissions of CO2 - 28 pst. of the total climate emissions in question. It is possible, as the representative Mr Nävra was in the Chamber, to replace 80-90 pst. the CO2 emissions from the combustion of gas with the combination of liquid sea wind and the electrolysis of desalinated sea water for the production of hydrogen, i.e. the production of hydrogen from sea wind electricity. It gives green hydrogen, it can be stored on the sea bed, and can then provide stable electricity from sea wind and power to hydrogen, which is stored. The Kongsberg industry with FMC Technologies at its head has made headway here and is in full swing. It is a very important technology development work that is taking place, in line with Kongsberg's unanimous decision that we are in the midst of a climate crisis. It helps to convert the Kongsberg industry, and it can provide jobs and long value chains. Not least, it is internationally important that we as a wholesaler do this, because then companies in Norway can refer to Norwegian authorities and refer to good results at home, which is a prerequisite for them to move on in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2235	The representative Nävra asked what the government was doing to avoid conflicts in opening sea winds off our coast. I really just want to refer to what the representative Lundtägen said was important: that we had to think and use expertise. That's exactly what the government has done in terms of what we propose should be devoted to future sea winds. Then I just show that what we're going to do is send this out to the hearing, precisely because we don't have to move the debate we have about wind power on land, out to the sea. Having knowledge before we finally say yes is important to me. We know that there are other users of the sea. There are other users of the sea also in these areas, but a thorough basic job has been done with this, where the NVE are the ones who have worked with studies on this. There are not randomly selected areas, there are suitable areas, compared to the fact that there are natural values also at sea, but there are also areas that are pointed to in relation to where you can benefit from this force. I think there have been many good points in this debate. Exploiting areas off our coast and extracting the potential for value creation in an industrial development with regard to sea winds in Norway is important. But we must not forget the dimension that also lies within this, that the sea wind market is not just Norway, the market is the world. The largest market in the supplier and supplier industries, which has the best expertise in this, is the world. One of the representatives gave a very good example of it: Equinor's bet, or what you evaluate, in areas outside of Gran Canaria. We certainly cannot build sea wind outside the Norwegian coast and supply Gran Canaria, but we can contribute to the supply industry and competence. It's good for value creation and employment.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2248	An important part of this debate is about technology development in more areas than just wind. Large offshore solar parks are also being built in the world. They also have an enormous potential. That's some of the technology we're going to compare sea wind to. We're also going to spend money in Norway on a land-based, bio-based renewable energy, so we don't have huge money to put into a government subsidy. Of course, it's the opposition's advantage that it can be a full sailor and think that there's all the world with money. The representative, Lundtigen, drew up an example of this: Mongstad has cost us dearly and has not given us any emission cuts. On the other hand, it has given us a lot of new technology and opportunities to develop technology, so it hasn't been a worthless waste. It's been a useful investment, but it didn't give us the moon landing we thought we were going to get. The same was true of the user charge. It struck the entire bone during the construction of biofuel production in Norway, which has fought a little, but has managed to build up – but it has gone too slowly. When the palm oil, after the opposition, went out of the tanks last year – 200 million. litres – it was not a Norwegian production from the Norwegian forest industry that stood and filled those tanks. We've mainly imported that from our neighboring country. It is good that fortunately there are others other than us who also develop technology, create industry and are involved in doing the job of cutting emissions. We are also discussing the risk we as politicians are willing to have. Are we willing to take as much economic risk as the opposition here now wants, in the sense that we are going to build massively a liquid marine wind industry in Norway, without really knowing the cost of it, and where it is going to contribute? The fact that it's coming, there's no doubt about it. We all agree on the possibility here, but this is also about the risk we are willing to take, and what technologies are being developed in parallel. What is the problem of building outside the Canary Islands? Indeed, exports of the competence industry and technologies are the great opportunity here, and Norway has an estimated 5 pst. of the total sea wind market already. It is at least much better to export that competence than to develop controversial oil projects in Brazil and Australia, for that matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2261	The President would point out that he is in doubt as to whether the term ‘full seafarer’ is to be regarded as being in good parliamentary practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2266	The representative Nävra was in the pulpit and claimed that the government’s wish program was an oil drilling platform in sunset. No, that's not right. The representative would like to note that the government has recently presented a revised marine strategy, Blue Opportunities. Sea wind is here one of six priority areas of the national strategy for research and development of climate-friendly energy technologies, Energy21. Norway currently has a public tool that supports the deployment of new energy technologies, such as marine wind technologies at all stages of the innovation chain. Energy in the Norwegian Research Council is central here. Key energy and industrial policy objectives shall be achieved and an important instrument in the implementation of the Energy21 strategy. ENERGY has a number of projects within the sea breeze supported. This also includes technological developments within both liquid and bottom-solid sea winds. The industry itself is at the ball. Technology is immature, but it's going to work well and target. We believe that this could be a new industrial venture for our supplier industry, because at the Stordconferencing that recently passed the stack, a wet dream was planted: Statfjord A was in its time built on what is now the yard for Kværner. The same yard has now been contracted to demolish this platform. The dream is that the recycled steel will be found in a sea windmill that in a few years leaves Sunnhordland with a course for the sea, where she will produce renewable energy for those who come after us. These are business's own words – we support them.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2275	The representative Else-May Botten Norderhus has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2280	I dedicated my contribution to the representative Heggelund. If it is that the Norwegian people are so happy in everything the government does, why has the number of Document 8 proposals in this room increased every year while the government has been sitting? There must be a sign that there is a need for a little bit different, a little bit more and a little faster policy than the government actually is. So to the party to which the representative Heggelund invited: In the case of carbon capture and storage, the Labour Party has made two proposals – one on financing models and one on investment decisions – at least we have reviewed it several times. The matter has not been resolved. So to the CO 2 fund, the government has stranded the negotiations, so nothing happens. That is also an answer. In the case of sea winds, a national strategy has not been proposed by us, but by the Shipowners' Association in the contributions to this matter. We just point out that it's important. We have three specific proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2294	I think it's great if the Workers' Party now wants to go away from its bet on 100 TWh sea winds, but I want to quote some words from Espen Barth Eide, in the Montel newsletter: The reason why we're now making this change is that we've gone through the matter more thoroughly, and putting such a number disturbs the debate we really want. We realize that this was simply a little unlucky. I record that in the Workers' Party it's called an incurrency. It's okay, it's great. I think we're going to be able to get a good bet on sea wind. I think we should definitely take advantage of the possibilities we have when the consensus in this room is as large as it is. However, I think it might be in the right place to be a little sober when we talk about support schemes and the measures to be taken, which several of the actors have been out there and called for. Now we're putting things together in a good way. We're giving access to areas, and then we're going to take this a little bit as it comes, in a way that we're going to make sure we succeed. Then I want to take two words about all the wind we're about to stop building on land. Everyone agrees with the heart that the problem is solved if we just put the windmills on the sea. There are not so many of our wind turbines located on the sea, but I record that in each of the projects that have been made complaints and recordings from the fishing industry have come. So I think we're going to add up to thorough processes when we're going to establish these parks. There is a broad consensus on this matter. We all have a common desire to succeed. Then we must not create unnecessary uncertainty about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2307	The representative Ketil Kjeseth has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2312	I regret the use of words instead of full sailors. I have registered that the Labour Party's mayor in Bergen is proposing a new state company for liquid sea wind production. It also testifies that you are on the lookout and are lost in both where you are going and what you want. Today we have both Equinor and Statkraft, both of which are in the wind, which has great profits. Just to oblige them to use a little bit more of that surplus, which they have in large quantities, is also an opportunity to drive this forward. But setting up a new state company only for this would at least make it clear how much State aid you would have to contribute to realise this within two, three, ten or fifteen years – or whatever a person wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2321	The representative Arne Nävra has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2326	I did not register that the Council of State responded to my previous post, where I had put some direct questions to the Council of State. This concerns the importance of the fishing industry and the processes involved, both for the law and for the impact assessment, and how much they have been involved in the process. The words I quoted from the Fiskerlage were really quite serious, and what I want to hear from the Council of State, if he wants to use speaking time on it, is whether he looks at the criticism of the Fiskarlage with seriousness and seriousness, and whether he will consider a big message in view of different conflicts, land distribution and land assessment in Norwegian sea areas. Finally, I just want to announce that we are not going to support Red's proposal. It's too extensive, and we can't take a stand on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2336	The representative asks us how to manage fisheries in a good way – and will we do it? My answer to that is that yes, it's important that we do. The proposals that lie there today are being put to the hearing. In this way, more knowledge will be seen in relation to the knowledge on which these proposals are based. I have the greatest intention of taking that knowledge with me when we're going to conclude. However, if these areas are designated, there will be a concession treatment for each project in these areas. There will be impact studies which will also be part of fisheries activity. Today, we have a good management system to use our oceans for value creation. We also need to take that system with us when we're going to develop a new industry. What is absolutely important is that we do not create a new industry that distorts other industries. I come from a place where I know the importance of distributing the land in a good way to get a good value creation, and sea winds can have challenges in themselves in terms of land conflicts. I have said this before: there are overfishing kerosene installations on the Norwegian base. It tells us something about the use of the sea and the land and who is there today. There are no overfishing sea windmills today, and I don't think that's going to happen in the future either. That means we have to do this wisely, and so do I.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2353	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2369	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that – within the allocated speaking time – up to six rows of replies are given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2378	First, I must thank the Committee for good cooperation, and the purpose of the proposal for a representative is to ensure that the exploitation of the natural resource wind power benefits the community, following the model of hydropower generation. There is an overall committee which sees the issues raised by the proposers as being relevant, and in particular since there is an ongoing discussion relating to the NVE's proposal for a national framework for wind power, which includes: designated areas which have been assessed as most suitable for wind power. In this context, several questions and a significant discussion have been raised in several parts of the country, in particular on issues related to local value creation and the bonding of large areas. A majority of the Committee points out that there is a common objective of benefiting the community from the exploitation of natural resources, but that ownership of hydropower cannot simply be compared to ownership of wind power. There is no doubt that an overall approach is important in raising a discussion on the framework conditions for wind power. The Parties share the intention of the proposers that the exploitation of natural resources should benefit a wider community. For the centre party, it is important that wind power development is locally anchored and that it preserves both landscape and nature quality on the one hand, and ensures existing industries and contributes to the income of the community on the other. For us, it is also important that development should ensure Norwegian ownership for the future, and we therefore support the proposal where the government is asked to ‘examine and come back with proposals for a wind-return scheme as it is for hydropower’. Another important element of the Centre Party is that when we use natural resources, the value creation will benefit the community. Therefore, it is absolutely right for us to tax wind power through natural resource taxes. The proposal for a natural resource tax on wind power based on the hydropower model is therefore a good one, on which the Centre Party will wholeheartedly support it. In the development of wind power, we know – and have recently experienced – that there may be major conflicts of interest between wind power and natural interests and between local and national demands for wind power generation. We have to take that seriously. The central party therefore believes that the future development of wind power on land must be in line with local and local government decisions. We therefore propose today that the concession should not be granted in breach of a local government decision. I would like to refer to the proposal of the Senterpartiet.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2397	The representative Sandra Borch has drawn up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2402	I would like to start by thanking the rapporteur for a good job. The proposal itself aims to ensure that the exploitation of the natural resource wind power can benefit the community more, and will look at how the framework for hydropower versus wind power can be assessed in the future. The Workers' Party welcomes the proposal and a knowledge-based discussion on ownership and distribution of wind-related value creation is important. But for us, it's important first to get an investigation, as a good basis for the case, and to conclude on the direction we're going in, after that. As a force socialist, I and the Workers' Party want renewable energy to help us secure and create new jobs throughout the country, including on the basis of wind power. However, we agree that very much attention should be paid to the views of the municipalities in these concession procedures, as the rapporteur also said, even though the Centre Party has its own proposal. We are concerned with predictability and believe that it is unfortunate whether the conditions for deployment are changed in the course of the process or whether all studies have been carried out – that is why the proposal not to authorise the start of power development constructions until all studies have been requested have actually been carried out.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2413	The intention behind this Document 8 proposal is probably good, and it is possible to support the proposers in the idea that society should have something to do with making land available for wind power on land, in line with other power generation. This is also the background to the government’s current tax selection, primarily to look at the hydropower regime, also looking at wind power when considering the renewable energy tax ecosystem, a work to be carried out this year. If the big community gets something back, it's easier to accept loss of other values that you experience when installing wind power. It's not like today that the public doesn't extract value from installations - even if the installations are on private hands. The vast majority of wind power municipalities have secured guaranteed income in the form of property taxes. For many municipalities, these are stable and necessary incomes; in addition, there are tax receipts from those who work, and there are local jobs – jobs that are dear to the districts. When there is a relapse, that the facilities should be returned to the public after the concession period is over, the matter is different. Here one indicates that windmills have approx. 25 years of life, and then what was a source of income may turn into a source of expenditure. In this way, it will be the public that will receive the costs of cleaning and refurbishment, possibly investment in new and safer more modern facilities. Public owners can also make investments in new packages today. These have a marginal intensification until now, and the best projects are probably out of date. However, it is worth noting that parks listed today, or given concession, also have public owners. The amendment of concession law must in the case of new installations. However, today's concession system is a long way off, since the state may refuse to grant new concessions at the end of the concession period or impose other requirements in a new concession round. We also refer to comments made in the submission and underline that local self-determination is strong in the Right. We therefore support the government's line that local decisions should be at the bottom of a concession granted by the OED. As we can see, the intentions of this Document 8 have been taken care of both in terms of the distribution of income, which is now being examined by the tax selection process, and in terms of the concession and the way in which any existing installations are to be carried forward after a further concession period. With that, I'm taking up the proposal that Right is a part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2428	The representative, Liv Kari Eskeland, then drew up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2433	I notice that the proposers point out that the aim of the proposal is to ensure that the exploitation of the natural resource wind power benefits the community according to the model of hydropower generation. However, it is important to bear in mind that there is an ongoing discussion now linked to the NVE’s proposal for a national framework for wind power, which points to areas assessed by the NVE, well to note, as best suited to wind power. It is important to bear in mind that while the exploitation of natural resources is to benefit the community, it is not that ownership of hydropower and wind power can be easily compared. An overall approach is important when raising a debate on the framework conditions for wind power. As we see it, there will also be significant disadvantages associated with a fall-back requirement for wind power after the end of the concession period, including: given that the lifetime of wind power is very different from that of hydropower. The use of wind power resources is also based on a different legal basis from the use of hydropower, in addition to the fact that hydropower has historically generated high returns, while wind power has so far been subsidized. Today's legislation on ownership, concession and taxation of wind power was also designed by the red-green government, which I would like to remind you of. Then it's worth noting that the tax range that's going through hydropower taxation is also going to come up with an assessment of the tax on wind power. They come with their position for the autumn, and I will therefore await it. I actually believe that it would have been directly unprofessional to adopt a change three months before the expert committee comes up with its recommendation, because what is the point of setting up an expert committee to review the tax, if you have decided in advance on the model? Finally, I record that there are some people who are trying to take this debate to something that it is not really about. I would also like to say from this room that I am by no means a fan of windmills, and that both I and many others in the Progress Party are skeptical to large-scale windmill expansion. But that is not what this debate is about, it is about the right of return, taxation and ownership of wind power.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2444	There are some challenges between cutting greenhouse gas emissions on the one hand and taking care of nature and biodiversity on the other. Wind power development on land in Norway is slightly different from the wind energy policy of some other countries, for we have chosen to place wind farms relatively far out in nature, not in the urban strata in which other countries have chosen to do so — and a scissor to power hubs for localisation. With a slightly higher rate and expansion, it has among other things. created some of the challenges we face in today's debate. It is also important to remember that 39 wind power concessions have now been granted under today’s government, mainly based on the regime that the red-green government launched in 2009. There is a reminder that a rare find the fasitism when regulating a new sector, and there is now a need to adjust something to its management. But now we also have projects that enable us to make reasonable adjustments. Local self-government is important to the Left, we have respect for both ways. It's one of the challenges with the proposal of the Center Party, which wants a veto right. That means you have to give a veto even when they say yes locally. It has been rejected far more than has been said yes, and it shows some of the problem of introducing such a veto right. It also appeals to the concession agency we have – that here is the great national interest and it should be based on a professionalism. The left does not support accessing a local vet right. There is almost no over-management of local requests here – it is only once. Then there is the discussion of the fall back on wind power, unlike on hydropower – it's only 20 years. If one is going to drive it further, it's going to have to apply for a new concession, it's essentially different from hydropower. It's not just letting a windmill move on, it's also another landowner situation. Most wind farms are built on private land, the landowner has rented out his land. So it is important to continue working with local self-government, as well as the process of informing local politicians, landowners and dialogue with builders – and to develop a more predictable tax regime for wind power.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2455	About 90 pst. Norwegian hydropower production is known to be publicly owned. It is also widely known that the income generated by the power companies is to be used by municipalities and county councils for public welfare purposes. These revenues come through profits and indirectly through taxes. Norway has rigged the system so that the use of water, an important natural resource that we jointly own, will benefit the community. That's what we've done. We haven't been equally forward-looking with the resource that the wind represents. But then we're not just talking about the wind being for everyone, we're also talking about the areas, nature, that are also owned together. We have the universal right, the experience of it, and the use of it. We have seen that gains from using our wind and our areas are increasingly going to private or foreign companies that are not part of the Norwegian community. Often, there is a large investment fund. As far as hydropower is concerned, forward-looking politicians have provided, through several steps, a right of return to the state when the concession period for a privately owned company ends. There is no equivalent scheme for wind turbines, and most have concessions of around 25 years with conditions to restore the area after the end of the period. Now it is enough that a new concession is most likely to be applied for after the end of the concession period – both because there are areas that are suitable for wind power, worked up for it, and because there will still be a need for the force, perhaps even more than now. This is when SV believes that the public should be able to take over the plant. Community resources should benefit the Community. It is in the clear text that SV has as its position. That is why we have also proposed a natural resource tax on wind power according to a similar pattern as for hydropower, where it already exists. SV has registered the comments of the Council of State to the proposals. To a large extent, they assume that it is difficult to compare water and air. Ida, so does SV. But we also understand that if the Council of State had had the political will to address these proposals, he has a relatively large body of professionals in the ministry to make adjustments, changes and adjustments to the proposals if they had been adopted. Here we are simply asking that the government come back with proposals that follow up on the intentions of good processing in the department, and after normal proceedings with hearings, etc. I will return to the grounds for opposition proposal No. 3 in another article. I take up proposal No. 3, on behalf of SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2468	The representative Arne Nävra has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2474	The development of wind power is currently contributing to emission-free power generation, jobs and value creation in many parts of the country. Yes, this creates values for both landowners, businesses in the districts and municipalities affected, as well as society. Wind power can also contribute to lower electricity prices, for the benefit of all consumers, not least for the important power-intensive industry. But wind power can also have negative effects on the environment, landscapes, outdoors, sanitation, local populations, etc. Therefore, it is important to avoid the most vulnerable areas and to avoid excessive disadvantages for people. That is precisely what the proposal for a national framework for wind power, which is being consulted, is all about. The purpose of the proposal for a representative appears to be to ensure that the exploitation of the natural resource wind power benefits the community. However, I cannot see that the proposal to introduce a similar regulation for wind power which, for hydropower, is a precise or appropriate instrument. First, I would like to stress that the attitude of the host municipalities will continue to be given great importance in individual matters. There is no doubt about it, because it is also practice. In the case of hydropower, a concession is granted to public hydropower companies for the acquisition of waterfalls for an unlimited period of time. Privates may acquire up to one third in public water power companies. Before the amendment of the law in 2008, private concessions for the acquisition of water could exceed one third for a limited period of up to 60 years. Since concessions for the acquisition of water-fall rights may only be granted to public water power companies, it is no longer appropriate to impose conditions of repatriation. The concession for the construction and operation of wind power plants is granted under the Energy Act for a maximum duration of 30 years. This time period fits well with the service life of wind turbines. The use of wind power resources is based on an actual and legal basis other than the use of hydropower. In particular, in view of the lifetime differences for hydropower and wind power plants, I do not believe that there is a need for self-regulation on public ownership of wind power plants. There will be significant disadvantages associated with a demand for wind power receding at the end of the concession period. In my view, the requirement for the fall-back of wind power plants is not an appropriate measure for good resource management.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2489	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2494	The Council of State said, just before his intervention was completed, that there would be significant challenges with a demand for a fall-back for wind power. But what the proposal for a representative proposed, and what the committee recommends, is that we want an investigation. Does the Council of State think that he can today say that the competence to be so bastant is there, or could you have thought of being involved in an investigation to assess this? It seems like it's very political. Can the Council of State say that professionalism could be a strong contribution to looking at this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2499	As I said in my post, my starting point is that there is a significant difference between hydropower and wind power. Wind power concessions are granted for a period of 30 years. The hydropower has a completely different time period. So I mean there's no basis for evaluating this in the same way as hydropower.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2504	After the NVE presented a national framework for wind power, it has created enormous commitment. Among other things, the Central Party has made proposals in the case today, where we want to confirm that concessions cannot be granted in breach of municipal government decisions – a line of which the Progress Party has previously been a member, and I am also familiar with the order of its national meeting. Is the reason that the government parties will not support the Center Party here, that they will have an opportunity to overrun the local democracy where the municipalities have said no to the development of wind power?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2511	The concessions granted from 2013 until today by this government are given on the basis of feedback from the municipalities. With one exception, which was the extension of a wind farm in Tromsø, only the municipalities have been listened to. The local authorities' opinion on this, the local legitimacy of this, is very important. It is part of the procedure when the concessions are considered. It is today, and it will also be in the future – at least as long as this Council of State sits.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2518	I think it's important that the municipalities have a guarantee that no wind farms are built that they don't want. The centre party and the environmental party Dei Green have a proposal in this case that says the municipalities have veto. A concession shall not be granted in breach of local government decisions. It is also well said at a national meeting this spring that we should not say yes to wind farms that do not have local membership of the local government in all the municipalities that it applies. Would the State Council state that this is a current requirement, that there should be local membership of the local government in all the municipalities in question?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2525	What I can say is that when applying for a concession to wind turbines in a municipality, the municipality's attitude to what is being applied for is part of the treatment of the concession that is important and important. I think we can show that that's exactly what happens to the concessions given by this government. This council has not given any concessions without a local acceptance for it. That's something we have also expressed in the government statement, that local autonomy is important. The construction of wind power and the exploitation of natural resources are also about having a local legitimacy. Therefore, the opinion of the municipalities is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2532	A part of the turmoil associated with wind power is not only associated with parks that are built, but with quite a large amount of ongoing concession requests, and it is clear that a clear rule on the municipality's accession would have contributed to a few more concession cases. When the Land Meeting of the Progress Party has agreed that there is a requirement for local membership of the local government in all the municipalities it is in, wouldn't the Council have contributed to more peace around wind power development if this requirement, as I understand it, was established, according to the press, by the fact that a large majority of the Land Meeting of the Progress Party has joined?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2537	What I can assure you is that we will do what we have done and that the National Assembly of the Progress Party was also committed to listening to what is said in the local decisions. That's what this government has done, and we can also refer to it, given the concessions given. But then it's also that no new concessions are given now. We have stopped before the national framework has been addressed, and now the national framework is being consulted. We travel around the country, we have recording meetings, we invite all the municipalities and especially the interest groups to make recordings before we go to the gatherings that come, and try to see where there can be areas that have good and great legitimacy in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2544	The government parties are in a note with everyone else, except SV, who says that one has a common goal of benefiting the community from the exploitation of natural resources – that is, the community as opposed to private ones. The Community in terms of hydropower is to a certain extent the municipalities because the municipalities make natural resources available to compensate for the disadvantages of the development. Tax is an important part of compensating for it. Then I see that the government's parties are against the government to investigate and come back with a proposal for a natural resource tax on wind power to benefit the municipalities. My question is then: What does the Council of State mean that it will benefit the community? And further, is the Council of State in principle against imposing a natural resource tax on wind power?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2552	Until today, taxes on wind power have been about how much tax – or how much of the taxpayers’ money – we are going to spend to get at all windmills built. That was when the Senterpartiet last put in the Oil and Energy Department, subsidies or tax incentives were introduced to build up wind power, precisely because the profitability in wind power did not increase this type of energy. So technology has evolved, the incentives that were introduced have worked, and there's another profitability in this now than it was before. We also notice the interest in this. If there's something I'm sure of, it's that tax we're always discussing. When this issue has not been more prominent in relation to wind power, it has to do with history. I'm also referring to the Tax Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2557	The council gave a good description of the new situation, but he did not answer the question. Government parties agree that a common objective is to benefit the community from the exploitation of natural resources – it says – while not including a proposal to investigate and come back with proposals for a natural resource tax. I repeat the question: what does the Council of State mean that it will benefit the community, i.e. the municipalities? And is the Council of State basically opposed to a natural resource tax on wind power, which has now become profitable, as opposed to the red-green period?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2564	Then I refer you to what several representatives have pointed out. This is what the Tax Committee is looking at. Then we're going to discuss this in the future, precisely because we have a completely different situation in terms of profitability in wind power, than we had before. As for the benefit of the community: I was at home in the Westphalia 14 days ago. There I opened a wind farm in my neighbouring municipality. There the rapporteur said in the opening speech that she was very happy for what happened to the community and the municipality of Blackland. She pointed specifically at property taxes, and she pointed to the values that were created in business. And if we go to Lake Meuse, I record that the community there, expressed from the municipality, is very satisfied with the wind farm, which is going to supply energy to Alcoa, which produces aluminium and ensures local value creation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2575	The cord shift is over. The following speakers also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2582	Norway's watercourse and energy Directorates have, as is well known, put forward their proposal for a national framework for wind power, which has identified areas best suited to wind power. This proposal has raised a great deal of debate, both on the need for development, on ownership of development and on the role of municipalities and local democracy. A large part of the developed wind power in Norway today is financed and owned by private individuals, and for a large part by foreign stakeholders, and the same debt for wind power projects under planning. No matter what one might think of wind power development on land, this is not a desirable development, at least not after the view of the Center Party. That is why we are in favour of a proposal today to sort out a proposal for a wind strike plan, as it is too watery today. We also think it is right to evaluate a natural resource tax on wind power that benefits municipalities. Then there are several proposed areas in the framework plan for wind power in Hordaland. In Hordaland, I perceive that there is a great deal of local resistance to these proposed areas, and I believe that there are also good reasons. Hordaland is the largest hydropower producer in the country. One has already renounced large natural areas for hydroelectric power generation and powerline expansion. Many think, therefore, that there is no room for the further expansion of the mountain world and of our coastal and fjord areas, and that the remaining interrelated natural areas with pristine character, valuable natural and open-air areas must be concentrated and taken care of. Special debate is on areas 50 and 51 of the NVE's framework plan, North Hordland and Gulen and Sunnhordland and Haugaland, and there is a great debate in the municipalities that these should not be included in the framework. There will be an important part of the election campaign now in the fall, and it is about local self-government. For what does it help if it becomes a multiple against expansion unless the same parts of the Stortinget can say that we're going to align ourselves to it? After all, it was a national framework objective to mitigate the level of conflict. Then a saying from the Storting should say that we should respect what one comes up to locally. That's after all where you're going to live with this expansion, and that's what it takes to create legitimacy for this expansion. For this reason, the Centre Party recommends that expansion be in line with local wishes, while the Government Party states that only major emphasis should be placed on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2595	: Representative Meininger Saudland from the Progress Party stressed in his speech that this was not the big debate on wind power. I don't agree with that. I mean these things are about how far wind power is going to have a future in Norway, or whether wind power is something that should primarily be connected to comment fields on Facebook. It's true that both the financing system and the green certificates came under the previous government, and that was also when a lot of pressure on the concession treatment. The parties that are now trying to take a little distance from this were the same parties that were most eager in terms of written questions to say that it happened too little, and it happened too late. Resistance to wind power is rising. There is no doubt about it. There are many good arguments against wind power. I'm gonna take this seriously. But I don't think it's possible to be in principle against turning the wind into power. It's a pretty reasonable way to produce power, so I think we have to find solutions that are to live with. There is a difference between sea wind and wind power on land. Among other things, the biggest difference is the profitability of this, but one cannot see Norway being closed down with wind power at sea if we did not have competence in wind power on land. We don't know the conflicts on land, we don't know the marine conflicts. But then it's about setting this up in a way that makes people who have to live with the windmills benefit from it. This is why the Central Party wants the municipalities to have a veto right. There are quite a few of us with the National Assembly of the Progress Party – perhaps not quite a few with a signal from the Council of State. I think more of the values should return locally. Therefore, we are for a natural resource tax on wind power, and we want the community to have control, that we guarantee Norwegian ownership through a relapse. It's like one can get a good conscience three times out of the same wind farm. The locals think that they use the power, the owner may market that they own this wind power and therefore are a green company, and at the top of everything, a guarantee of origin can be used, so that some coal power plant down in Poland can also have a good conscience – i.e. a good conscience three times in the same kilowatt hour. It doesn't create trust. Windmills aren't beautiful, they're useful, and I think in a situation where the community wants them because they get something back, there'll still be parts of the country where you want wind power development.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2614	First of all, I believe the Council of State mentioned that we had to take into account the views of municipalities on ownership and natural resource taxes etc. I did not fully grasp the point of view. It is possible that the Council of State will have to explain it a little more to me, but I cannot help but understand that the municipalities will support such proposals. They would be impossible against a natural resource tax, a public ownership or a right of return. I think it sounds very strange when we see how the pattern has been in the municipalities around the country in terms of hydropower – a strange sight. Perhaps the Council of State could explain what he really meant. There are large natural values that are at stake in the development of wind power on land; it shows with great clarity all the local actions. In this case, it is essential that careful studies of the impact on nature be carried out before the expansion of wind and hydropower. A short time ago, I had the opportunity to visit the disputed wind power development on the Südmark mountain in Flatanger municipality in Trøndelag. One thing is that this is one of the most intact natural areas in the whole region, from the fjord to the inwards of the country, but there was also a requirement for it to be carried out for and review of rare species, such as the United Kingdom. Hubro, large plums, melons, chicken hooks, etc. The studies were to serve as a basis for any consideration to be given to hedged birds during the installation period. Ornitologists at Nord University who conducted the study found Hubro in the influence area of the wind power plant at Sørmarkberg, which was not assumed to be the time of the final concession in 2016. The point of this is that it turns out that the work was started before the studies were completed. We have also seen this in many other areas of construction in terms of intervention in Norwegian nature. Thus, you could not take full account of any hedged hoops in the area, as you should. What, then, is the point of such investigations? Are they just some kind of necessary duty, some kind of offspring, something you have to go through? I know well about the biology of this species. I have worked quite a lot with it and have tried to be a little dune lifter and Big Brother into its family life even. So I know this species quite well from my life as a filmmaker. I know its requirements for living, and I'm very concerned that one or more hedgehogs can get out of here with completed development. So what's the point of this? Well, this is one example of the need for good professional studies before development, whether at sea or at sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2629	In Norway — throughout our long-term country — we have rich renewable resources that we have managed and exploited through generations to the benefit of both Norway as a nation and too many local communities. It demands that a person make wise political decisions and that a good framework be established around both processes and decisions taken. One must ensure that the creation of value from the exploitation of those resources actually benefits local communities, and one must ensure that the costs for which local communities are responsible for nature interventions are also compensated. Therefore, it is incredibly important to rely on the experience of your history and to ensure national ownership of natural resources. One must ensure that the values benefit the community, that the communities have a legitimate share of the value creation and that there is local decision making and local decision-making. I hear the Council of State in the reply saying that in most cases there is agreement between national authorities and local authorities, but that is not the question being raised here. What is important to clarify is what should happen in cases where there is no consensus between the views of national authorities — whether it be the government or others — and what is the local position. That is what we are invited to do – to make a clear and clear decision that the development of wind power should be in line with local and local government decisions, and that concession cannot be granted in breach of municipal government decisions. There is reason to recall, as several other representatives have done, the decision of the Progress Party only recently, at its own national meeting, entitled ‘Local connection to wind power development’, and one concluded with: «establishment of wind farms must be based on local connection by the municipalities concerned». Does it not have any value when it comes to the specific procedure in this case, and when the FrPs leave the meeting room and walk back into the black cars in which they are currently driving? Are decisions taken locally no longer of any value when one comes into a situation where interests are opposed? Therefore, one will be measured on what a vote for and against in this case. Is one involved in the assessment of natural resource taxes and in giving municipalities a veto?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2645	Concession and fiscal issues are important to discuss and develop. To what the representative Gülsvik here points out – the local disagreement versus a national consensus: the challenge today is that they have all, most of the municipalities, said yes. The challenge arises if the State wishes to say no. That's what the proposal of the Center Party doesn't take into account. A veto right to say no locally is introduced, but what happens when the state needs to say no? There is, of course, a lack in the proposal from the Central Party. So the professionalism that lies in the concession institute, we're not going to weaken. Locally, most people have said yes today, despite the fact that you may not have property taxes, and there is no natural resource tax, but they have said yes anyway. It's also a challenge. It has not been said that we should not set up a tax regime, but now a power tax committee has actually been set up to look at this. That's what we're saying: we're waiting to believe something about this until the selection has delivered its setting. Then we can come back and discuss both the property tax base locally and the arrangement for a type of natural resource tax, so that more of the value creation becomes local again. But until now it has not been a discussion. Many concessions have been granted, and there are many local authorities who have said yes – despite that. So to the national framework plan, it's time we got it. It highlights some of the challenges we face, because parts of the country do not have a single windmill, while it is, among other things, a windmill. in Rogaland, south of the Jären in Bjerkreim, which we have been looking at. These are concessions that have already been granted, and the inhabitants have already had enough – and more needs to be built. These include: because the technology is now developing so rapidly that the wind turbines are much higher and the effect much better. It also means something in terms of the sound level and how often they go. So there's every reason to better regulate this. We must do that by developing the concession institute, but not by introducing the right of veto that the centre party here is calling for today, and by looking at tax opportunities. One must also look at the national distribution: who is left with the consequences – and also distribute them? In the context of the national framework plan, there is good reason to discuss which areas are to be developed, or not expanded, because this is not a development plan; it is a framework plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2654	The center party doesn't have to be afraid. The Party of Advancement and the Council of State are following local self-government. There are no concessions that have no local connection. What confuses me a little bit is whether the centre party is for or against windmills, because the representative Pollestad says he's for windmills, while the representative Toppe says she's against windmills. I'm a little confused, because I went into the center part.no and looked for a little bit in old windmills. Then I found out that it's the Center Party that's really the wind power phantom in this room, and that's wind power warriors of the first degree. There they write that they are disappointed with the government’s lack of wind. Time is short, they even write. Furthermore, the article complains that Norway is building too little wind power in relation to Sweden. Then they write: here the Minister of Oil and Energy has to thank you. They also wrote that when the Senterpartiet was put in the red-green government, the scheme of green certificates was introduced to establish a more renewable power situation. The representative Pollestad went to the elections a few years ago to build 1,000 windmills in Rogaland alone. Until two months ago, in March, there have been positive articles on wind power on the Centre Party website. Then suddenly there appeared an article from the representative Toppe, where it said: Another thing is whether wind power is actually the new, big, green force rate that Norway needs. Talk about meeting yourself at the door.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2669	The reason why I took the word was the foundation from the left so that they won't go in for the municipalities to have a veto right, that is, that they had to have a veto right for development. There's a lot of things to listen to. There's a big difference between whether it's going to be expanded, and whether it's not going to be built out. This isn't related at all. The center party is for windmills, but if you had read a little bit further on the home page of the Center Party, you would have seen that most of the things that said about this were about sea wind. There's a significant difference. But we are, in fact, also for windmills on land where it is justified. Had the multiples here said that one wanted the municipalities to have a veto right, one would have had a peace of mind about this scheme. Had one in addition had a basic tax in place, so that the municipalities put on something, it would have been willing to expand where it makes sense. It doesn't seem like the Left has got the discussions in the West lately, where the municipalities after the municipalities are afraid that it will be expanded against their will. That's why I get this temperature in these cases. Therefore, we could have laid a good foundation for further development by ensuring that if there was municipal resistance to it, it was not developed. Then you could have had a much better discussion about this, on a real basis. It's especially when a party says it won't expand without municipal support, but it won't adopt it anyway. Then I'm not sure what is really the basis for what they say.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2681	The representative of Nils T. Bjørke may not say ‘you’ to the representative of Gisle Meininger Saudland.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2686	What we are discussing in this matter is not a question of a principle yes or no to wind power, but a question of the framework of wind power development. To the representative, Kjeseth, who says that there is a deficiency in the argument of the Central Party when we are in favour of a municipal veto in saying no to the development, but not the opposite – that if there is a local desire, one should say yes in any context: No, on the contrary, that is a very sensible position. In those cases where there is local resistance, and the examples are becoming more and more around Norway, one should say no, then the municipality has a veto right. However, if a municipality has agreed to a concrete extension, there may still be arguments that one should not carry out that extension, based on the considerations that are being made in the course of the process. It is a wise and thoughtful position that will help to reduce conflicts, not build them up, as one does per day. Because what's happening today? Indeed, local communities, by community, experience that they have development projects where foreign actors come in, where they do not receive any value creation related to local taxation, and where the flow produced is to be sent out of the country through new foreign tables planned by the government as pure export cables. It's the reality you're having today, and it's making the resistance to the projects that they're doing. That is why it is important to put in place a new framework and make clear policy decisions in this room that in those cases where there is no localisation, where the municipalities concerned say no, one should not go further with the project. To the question of natural resource tax and that one does not want to go into it in concrete terms today: what we are inviting the Stortinget to do is not a concrete design of a natural resource tax, but to decide on the principle – that one should have a local tax, that values should benefit local communities. Then you have to have an investigation into the concrete design in retrospect. It is very important and an important part of the package that can make communities feel that they are actually being taken seriously, that they are being valued, and that when they go in to contribute their valuable resources to the community, something should also come back to them. That is why I would once again encourage the vote in favour of the proposal of which the Central Party is part in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2695	The development of wind power is a very hot matter in many states, also in my home country. This applies both to Finnskogen and North Odal. I don't think people who stand up in it would have been particularly impressed by part of the debate that's been taking place here now, talking about what someone did five or eight years ago. This is a matter in which I believe the Stortinget and the authorities have simply not had the framework conditions in place in time. Here, a lot of concessions have been granted without a complete overview of the consequences. I think everyone can admit that. That is why we have now tried to put down some posts for this work. There are many positive aspects of producing green force from wind, but there is also a great pressure on nature, which threatens us in the same way as the climate damage. There is no doubt that this includes major natural interventions where they happen – very large natural interventions. It should at least be so that the communities concerned had something left. What I see in the local issues is that when you start the development and get exemptions from the plans that are there, there are always changes. There are always bigger windmills – sometimes a little less, but they're always bigger. It is different from what the local authorities have agreed to in the first place, and a lot of people feel cheated because they have not had enough information about the matter when they have had it for the first time. I have also seen some of these foreign owners standing up and saying that they have been kind, because they have given money to the swimming pool or to the football court. That's not how it's going to happen. This must be done in such a way that, if this is established, there must be a safe income that the municipality can afford, not charitable gifts from a company established there. It is important that we, as magnification and the authorities, see the great responsibility we have to secure the important resources this is, for national ownership. It is absolutely necessary that we do so, because the expansions are now moving fast, and many of the local energy companies are not involved in these expansions – but it is the opposite of foreign companies. Therefore, it should be in everyone's interest that we do this, and I can't imagine that a single municipality would be against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2708	The representative Ketil Kjeseth has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment of up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2713	Yes, now we're governed by the red-green concession regimes, and we're experiencing the big turmoil that's out there. That's why we have announced a national framework plan. The Stortinget has ordered the government to do so. It's happening now, it's out for discussion. We're discussing the concession agency. The Council of State has also said that we need to assess this, including: to reduce the time limits over which the concession is granted and, if it is not extended, it must be withdrawn, for example: So this is what we're in discussions about already. In the case of the Tax Committee, the proportion of the revenue to be retained by the local authorities is reduced and is in the process of being determined. So this is going to happen to a great extent. The discussion here today is about whether or not you are in favour of that right of veto and whether it applies only to ‘no’ or ‘yes’. What we're saying is you can't differentiate a veto right.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2722	The representative Arne Nävra has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2727	The representative of Andersen was quite right. That's the frames, the poles we're trying to put down here. We were early out setting limits for the hydropower. We managed to get to it, we rigged it right. We were early out to get the Community values from the oil in as well. We got it into the community values. What about wind? That's what we're discussing here now. We think we should do the same thing to the sea. It's a resource we're going to share - the fish and the sea are going to be the community's property. We will also present a proposal for not long on fish farming, salmon farming, with the element that it will benefit the community, benefit local communities. Then I think that public ownership and right of return, the proposals we have now made, are a good thing on the road. What surprises me is this haste, that we can't take this inside.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2734	Now the representative Kjeseth was up and demonstrated exactly what I think people are pretty tired of hearing. If there is a problem with this legislation – and we see that it is – we have to do something about it. The government has also had the full opportunity to do so — if the representative had seen these problems. Now we're a little late outside, but it's well enough to get there in time, or be late as early as possible, as someone says, in this area. The question here is, why won't the Left join in and put these posts now, and say that we can agree on that? The representative says we are, but I don't have any faith in it until I see it black on white. It can go winter and spring, and then there is even more that is determined, and that it is difficult to get control in this way. The more people that are being expanded now, the stronger interests there will be that we are opposed to regulating this in the way we now propose. Both national and local interests will then be weakened, and that is SV against.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2741	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2757	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that – within the allocated speaking time – up to six rows of replies are given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2766	The Committee strongly agrees with the situation description of the night and offer, that Norwegian train AS owns 20 sleeping cars, all of which have been put into service. This means that it is not possible to increase the number of night-time services within Norway or against Europe without ensuring the availability of several night-time wagons. That's one of the situations. The Committee also states that it is concerned that today’s night wagons are being exploited to the greatest extent possible, and calls on the government to look at the possibilities for increased use of today’s night wagons. And there is more consensus: an overall committee also stresses the desirability of a good and flexible train offer, and is basically in favour of all initiatives to develop today's offer. The Committee is fully aware that there have been direct trains from Oslo to Copenhagen and Hamburg in the past, but that passengers today are dependent on changing trains in Gothenburg to get to the continent. So I put on the SV hat and can talk about SV's opinions on this matter. First of all, I would like to thank the Green Party and Une Bastholm, who have raised an important issue. In this, we're brothers of arms. SV believes that it is the train that should be the gateway to Europe, not airplanes or passenger cars. There is a great potential for developing train provision from Norway towards Europe. Oslo–Stockholm and Oslo–Copenhagen are among Europe’s most busy flight routes – we know this – and without a sufficiently competitive train offer. That's it. I must remind you that SV and the entire opposition proposed KVUs for new routes to Stockholm and Gothenburg a while ago. It was downhearted. But there's a lot that can be done on the existing old rails as well. It is almost incomprehensible that the train offer between Oslo and Copenhagen has become worse in recent decades. Let it not be the slightest doubt that the railway party SV wants a new big bet on the train offer to the continent. Domesticly, the number of sleeping cars is high in order to increase night availability on trains. SV has proposed 60 million in its alternative state budget. to acquire new sleeping cars. In addition, there is a need to provide lower-priced sleeping space, by splitting and creating more sleeping places in some compartments, among others. for families. We'll see if we can put these fine words and the consensus on the situation description in the committee into practice at the budget procedure for the autumn, because very much is written there. I want to address all the suggestions that SV is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2789	The representative Arne Nävra has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2794	The proposers argue that people want to contribute to cutting their own greenhouse gas emissions and indicate that the demand for sustainable travel options is increasing. In recent years there has been a steady growth in the number of train journeys, and since 2013 the number of passengers has increased by more than 10 million. More people use the train to and from work and in leisure. Proposalers assume that it is expensive to travel by night and in Norway today and that there is a poor offer. They also point out that it is impossible to travel by night and night between Oslo and Europe. It is not difficult to join the initial description. I also notice the relatively juicy criticism of today's train offer contained in the proposal. It is the train operators who have to decide on the train offer within the financial framework they have at all times. Ultimately, there is a question of what market demand will determine what operators will offer. But it is also a question of whether Vy AS has been able to read the customer needs. Today, they offer four-way sleeping cars: Oslo-Trondheim, Oslo-Kristiansand-Stavanger, Oslo-Bergen and Trondheim-Bodø. Today the Norwegian train AS owns the rolling stock and the company has 20 sleeping wagons, all of which have been put into service. On 15 December this year, Go-Ahead will take over the operation of the train. Southern Railway. This is one of today's night trips. The South train will be an innovation and will also give Vy real competition on quality. It will be interesting to see how the new company will further develop the offer of this route. The company has set a high target in terms of growth and won the tender in its offensive position. We have similar expectations, of course, for SJ Norway when they drop on the northern routes. The majority assume that the increased number of passengers is the result of a gradual escalation of the railway operation over the last few years. Much investment is made in new infrastructure in the form of rails and train equipment. 100 new train sets have been put into service since the government took over in 2013. There is also a greater focus on the maintenance kit run. This builds up under the three main elements that contribute in particular to growth: increased frequency, better regularity and increased capacity. We assume that a key challenge in the future is to increase capacity in line with demand. The case also contains proposals for better train connections with Europe. This is a repetition. I have been an active participant in the regional studies on challenges and opportunities on the Oslo–Stockholm and Oslo–Gøtebörg–Copenhagen sections for ten years. It always stops when it is brought up at national level. The red-green government chose not to answer the question. Finally, there is a priority between national and international needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2807	It is not often I agree with the Greens, but now I have to say that with regard to the intention of this proposal, it is actually very good. The Green Party has the same objectives as the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, namely to facilitate more people travelling by train. But the Greens have obviously not realised that the government has been working for six years precisely to get more people to travel by train. In fact, the investment, the reorganisation and the competitive outsourcing we are now working on has contributed to a substantial increase in train travel, and everything suggests that the growth in the number of train passengers will continue in the future as well. Since we joined the government in 2013, the number of passengers has increased by over ten million. And it's not just an increase in commuters, it's also an increase in the use of trains as a means of transport in leisure. In addition, we have purchased 100 new train sets. We have increased frequency, increased regularity and increased capacity, and all this has contributed to more people choosing the train. In terms of better night and night services, we do not need to adopt the content of that offer in detail at Stortinget. The train operators themselves must be able to control this. The detailed train offer must be able to facilitate them within the economic framework they have and within the overall political leadership. Consequently, I would like to remind the Greens that the tenders we are currently making are precisely designed to set minimum requirements to ensure that the offer to train passengers is at least as good as it is today, and preferably even better. For Traffic Package 2 North, it is e.g. the whole of 171 demands for quality, and SJ, which won the tender, will help to make the night and night offer on the Dovrebane actually better, just as the Greens demand the Environment Party. SJ Norway has several improvements to offer, including: route offer improvements, further development of the train-by-bus concept, establishment of a low-cost calendar and dynamic pricing of tickets. This is common in the aviation industry. They want an upgraded serving offer and not least a premium offer on a long-distance train, where you can have lunch, where you have a coffee buffet, and where there is access to a lounge both in Trondheim and in Oslo. Better solutions for travellers with special needs will also be achieved with SJ. This isn't really revolutionary. This is actually a matter of course in all markets where there is competition. For example, in aviation it is common. With the Socialists from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV in power, state and other public monopolies have been protected from competition and given customers a lower offer. We are now clearing this up and making sure that there is competition, so that it is better to travel by train in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2824	We have heard in many debates about the deployment of the railways, and there have been strong leadership from the Stortinget through the NTP to strengthen the railways. These proposals are about getting down to the grass again. These are suggestions that describe in detail some offers that you absolutely do not think are good enough. That is why we in the Centre Party are supporting the proposals promoted by the Greens – I think we sometimes have good things to talk about and not just say that someone else has a responsibility, or that something should be done about it in the future. Norwegian train AS owns today 20 sleeping cars, all of which have been used. This means that it is not possible to increase the provision of nighttime services within Norway or against Europe without ensuring the availability of several wagons. On this basis, the central party asks the government to go to the acquisition of several night services for the routes within Norway, as well as to facilitate the sharing of the cabin and to allow passengers to sleep after arrival, which is often very early in the morning. These are relatively simple requirements. It is very important that the night wagons are exploited as much as possible, and we encourage the government to look at the possibilities for increased use of today's night wagons. There have been regular routes, as mentioned earlier, from Oslo to Copenhagen and Hamburg, but today passengers depend on switching trains in Gothenburg to get to the continent. The centre party assumes that the government is in regular dialogue with the relevant actors in order to explore and find out how to implement these opportunities in practice, for opportunities it is certain. To further develop today's train provision is to do something about the current situation, while at the same time having a clear objective of strengthening train provision significantly in the long term. There is an increasing interest in trains and rail transport across Europe, and on many lines demand is far greater than the offer. It is gratifying that SJ felt much more interest than provided when they started their new train service between Oslo and Stockholm. While the size of the NTP has given clear signals that the network needs to be expanded and developed in order to significantly increase train provision in the future, action needs to be taken to strengthen train provision between Scandinavian and European cities on today’s line network. We are promoting various proposals that describe how this can be done. What's important to us in the Center Party is that you can get clear feedback that these offers are being worked on, and not just a general consideration that it's the train operators who have to be able to control this from their perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2841	There are a lot of good suggestions that clearly point to the need to improve train provision. Train provision has developed dramatically in recent years, especially in the domestic and eastern regions, where we have had many more departures, and train passenger numbers have increased dramatically. But on the long distances – Stavanger, Bergen, Trondheim and up to Bodø – you may have stagnated something. It has to do with the fact that the line capacity and the design have been too poor, and that it has taken too long, so that planes have actually competed out much of the passenger base. Unfortunately, none of these proposals can do anything about it — perhaps replace many of the flights, which are one of the worst in greenhouse gas emissions, with these measures. But of course, the market should have picked up these signals, and I have to say that both readings about train offers, which I follow closely, and the answers from the train operators are not always as good, so to speak, when you owe it to one and the other for why you haven't improved the train offer. It may be especially night and night that have been very much discussed. It is clear that a system of sharing sleeping cars, so that you could get several passengers, had not given more money to Vy, but it had actually increased the number of passengers and perhaps customer satisfaction. So to the rest of the world, we had also hoped that there could have been a greater interest on the part of the train operators in order to get the foreign connections, to put it straight, more on the rails – especially down to Copenhagen, where we see it being heavy both because you have to switch to Gothenburg, and not least when it comes to obtaining tickets. It is difficult to obtain tickets. I have a hope that we will now be able to handle this once we have got Entour as a ticket company. I have to say that I almost think it is strange that they are not handling it already today, but the proposals today give a clear signal that operators may have to tighten up in responding to market needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2852	A former big politician who, in his old days, was asked what he was most proud of, replied: "We understood the time we lived in, and thus we also got the uproar in elections. We also need to understand the time we live in, and I think the demand for train travel is going to increase considerably. The train gets a new spring. There is a greater interest in driving by train and using the railway. Earlier today I got a reminder on Facebook that one year ago I was driving trains between Berlin and Brussels. I had completed a mission in Berlin and went on to Brussels and chose the train. It took quite a while, but I chose it instead of air traffic and mass back and forth to airports, and could sit and work on the train between Berlin and Brussels. A few weeks ago, the Workers' Party transport fraction visited Stockholm. We also chose to take the train. Planes had gone faster, but you have to go to the airport, wait for trains, land at the next airport and then enter the city. It is comfortable to run trains, and many choose to run trains even if it takes a little longer. Then I think we also have to admit that there was a reason that the train between Oslo and Copenhagen was shut down: there was simply little demand for those trains. At the same time, there was a huge change in the flight offer. You could fly Oslo-Copenhagen for maybe NOK 399, and then just competed the plane out of the train. I think, as I started with, the time has come to go back to more trains. I am happy to be in Berlin quite often, and I have been working on the idea whether it is possible to take the train from Oslo to Berlin once I go to the meeting. That's it. I can take trains from Oslo S at. 07.01 a.m., and I'm at Berlin Hauptbahnhof at 7:00 a.m. 22.23. So it takes more than 12 hours to drive trains between Oslo and Berlin, but that's possible. Of course, it is possible to shorten the journey time, of course it is possible to develop better train connections, at least Oslo – Stockholm, Oslo – Gothenburg and Oslo – Copenhagen. That's future, and I'm absolutely sure it's going to be greater demand for. That is why the Workers' Party is also involved in a proposal that when we are going to roll the national transport plan, this is a question we should address there: simply add up to an increased commitment to train provision between Norway and Scandinavian and European cities.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2869	Only today there are 23 departures by plane from Trondheim to Oslo. There's four trains running. Trains are climate friendly, it is pleasant, and never before have several travelled by train. Nevertheless, trains lose in competition with aircraft when we nordics travel more and more. Since 2005, Norway has doubled air traffic and the routes between Oslo and Trondheim, Bergen and Stavanger are among Europe’s most traffickers. On all these routes trains can be a good alternative, but today train capacity is detonated. If you need to travel by night, it is extra difficult. The cabins are sold out a long time in advance, it's expensive, and there's no room for more than two people per cabin. Today we only have 20 sleeping cars throughout Norway. Half of the passengers in Norway are business travellers. When we know that night and night travel can replace many job trips by aircraft, that air travel has huge greenhouse gas emissions, and that nightogens today have undercapacity, it is urgent with political commitment to ensure a better offer. The size must aim to develop a night and night service that actually reduces the number of take-offs by flights between major cities in Norway and between Norway and Europe. Because between Oslo and Europe it is impossible to travel by night train. In the 1990s it was both morning trains and night trains from Oslo to Hamburg, and in the 2000s it was expressive to Copenhagen, but today we have to go through several train exchanges. Several European countries are now betting on the train, including intends to establish night and night for several European major cities. We can be a part of this bet. We can cooperate with the Swedes and get to Berlin for the night and night. We cannot wait for the next national transport plan to bet on the night train. We need several sleeping cars now, and we need to be able to buy a ticket in a divided cabin. To Europe it has to be easier to find and order train trips, we need more departures or maybe just better coordination with the Swedes sometimes, and we need direct trains, so you can wake up in a European big city. Afterwards, Stortinget will discuss whether to build three new Rolls Royce motorways that will cost extremely much, ruin nature and lead to even more tolls. We believe that we should rather develop a train offer that allows us to leave the car and the plane when we want to, and take the train instead.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2886	We are in a time when the railway effort is greater than in many decades – the biggest investment in infrastructure since 1962, when we completed the Nordlandsbahn. The allocations for railway investment, operation and maintenance have increased by 80 pst. since 2013. Not only do we invest massively in infrastructure, we spend more money on keeping up with the infrastructure we already have, but we also spend a lot of money, capital and energy on improving train provision by buying more material and setting up more train departures. We are building a train offer for the future and making sure that the railway becomes a competitive alternative in areas where there are a lot of people, which allows people to choose to travel by train because it gives the simplest commuter journey for many. But we also have challenges. We have challenges with the capacity of old infrastructure, which was too bad luck just when we took over, and where it was invested too little for several decades in advance of 2013. This means that the capacity challenge is also great when it comes to night and night services. I understand that the Green Party has good intentions with this proposal, but it is now time that when we have little capacity in the infrastructure, it becomes a paradox when the Stortinget suggests that a route be set up between Oslo and Berlin, completely without any market analysis of what it is going to be like to get passengers on that train, completely without taking over the fact that it can distort train provision that we need even more, if we are to get more people to choose the train every day. That's what makes the pluralist parties today reject these proposals – not because we don't need to continue the further development we're in on the Norwegian railway, because we have to do that, not because we're not going to need to increase the capacity of train equipment in the future, but we have to take it in the right order, so that we actually achieve what this government has done in these years, simply to move more and more passengers from car to rail in Norway. As a result, a work is also taking place – hopefully completed by the autumn – to look at how we can improve the provision of night and night passengers in Norway. Sometimes when one sees such representative proposals, it understands that there are good intentions. It helps little when the suggestions for the seventh and last do not hang up together. If we're going to have a positive development on the Norwegian railway, we have to continue to invest, continue to buy new material, but also remember that when we have too little capacity, we have to set up most train departures where there are most passengers, instead of where we have the most political ambitions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2906	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2911	We in the Center Party believe in a climate policy where we can facilitate people to make climate-smart choices, and an example of that is to get more people to take trains instead of flying. At the same time, we know that the sleeping cars have high coverings – it is an attractive way to travel. When this is combined with the fact that several flights in Norway are among Europe’s most trafficked, it tells us that several sleeping cars are a completely concrete and easy way to bring down climate change emissions. So I heard the Council say capacity is important, it's important that operators take an initiative, it's important to carry out analyses, it's important to plan, and it's important to have all these assumptions to give a clear answer. Nevertheless, I choose to ask a very specific question: How will the Council of State ensure that we have more sleeping cars on the Norwegian railway system, so that more people can take a night trip and with it ensure a more climate-friendly travel pattern in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2918	That's what I'm going to do - point 1: if we need it - point 2: in the order that new material is needed. It's not been given that there is an increase in capacity at night and we need it first. Some of the commuter trains, local trains, that are running, also need an upgrade. We're going to keep ordering it. We do that by providing the residual value guarantee for the trains purchased, we do that by making them available to the train companies. Through the enormous reforms that have been carried out by this government – which also contributed to increased competition, more train departures, new companies finding new business models – and not least to the freeing of capital that results, we are going to be able to continue to develop Norwegian railways where the Central Party would have adhered to the old state monopolies.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2923	What's a bit of my point is that in order to do simple actions in a huge organization to which billions of dollars are allocated, some people have to be able to make a decision relatively quickly. The government has long aimed at putting out passenger services on trains in Norway, and Vy Train, of which the State Council is the sole owner, is one of the tenderers who have lost the first two competitions. Now, when his own company, the state company, is not well enough rigged to win the competition to continue driving trains in Norway, what kind of freedom of action does the Council of State have to quickly get in place offers that customers demand – not just night and night, it can be quite simple – when everyone other than his own company is going to carry passengers?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2930	The question from the Permanentraune representative is quite revealing how the left-hand side of Norwegian policy actually resonates. So there is no question of whether there is a commercial basis for an offer, there is no question of how many passengers will have new material and new vehicles to use on a journey by train that is the decisive thing for the representative Fasterøne – that is how the country will deal with any problems. There is now a great basis through these offers to improve the route provision. We see that the new actors are here. If it is SJ who finally wins the offer for Traffic Package 2, it actually means that there will be from three to five daily departures between Oslo and Trondheim: increasing capacity because one thinks it is a commercial basis for it. I have also explained in the past that Vy and other train companies would like to buy material, including sleeping cars, put it into service if there is a commercial basis for doing so. That is what will happen in the future for the Norwegian railway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2939	As I said in my post, I think the time is ripe – overdue, maybe – to develop the train offer and get a better train offer in the Nordic region. The Nordic Council has also worked to improve train provision between the Nordic countries, between the Nordic cities, so this is coming – it's just a question of how quickly we can get it in place. SJ experienced great success when they started their new train service between Oslo and Stockholm. Now there are quite a few encumbrances there because there is a change of overhead line on the Kongsvingerbahn, but when that work is done, I think SJ is going to put a lot of money back on the traffic between Oslo and Stockholm. But – as has also been mentioned earlier – between Oslo and Copenhagen, it is therefore not possible today to drive trains without having to change in Gothenburg. My question to the Minister for Transport is: Could he imagine taking an initiative towards his Swedish and Danish colleagues, so that we get trains between Copenhagen and Oslo again?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2948	In principle, I think there must be a commercial basis for this if you want to see a cross-border traffic, but I agree with the representative Myrli that closer Nordic cooperation at political level can also help solve some of the bottlenecks that arise in the systems, and lay the foundation for it. So the answer to the question is a short yes. It is such an initiative that the government has taken and will continue to accept our colleagues in our neighbouring country. So the representative can use that as a basis. At the same time, when the representative is in a line change here, I will pay tribute to the Workers' Party, which, in dealing with this matter, actually makes sense in principle – not political detailed guides each train should go, but ensure that an infrastructure builds up and continues to invest, which also allows capacity growth on these types of journeys in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2955	Old worker chief Martin Tranmæl once said: The evening post writes nicely about me – what wrong have I done? The Minister of Transport talks nice about me – what wrong have I done? I take the rose from the Minister of Transport, but I want to go back to my previous question. I am pleased that at least the Minister for Transport does not refuse to talk to his Scandinavian colleagues about getting a better train offer between Scandinavian cities. My question is: who can actually take such initiatives, with the somewhat unbridled railway organisation we have today, with one company that owns the trains, and one company that maintains the trains – yes, a little different? Who can take the initiative if it is politically desirable to get a better train offer, for example: between Oslo and Copenhagen? What, in the view of the Minister of Transport, will be the job of commercial railway companies, and what will be the political authorities and, for example, what will be their job? the work of the three Ministers for Transport?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2964	The rail map in Norway is very easy to handle. You can only see where the primary tasks are. It's very clear. There are several actors who can take such initiatives. It's possible to take pure political initiative and buy wolfish services, for example, as we do on a lot of our train network today. It's becoming less and less wretched, just enough, as we get out the packages on offer, but it's possible to initiate government purchases of such services. We can do that, for example. from the political side. Various operators operating on Norwegian, Swedish or Danish railways may take such initiatives. It could be Vy, it could be SJ or other company that thinks it's a commercial basis, that could take such initiatives. The railway directorate may also take such initiatives if they think it makes sense to look at a coherent route offering that strengthens both the Norwegian railway system and the possibility to travel further by train in intercontinental terms.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2969	I actually had some specific questions to the Council of State, but I put them away because I reacted to the Council's position on the opposition and the proposals in the matter. I feel that we have a role to play in the parliamentary system. I don't want to call it rolling, but at least he creates a picture of the proposals – that they don't hang in the hop, as he said. They cannot be carried out; they are almost removed from the air. There are many of these proposals that are completely concrete, and which he could have given political signals about, but which he does not. He chooses in his introduction rather to attack the entire opposition. What does the Council of State mean? Does not the opposition have a political role in setting out a direction for what the opposition believes, so that the Council of State is able to deal with it? And what is the role of the politician, and what is the role of the operator when deciding what is related to Norwegian transport?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2977	I thought the representative Nävra had a precise definition of these proposals – they did not hang together. That's what I'm still saying. I think one of the suggestions I made was a good example of that. My political assessment of these questions – each single proposal – was given to the Storting in the form of a letter when they addressed the questions to me through their committee work. If you read the answers to the questions asked, you will see the political assessment of each of these proposals. When I say that this does not hang together, it is because the proposals in sum lack the basic understanding that the Norwegian railway had more capacity if we had come further on the investment side than we have done. We didn't get there. That means that if we say politically that we're going to use our capacity, for example. In and out of Oslo, to supply Sweden, Denmark and Germany, even when it is not a commercial basis, passenger traffic will be affected domestically.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2984	I will relieve the Council of State so that he does not have to respond to the whole of the proposals of other parties, by asking questions about only one of the proposals. More than half of the sleeping accommodation in Norway is provided with an empty bed. On the question of why you can't buy a ticket to a shared voucher, as you could in the past, the Vys press chief replied on 29 May: ‘The demand has been so high that we have had no desire to develop any other offer than what is.’ It is a little remarkable and tells us a little about the strange competitive situation of the railway, because trains have competition – mainly between big cities – from aircraft. These are the flights we see increasing most in scope. Not that he should be detailed, but does the Council of State agree that it is an important social responsibility and in the interests of society that more people choose trains instead of aircraft, and that it is therefore also in the interests of society to make it easier to share a coup, so that trains do not run with free beds that customers want to use?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e2996	The answer to that is yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3001	Replicate cord shift complete. The following speakers also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3008	I would like to thank the Greens for bringing forward this proposal. I thought it was an important matter. There are simple, concrete and practical suggestions that will make a difference for those who want to travel by train in Norway. The problem is simple: we have 20 sleeping cars to be distributed throughout Norway, and if you want to strengthen the overnight supply, there must actually be several sleeping cars. The proposal for a representative is about both a train and night work between Norway and other European cities, which the centre party will also vote for, but the most important thing for me is proposal No. 6, where it says that one must give priority to train provision between the cities of Norway. This applies to Bergen-Oslo, Trondheim-Oslo and not least to Stavanger-Oslo. I hear representatives from the Progress Party say one has been working for six years to get more people to travel by train. Why, then, has it never been harder to travel by night and night in Norway? I traveled frequently with the night train between Bergen and Oslo, perhaps once a week. Now I might do it once a month. It is totally impossible to get a night ticket if you do not order one month before and that is the way it should not be. I hear representatives from the government party say that Stortinget should not mean anything about night and night. Take a trip to the West, take a trip to Voss and listen if people are not busy with the night and the offer, unless the Storting should make any sense about it when you have experienced a clear deterioration in the last few years? The answer you get when asking the train operators is well known. Norway is at the top of Europe when it applies to aircraft domestic routes. In 2015, Værnes–Gardermoen was fourth place in Europe, Flesland–Gardermoen was seventh place, and Sola–Gardermoen was eleventh place. That means that there would be a huge climate gain if a strengthened train supply between the largest cities in Norway. As the Green Party representative also said, there are a lot of business trips in this area, and there are a lot of people who want to be able to travel by night train as an alternative to an early flight. We support these proposals. It's good with a three-bed slipper and sleeping out in the morning, but the most important thing is that there's actually a train to travel with, and that it's possible to get several sleeping cars on the train routes between the biggest cities in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3023	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3039	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to six replies from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3048	Thank you to the Committee for good cooperation in this matter. We have to treat today's Prop. 81 S for 2018–2019, Financing and expansion of E18 on the Langangen–Dørdal section in the municipalities of Porsgrund and Bamble in Telemark. The project covers the development of approx. 35 km of four-field road with a speed limit of 110 km/h. Sub-area E18 Ruggtvedt – Dørdal is under construction and this proposition will ensure funding for the entire Langangen-Dørdal route. The project is part of KVU/KS1 for E18 Langangen-Grimstad. In St.meld. No 33 for 2016–2017, National Transport Plan 2018–2029, will highlight the need for a coherent four-field road on the entire Oslo–Kristiansand route. This will significantly improve road safety and shorter travel time, which is important for both food and passenger transport. The expansion will take place under the direction of New Vegar AS. New Vegar AS has the task of developing parts of the main road network faster and more cost-effectively, and in this project, New Vegar AS has reduced development costs by 10 pst. This will benefit users in the form of lower bomb tariffs. This applies to both passenger and heavy transport. In this proposition, an expected cost for the E18 Langangen-Dørdal project is assumed to be 11.5 billion. 2019-kronor, where the contribution from the government is 7 billion. Tolls and tolls amount to 4,4 billion. kr. There is local political agreement from Porsgrund and Bamble municipalities, and the Telemark County Municipality has agreed to provide a guarantee for the borrowing of the toll company. The financial facility is based on two automatic toll stations on a new road, and toll collection is provided in both directions. Toll collection has been grounded for 15 years in each section of the bomb. There is also a local political commitment that low- and zero-emission cars pay when national rules on that debt. This follows the decision to collapse in the treatment of Prop. 87 S for 2017-2018. There is a joint committee, with the exception of the Socialist Left Party, which is behind the recommendation to adopt the proposition as it has been put forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3061	This is a matter we should have dealt with a few weeks ago. It is a project with a speed limit of 110 km/h and the project will be built by Nye Weier. This is an extension of the road project that municipalities have been waiting for a long time. However, we note that one in local policy treatment said that a primary wish E18 built with 100 pst. State funding. The Progress Party says that it approves projects with local political support. However, local and regional politicians are told by New Roader that if they do not accept tolls, the money goes to another road project elsewhere in the country. So the choice is tolls or no way. The project has quite rightly a total cost of 11.5 billion. NOK, but in addition, when you talk about a toll percentage, interest and collection costs of a total of SEK 1.75 billion. kr. So it's going to be 6.2 billion. kr to be included in tolls, not SEK 4,3 billion. kr. It's going to be a toll fraction of almost 50 pst. In addition, the Swedish Road Administration has an objection to this case. They disagree with New Roads and require a larger cross and two additional fields. It could provide a new first reading and consultation with many years of delay. According to New Weger, such a solution will cost the project between 800 million. DKK and 1 billion. kr. It will also not be possible to set up a bomb where one really should, and one might have to start with a state plan. I hope that the Council of State can explain how to finance such extra costs. In our remarks, we refer to a previous proposal we have had to discuss the issue of road pricing. We believe it is high time to go through the toll system. Too much money now goes to operations and financial costs, and the citizens experience this as unfair. We have the following proposal on the matter: 'The Government asks the Government to assess the total amount of the guarantee for toll projects that Telemark county councils are entitled to bear'. I shall therefore refer to proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox We also support the proposal No. 3 to the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3076	Then the representative Kirsti Leirtrø teke has drawn up what the Labour Party proposal is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3081	The proposition we're dealing with now, deals with the E18 Langangen–Dørdal, and it's okay to have some history. According to the Norwegian motorway plan of 1962, the route was to have a full four-field road in 1980. The most unfortunate thing happened in 1996 when someone built it today. A two- and three-field road was built. I notice that SV wants to build parts of this section as a two- and three-field road. I just want to remind Stortinget that quite a lot of the distance is built out as a quadruple road already – and opens in December. That means you might have to dig up a lot of what's built right now. Otherwise, the rest of the route is two- and three-field road today, which the Progress Party strongly warns against. On two- and three-field roads, we have seen that there is a high frequency of accidents and some of the most dangerous things you can drive on. People in the Central East region deserve a new, safe and secure four-field road. I notice that it is important to have a principle debate in this room, and I would like that – I would like to welcome it. With the company Nye Veier – only on the three projects we are dealing with today – we save 8 billion. kr, which benefits society. That means it's 8 billion. kr more we can reinvest in more, safe and secure ways. The centre party even believed that New Veger was an airlock, and that it was putting transport policy back decades in time. The Workers' Party said it was building a new State Road Service, so there was no need to create New Roads. No, on the portfolio that the company was awarded when it was established, at 530 km, it is almost 30 billion. kr saved – a win versus the Statens vägvesen. This is the security, security and efficient and sensible use of taxpayers' money. For tolls: Tolls are not happy with tolls. There is no blank victory for the Progress Party. However, thanks to the Progress Party, the share of tolls has generally declined in the national transport plan projects, and New Roads show that they can build much, much more reasonably than the state road system. When the Progress Party is attacked because there are tolls, I would like to remind you of what has been said by central workers' party people, among other things. Sverre Myrli, head of the fractional division, that there will be no less collection total this year with the Workers' Party in the future. If you later try to imagine the voters that the Workers' Party is against tolls, it's completely wrong. If I believe Oslo Arbeiderpartis Raymond Johansen, he has sent a greeting not so many days ago: those who oppose tolls have nothing to do in the Workers' Party. So a certain honesty I expect today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3094	This is a section divided into two projects – Rugtvedt-Dørdal, under construction, and Langangen-Ruchtvedt, where a municipal plan and impact assessment have been adopted. The project covers the development of approx. 35 km at a speed limit of 110 km/h. We support this proposal. We know that there is a long-term project that people are looking forward to is going to get started. E18 Ruggtvedt – Dørdal, under construction, will be opened for traffic in December 2019. Toll financing of that project was already adopted in Stortinget in 2015-2016. There's a local political connection that we in the Center Party are very clear on is important. The municipality of Telemark has also decided to provide a guarantee for the toll company's borrowings. There is an annual traffic of between 10000 and 11000 vehicles per day. Today's road has varying standards with a lot of edge construction and many crossings and departures. Removing these crossings would be positive for road safety and would be more conducive to pure cultivation of the road as a passageway. A speed limit of 110 km/h has been applied throughout the journey, but it may be applicable at a lower speed limit on a small part of the journey. There is a need for a continuous four-field clear route throughout the Oslo–Kristiansand route. There's no doubt about it. This will significantly improve road safety and reduce travel time, which is important both for business transport and not least for passenger transport in the corridor. Nevertheless, I have noted, with great amazement, that both the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left believe it is important to ensure a smoothing of the unfair distribution of user payments in today's toll system. It is referenced in the setting. It is necessary to consider how new technologies in vehicles and traffic management can help to replace today's tolling system with a more efficient, fairer and fair solution. Understand the one who can – this must well be called advanced road pricing, which is not mentioned in a single word at all when the government council of strong order goes into the strup of the Workers' Party in the media and describes the kind of solutions that fog talk. So the center part is worried about the increasing cost of the driving lists. On the route Stavanger-Kristiansand-Oslo the total toll load will be very high. When all the road projects are completed, there's going to be a toll percentage that's so big that it's really going to hurt. In our revised national budget, we are going to cut some of these – something that is not done by the government in a similar way. Finally, I should like to mention proposal No. Three, from the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3107	Then the representative Bengt Fasteraune has drawn up the proposal of the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3112	SV chooses to describe its position on all three propositions we are going to deal with here today, by telling us a little about its view of tolls and motorways. We say yes to environmentally justified tolls in cities. That's point one. No to swollen environmental and expensive motorways to connect the country, that is the train to do. That's our mantra, we stick to it, and that's our point. Therefore: Save me for government crocodile tears over a lot of tolls. They are also large in the opposition; they are for the major motorway projects which require a lot of tolls – 15.6 billion. kr, probably close to 20 billion. kr today. And I'm going to refer to the government's own office, the State Road Service, National Road Investigation in 2015. There, the Vegvesenet had gone through all the national roads in Norway and looked at the need towards 2050. But the government will have more quadruple road and higher speed than the base of the state road investigation. That is why there was a new motorway plan. It contained exactly the same routes in a way, but then the costs were turned up by 459 billion. kr – versus 2050. In the national transport plan, the government changed the standard for new roads in Norway, from mainly two- and three-field roads to much more four-field roads with 110 km/h. What happened then? Listen: The cost increased from 644 billion. DKK to $105 billion – both in 2016-krona. This must be paid. The net transport-economic benefit of the motorway plan is minus 680 billion. NOK, if I have not read correctly. All of this is evident from the NTP material. The SV point is that the Progress Party is not the solution to the toll crisis, they are the problem. When they build motorways that increase car traffic towards Oslo, Bergen, Trondheim, and Kristiansand, they impose more toll on the motorists. Those tolls have voted against in Stortinget. Since 2013, SV has voted against motorway projects for a total value of 105 billion. kr, where the toll ratio is approx. 54 B.C.E. kr. Some of these projects we want to scrape completely – other downscalers. We will go against all the three propositions we are going to deal with here today and propose to replace them with a more sustainable plan for safe ways of use across the country. SV will continue to be the promoter of urban environmental agreements, urban growth agreements, which have become a milestone for good urban development in several ways. Gigantomania in motorway development means, at the same time, extensive degradation of valuable land, and it is a wretched environmental policy. Remember, energy consumption is increasing by 30-40 pst. from 80 km/h to 110 km/h. And you can also take that with you. I'll continue my line of argument in the next article.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3123	Should the representative take up the proposal from SV?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3128	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3134	Then the representative Arne Nävra has drawn up the proposal from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3139	The left has a great deal of respect for agreements and previous decisions we've been through. At the same time, when New Weger was created, they received a portfolio in which they were to assess the benefits of society and the economy, and progress was to be prioritised all the time – with orientation twice a year. Now we've come to this road project in their portfolio. It contains no surprises. It has a very common design and, not least, it has achieved much better social benefits by expanding to four-field roads and increasing speed. This is what brings great benefits to the social economy, that the construction of the route can be carried out much more quickly, especially for commercial traffic. It is commercial traffic that has the highest performance to be able to carry the goods faster. In addition, on several occasions — and research reports have shown — the safety of road structures in Norway has improved and improved. One of the reasons is that we've built four-field roads with midpoints. It suggests that it is good standard, good quality and a safe path we adopt today. It is very important to get the route E18 Oslo-Kristiansand with motorway standard. As I said, it is most important for business traffic. You can also carry parts of, but maybe not on the whole distance. SV is probably very right that you have to get a better train offer. But here there are a lot of people who also live in between. There may be good reasons to build in a distance. I just have to say to road pricing: on these projects almost road pricing has been used. So there's a bomb point here as the kilometers travel. That's exactly what road pricing is, that you pay by the length you drive and use the road. So I don't fully understand this. Modern technology is not quite there yet to actually get it to work, for example. with the satellite, but there's a good price on this project.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3152	Transport is the largest source of greenhouse gas emissions in Norway – 30 pst. of the emissions. That's 22 pst. higher than in 1990. Until 2018, emissions from transport increased by 3 pst. Of all types of transport, road traffic accounts for more than half of emissions. It has been raised beyond any doubt that in order for Norway to achieve its climate objectives, we need to reduce emissions from road traffic. However, on 13 June this year, the Labour Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Centre Party and the Progress Party voted against the Green Party's proposal to scale down large motorway projects from four-field roads to two- and three-field roads to save nature, increase road safety, cut emissions and cut toll costs. Without compromising, they also voted against a number of proposals to give priority to smart, sustainable mobility. Today, the same parties will vote for 15 billion. kr more in tolls to finance new motorways. That's weird. If the parties don't like tolls, it's just to vote against new large, expensive motorway projects. The representatives of Storting, who also believe that our climate crisis is something that we are responsible for and not our kids, have a vital reason to vote against these toll projects. Not to do that, but rather to vote for more highways, is to trick and mock the voters, especially the youngest ones, who are going to inherit the climate problems. One cannot believe that the climate is the biggest problem of our time and at the same time here in the hall today is fighting to build wider roads, which are competing trains and sucking money from more modern, sustainable projects. I must also say that the debate on tolls in ours has gone completely out of proportion. Drivers are now treated almost like a oppressed population in Norway — it is completely absurd. Until recently, there has been agreement between parties, municipalities, counties and states that urban toll stations are necessary and effective to reduce car traffic and to create living, inclusive and healthy cities throughout the country with fewer accidents, good collective provision and safe bicycle and pedestrian routes. There is a scandal that several of these urban packages are now being played. It is also a scandal that the Prime Minister’s own party cannot even stand firm and defend the objective of reducing car traffic into cities. I admit I'm in a minority. Today, the bulk of the population for increased natural interventions, for increased traffic, for increased emissions and for increased tolling costs are in favour. The Greens, of course, vote against the Greens.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3169	Today, we are dealing with a staggering proposition that many of our former dreams are being fulfilled, that is, the basis of a larger region of the economy and the labour market, shorter travel time and better road standards for the whole of Oslo–Kristiansand. Because that's what this is all about, our common ability to build the country. There are a lot of parties that are going to express themselves critically about these issues, which were concerned about it once in a while, but that's what the government is doing. Regional enlargement, shorter commuter distances, shorter travel time to work, larger bus and labour market regions that provide the basis for people to live and work throughout this country, faster travel life, safer roads when one gets to the middle of them – that's what this is all about. After we set up New Roads AS, for massive opposition protests, we see that we are able to combine more road construction with lower costs, higher social benefits – and with great grips to reduce tolls. We recognize that there are tolls in these matters. For those who have intended to spend the day bothering us with it: this recognition has been a doctor there since 2015, when the Stortinget decided what these projects would look like, who would be responsible for them, how it was to be expanded. We know this. What we've been working on since 2015 is to bring down the costs, which can also benefit the drivers, as it does on several of the projects we are dealing with today. If you do not want to pay tolls on the project you are currently dealing with, for example, you can run on the side road and not pay. It was never a particularly large theme when the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Swedish Government joined forces. It's not so strange when we hear the representative Nävra rails about how unnecessary it is to build the country closer together with the effective path, but it shows what kind of challenge it has been for a minority who have tried to fight for the lowest possible tolls in the future. I mean, it's a good day today. We're going to deal with three propositions that, in sum, we're going to build up modern four-field highways in much of the country, as contributing to regional enlargement, to the benefit of our business community, which is expanding our construction and labour market regions. This is a good day, and in this case a particularly good day for those who live in the region of Vestfold and Telemark, who have had a lot of bad roads and who are getting better and better way under this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3182	I would like to remind the Minister that the 'raljere' was previously referred to as a non-parliamentary expression. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3189	I was going to say something about tolls, but I just concluded that in the comments from the government parties, they claim the same thing as the Workers' Party, that it is important to ensure the harmonisation of the unfair distribution of user payments in today's toll system. I'll leave it and come back when we're going to discuss urban growth agreements. Much is currently unclear in the road sector. In this case, we have two state road trade authorities who say two different things, and you can risk that there will be a delay and an objection. How will the Council of State follow this up if there is an extra cost of approx. 1 billion. Do you really want to delete this item?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3196	So far, how we're going to pay extra costs has, fortunately, been a hypothetical problem for some of these projects. The cost development of many of these projects has gone the right way. The sum, as one of the representatives was in the past, of these three propositions collected is cost reductions in the order of 8 billion. kr. It is very often that the Storting is busy with the costs when they go up. Here they go down very much, and I hope that they will continue to do so, even through the development phase of these projects. This means that we have initially said, including on the Granavolden platform, that either the tolls are fixed on the project, or in the case of cost reductions in the project, the tolls are to be reduced. It's clear on the Granavolden platform, which is the basis for us having the government we have, and we're going to follow it up, of course, in these matters as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3201	In the project, it has already been said that the cost of tolls is 1.7 billion. to cover financing and collection costs. I ask the question in a different way: Will the toll ratio increase, or does a government part cover the financing and collection costs? Or should only the drivers take the extra charge?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3206	If you read the proposition we've sent to Stortinget, you'll see that we've created a financing plan. I have also done some good to ensure that the government platform clearly determines how we should handle this if the costs go one way or the other. I am absolutely sure that to the extent that we end up in such a situation, we will be able to work down the costs again, New Vegar has shown that they are fully capable of in a lot of projects. The Tompenge part will not go up in this project, we clarified it in the Granavolden platform, and it applies regardless of what kind of input the questioner has on the same question. The bombs will not join the project. If we can build cheaper, they'll go down.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3211	Now the Council of State has talked about the Granavolden platform, and then he has an opportunity today to initiate some of the things that are decided on in that platform, and turn it into concrete policy here in the main hall. In the revised budget, the government has the opportunity to further reduce the level of tolls by repaying and lowering the toll charge on those sections that are built at a lower price than budgeted. You actually have a chance to do that. You may also introduce a State guarantee on toll loans. All of this will reduce costs and make the drivers pay less money. The money saved on this, we believe, will benefit the drivers through reduced tolls. In our alternative revised national budget, we proposed to reduce tolls instead of withdrawing money into the treasury on several road projects that have been cheaper than expected. You chose something else, and that's in the sum of 430 million. kr. Is the Council of State even interested in bringing down the costs of the drivers?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3218	The answer to the last one is yes – despite the fact that the representative asks for something quite different from what we are dealing with today. I understand that very well. If I had been in the Center Party, I would also have tried to hide how the voting is today – when they try to stand up as toll opponents and vote for each penny every time there are toll propositions in the Stortinget. I had also tried to change the theme. But the answer is, yes, I'm busy reducing the tolls for the motorists. I am also busy reducing the overall tax burden on Norwegian motorists, as we have done in the government period we have behind us, and reducing their personal income tax – as opposed to the Centre Party, which is, after all, a tax-enhancing party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3226	This was a special answer, when you say that this is to be completely on the side of what the matter is about. I assume that the Council of State has registered that the Central Party has made a proposal in this matter that goes on this very thing. It's as concrete as it's supposed to be, it's not going to be more concrete, and it says: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that any cost savings in the project benefit the drivers through reduced tolls.’ That's what you've been talking about on the Granavolden platform. We've picked that up before, and now we're putting it as a concrete proposal in the Stortinget today, and then the question is, will you recommend yours here in the Chamber to vote for that proposal from the Central Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3236	The President would like to remind the representative that he must speak through the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3241	I would like to tell all the representatives – whether they are mine or not – here in the Chamber, to vote in favour of proposals that open doors, that is not the basis. We've explained in the proposition how we relate to these costs. It is clear from the staging proposition, it is clear from the setting, and I have also said from the spokesperson that the toll part is fixed, and in case of cost reductions, it is reduced. This is clear. The fact that the Centre Party has tried to come up with a last-minute proposal to get on the offensive in the toll debate – despite the fact that they have voted for a toll project in this Chamber – does not impress me, nor does it make me particularly concerned about recommending mine to vote for a proposal that is really a blow in the air.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3248	It's like if you're talking about that we've switched open doors, we're not in the Granavolden statement. That's where these doors you're talking about are turned on. We're promoting a proposal here in the main hall that's as concrete as it's supposed to get, and you're just trying to talk it away. If you really want to reduce prices, this is an option. Governments have repeatedly talked about these projects getting cheaper, we're getting more money. Now we ask: when costs are reduced, the drivers in Norway will benefit from this in their wallet. Would they get lower tolls if there were reduced costs, or would they not?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3255	The president wants to remind the representative that one has to talk through the president.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3260	I already answered that, and the answer to that is yes – the answer is yes. If the costs are lower than those underlying the proposition, the government will facilitate lower tolls in the car lists. But I can adjust my previous penance: the central party that opens up is to say shut down in the hall today, when one has to vote for proposals because one does not trust the government to implement what we have said in the Granavolden platform. It's fun to think and remind the representatives of the Center Party in upcoming discussions – when one thinks one doesn't implement the Granavolden platform quickly enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3265	Since the Council of State does not fully agree with the SV that it is the railway that will bind the country together, but large motorways, I have to ask: can the Council of State see that a modern two-track high-speed rail, for example. Kristiansand or Trondheim, to a large extent takes much of the traffic a four-field highway does? I have read in articles – to inform the Council of State, if he does not have the figures in his head – that a modern two-track railway can take the same traffic as a 16-field motorway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3270	It is obvious that the train may be more competitive than road passenger car transport. It's obvious that it can. But what the opposition party has been doing for very many years is underestimating what kind of transport needs we're going to have in the future. Only ten years after the road on these sections had been built up, a reinvestor had to reinvest because the capacity had been detonated. That is when the need arises for us today. We build a road for the future to manage another traffic, to manage a country with an increasing population, to manage districts where there is growth and value creation in the future, where new jobs are coming, and where there is a need to commute to find good employment and employment markets. We're building this country for the future, not yesterday. That's why we dimension our road constructions to deal with the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3275	Replicate cord shift complete. The following speakers also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3282	It will be free to pass the bombs as long as the Advance Party is in government, said Progress Party leader Siv Jensen without taking a single reservation. The representative, Bård Hoksrud, guaranteed a bomb-free Norway. Well, today I took a look at the TV 2's brilliant 'bomometer'. It says that the Progress Party in the government has so far demanded 41,354,734,411 kroner. The bombometer has never tickled as fast as it is now. There is a record in the collection of tolls with the Progress Party in government. Bomb-free and free disappeared as dew for the sun as soon as the Advance Party entered the government offices. Then the Progress Party declares the toll crisis. They are exposed to cases in the Storting, require negotiations with their government partners and make a great deal of noise about the consequences of their own policies. The Progress Party's own policy has created what the Progress Party has crisis meetings about in the back room, and the husband has rarely seen. The Progress Party has increased the number of toll stations from 170 in 2013 to 245 in 2018, and today a single Progress Party in the Stortinget is voting for it to be even more expensive and more expensive. Outside the municipalities the Progress Party tries to doubt that they are against tolls. Let us take the representative of Laabak, who is from Fredrikstad and the rapporteur's candidate for the Progress Party. He will vote today in Stortinget for 22 billion toll projects. kr, but at home in Fredrikstad and Eastfold he is against tolls, he says. So the light came on, and then the explanations burst out. Then it turns out that the Advance Party has become both the king and the queen of tolls, and the leaders of the Advance Party, who heard Siv Jensen, Bård Hoksrud and the Bears Laabak promise to vote against tolls, got the cats in the bag. They were fooled. The toll bill is still rising. That's what the Progress Party is doing. They increase the toll bill for ordinary people, but they can afford to give tax cuts to Norway's richest. That is the priority of the Progress Party. This is today's Advance Party policy. It is this reality that the representatives of the Advance Party go home, among other things. Fredrikstad, too. There was neither free nor bomb-free with the Advance Party in government. That was the exact opposite. And in a little bit – in a little bit – the voting list will confirm it all, that this is the reality of today's Advance Party. They're for tolls.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3295	Tuesday, June 4th, there was a bit of drama on Stortinget. Suddenly it appears that the suspension issued by the Committee on Transport and Communications is not yet to be discussed on Wednesday 5 June. The Prime Minister has called the Prime Minister and said: Dear Prime Minister, you must postpone treatment! And for the first time, the staging president uses his double voice one day before the cases are dealt with, because it's so hugely important that the treatment of the two toll propositions is postponed for 14 days. Then at least I believed that there was going to be some new policy, that there should be some political reasons for doing so. But then it turns out today that there were no reasons for that. The only reason to postpone the adoption of the two propositions was that the Progress Party was to have a national government meeting that evening, and that the double communication with the Progress Party was too embarrassing and too obvious when you were about 10 billion. in new tolls at the same time as they were concerned about the toll situation in Norway. What we're going to do today is adopt two propositions that were supposed to have been adopted 14 days ago – and then it turns out that there were only government games that put them at risk. There were no factual arguments, no reason why committee chairman Helge Orten should say that this was wise. There was no reason why the staging president should use his double voice. There were no real political reasons. There was one reason, and it was that it would make it a little less unpleasant for the representatives of the Progress Party at the National Board meeting to meet their own elected trustees. But the representatives of the Progress Party should meet their own trust-elects and complain to the national government meeting: we didn't mean anything about it, we should just make it a little more comfortable for ourselves, because we think it's perfectly okay to increase the toll payment by about 15 billion. NOK approx. One month after a national meeting, it was said that tolls would be reduced in Norway by 100 billion. kr. It promised the Progress Party last month. You had to reduce the toll by 100 billion. kr, and on the first occasion you increase it by 15 br. kr. I don't think we've ever seen the same thing between words and political action. More circuses than we saw here 14 days ago, it's not possible to get to, and for no reason. Today, the representatives of the Progress Party have the opportunity to vote in favour of a concrete proposal that gives concrete change, that if the toll projects become cheaper, it will benefit the drivers. But then the answer to the government council is Jon Georg Dale arrogance and despondency, because those who sit in government are so much wiser and know so much better. But once again you know that it's just words. So, dear Progress Party representatives, who want lower toll rates, who want to take the drivers seriously: vote for the proposal that actually gives it. If the Progress Party votes for it today, it will be a majority, and the drivers will earn it, not lose it. It's time to go from games and speculation to concrete action.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3317	It is interesting to hear the representative of the Central Party, a colleague of mine from India, say that nothing has happened since we had a national government meeting and the bombings were subjected to rational, effective treatment. At least it was our goal to get one debate, but now there are three debates, perhaps with the same wish price each time, repetition time and time again. But it is completely wrong that nothing has happened. The Central Party may not have brought it, but the Council of State has been clear and clear and clarified both at the press conference and in the media, or at least in the press, that there should be no lateral bombing. So in one of the things we're dealing with today, there's not going to be a bomb on the side roads. Fortunately, in two of the cases it was not a bomb, and in the last case, in Trøndelag, it is not going to be a bomb either. Today we're really dealing with three very important roadways. There are important issues to connect the country, there are important issues for employment, value creation, road safety and, above all, reduced travel time. Our priorities for road construction and the reorganization and efficiency of the road sector and road construction in Norway, including: The establishment of New Roads has led to the final development of the main road network in Norway. It's an extension that should have been done several generations ago. Europe took that promise after World War II, the United States took it in the 1950s with Eisenhower. Thanks to the New Roads and the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, we now build over 700 kilometres by motorway. It's historic. It had never happened before, and it would never happen without the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left. It must be embarrassing, especially for the Workers' Party and perhaps even more for the Centre Party, that the motorway plan that the Workers' Party actually had ambitions and wants to try to implement from the beginning of the 1960s was put in a drawer when the Centre Party took over power and the Workers' Party lost the election. Then it should, for example, be be four fields for Lillehammer, as we are adopting today, by 1980. There should be four fields through Telemark, as we are adopting today, by 1980. But as everyone knows, nothing happened to the Central Party in government and nothing happened to the Workers' Party in government. It took a civil government to take advantage of the important transport promise that Norway will continue to make. We're not just building faster and better, we're also building at a significantly lower cost. The three projects we are adopting today save taxpayers for approx. 8 B.C.E. kr. In total, the drivers save approx. 30 B.C.E. kr on the projects that Nye Weier is building up. So there's a little bit of an unsound presentation that we're increasing the bombing rates. With the Advance Party in government, the bombings have actually gone down, they've gone down by almost 30 pst., and I'll get back to that in the next post.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3332	We've seen some strange crunches lately associated with the government's toll propositions. On 5 June, the Stortinget was to deal with two propositions, including: the one we are now dealing with, concerning the financing and development of Langangen-Dørdal. The matter was referred to the Committee and discussed and put up for debate on 5 June. On 4 June, it turns out that the Presidency, with the President's double voice, is postponing these matters until 19 June. The reason was strange. It was because another toll proposition was to be debated on 19 June, and you wanted to see the issues in context. These three matters are independent of each other, do not affect each other, and there was absolutely no need to deal with them collectively. When we know that the Progress Party had its extraordinary national meeting on 5 June, it is clear to everyone that the reason was different. So the staging meetings are run after the meeting days of the Progress Party. It's pretty special. The parties to the Government did not dare to adopt the matters on which they themselves had submitted and referred to in the Committee. One might wonder if the government has control over its own transport policy. In fact, the Progress Party has voted in favour of any toll proposal that has been dealt with during this period. The fact that the party later makes double communication even clearer as otherwise in the public domain. A party of government must take responsibility for what they themselves do in government. The working party has voted in favour of all the toll proposals for the purpose of building more roads. At the same time, we see the reactions to the high cost of bombs and that many react to the flat tax that this represents. The Labour Party has proposed to assess road pricing, in order to achieve a fairer distribution of expenditure. Such an investigation could say something about factors that are included in the road pricing, such as geography, road standard etc. In practice, there is indeed a majority in this Chamber to discuss road pricing, but obviously here the Progress Party has put its foot down. In fact, acquiring knowledge and information about something before considering whether it can be a valid way is never wasted. I think it has been interesting to register the contributions from the Progress Party. We hear nothing more about toll riots, we hear nothing more about free tolls. But we have to deal with the realities as they are, and it is time for the Progress Party as a party of governments to grow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3345	The majority of the Committee refers to the Workers' Party's concern about increasing the cost of the drivers and refers to the government's measures to reduce these costs. In this one proposition, a toll amount far exceeding the amount of government parties say the government has saved the cars. The government parties said in the notes that they have saved the cars for 1.5 billion. kr for the entire period of its government, while only interest and expenses for collection exceed the total amount claimed to be saved for the drivers. Interest and operations in this project, Langangen-Dørdal, amount to 1,743 billion. kr, and the toll percentage claims are undermined in this and the next two propositions. The state share of the Langangen–Dørdal route is only 55 pst, which is 45 pst. on the drivers. And that's not close to the 28 pst. the government boasts. There have been many toll proposals adopted in the period I have met as a representative on the Stortinget. The toll ratio is not as interesting for the drivers out there as the total toll load they know about. And that's it, that's the toll load, we're thinking about in our notes. So, from this point of view, a few hundred million people aren't going to spend that much on finishing projects that are soon to be paid off. Finally, I can mention three projects that show the injustice and unfairness we want to eliminate with our proposal on road pricing. It shows the unfairness of the government's way of dealing with tolls. One is Grane in Northern Ireland, where you pay tolls, but you don't get away. The second is Otta in the Gudbrand valley, where they pay tolls without getting the way they're promised. The third is the OPS project on rv. 3, where the toll percentage is 90 p.p., although it is promised a much lower proportion. We can't have it like that. The working party is not against tolls, but we are against unfair and unfair tolls.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3356	The Granavolden platform says that the share of tolls in new projects is fixed or reduced when project costs are reduced. But today we have to ask ourselves, is this just rhetoric? The centre party shall support the introduction of tolls in the locations where it is requested locally. The big difference is that the party leader of the Progress Party, Siv Jensen, has actually promised his voters that with the Advance Party by power, the toll will be removed – actually set at NOK 0. The fees were also to be reduced. But Finance Minister Jensen sets new records in terms of both tolls and charges. What the Minister of Finance, Siv Jensen, has removed is the tax burden on all, the richest in this country, that is. that the Minister of Finance has increased the revenue of those who have absolutely had the economy to pay tolls. I have been looking forward to this debate because I had thought that I would finally meet negro in the Progress Party, representing Carl I. Hagen, for a real toll debate. We know that this representative has a vision within the Progress Party, but it seems that this view cannot be very profound, since the representative is not here today to present the argument that was made at quite high volume on the same day that we were actually going to deal with two of these three toll cases, i.e. on 5 June. No one has said anything but that the Progress Party is going to vote to demand a new 15 billion. In the case of tolls, but where the Dale Government Council is so determined that the proposals of the Centre Party are within the Tolls of the Progress Party, the Progress Party must then be able to vote for this proposal, which we have promoted in order to reduce the burden of tolls on drivers. In the revised 2019 national budget of the Central Party, we propose to reduce the toll on the drivers instead of withdrawing the money into the treasury. And when we promote a very concrete proposal to reduce the toll burden, it is strange that it seems that this proposal, with the votes of the Progress Party on the scale, is going to be put to a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3367	What we are adopting today, both this project and the next two, are three important projects for the country. We build the country at a faster pace than ever. We build traffic-safe roads, and we contribute to increased value creation around the whole country. It's important. This is a project based on distance financing. This means that there is a good link between diet and benefit in this project. The drivers understand what they're paying for, they're getting a new road, and they're getting a much safer road. That is why there is also a large majority for this – but after listening to the debate, you can start to wonder, when everyone is so concerned about the level of toll in these projects for which there is a large majority. With regard to the Centre Party and the Workers' Party, the free passengers in these projects that Nye Veier builds are because they were against the establishment of Nye Veier. What have we achieved in establishing New Roads? Well, we're increasing the social benefits of projects. We do that in two ways: either by increasing the benefits of projects, which are good for the country, or by reducing costs. It's done in all these three projects that are being presented here today. We've reduced the cost. Then you can stand on this platform and talk about how we're going to distribute any exceedances or savings associated with the project sum that's there. What's most important of all, is that we've reduced the cost in the planning phase, before we start building the projects. That's what makes the big difference, and that's where the drivers will also benefit from it, in terms of lower toll rates and less tolls in the future. That's what's real here. Here, the Workers' Party and the Centre are free passengers in projects that Nye Veier builds up, because they were against this establishment – and almost all of the reforms that have been carried out in the transport sector. So to Langholm Hansen and the Workers' Party: Well, we'd like to join in and discuss new technology for toll collection. I think that's most relevant when it comes to urban packages. In these projects, which have distance financing, there is quite a good connection between diet and benefit – what you pay, and what you get back in the form of a road. However, if the Labour Party in this case believes that these tolls are unfair and unfair, it is the opportunity to vote against. But that's not going to happen, and then I think that those who are in favour of this, too, see the benefits of the projects, see the value of building up the country and see this as both fair and fair, based on what's on the table. If not, one jam must be able to come up with another proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3378	First, I want to start by saying that this is a very important day, that you now make the decision to build this way. I have lived in the municipality you are about to start building in, and I live in the municipality where you are now building at a crazy good pace. Unfortunately, many people have lost their lives on the road that is there today. The road ended in 1996. There was a two- and three-field road, and there were many accidents there even after the previous road was built. I think it's a sin of failure that you hadn't built a real four-field road when the road was finished in 1996, but I'm very glad you're there now, and that you're doing it with 1 billion. kr less in costs than it would have been if the State Road Service had continued, and if the red-greens had continued to rule, because you did not want New Roads and the way to build on them. I have not followed everyone, but there have at least been three representatives who have been on the platform and have not mentioned a single word about what this matter is actually about, namely the extension of the E18 from Langangen to Dørdal. I think it's reasonably special. In fact, I'm starting to wonder if the representative of the Battle of Vedum has at all read the proposition, because in the second section of page 15 – it should be read – the attempts of the Center Party are a fine thing about this with tolls if the company is able to deliver good results. It is clear there, so I hope that the representative Schlagsvold Vedum will be able to read. I'm almost starting to trick after hearing his article. The center party is trying to get high and dark on this pulpit. When the Central Party sat with power and the Minister of Transport in 2013, 10 billion were taken. kr more from the drivers than is now done with this government, in terms of car-related taxes and tolls in total. I think the drivers are happy that they don't pay the ten billion. The representative Geir Pollestad said that using New Roads as a tool was to put transport policy back decades in time. I believe and hope that he will go up to the pulpit and say that he regrets what he said at the time, because now you are building out, and with the portfolio that New Vejer is going to expand, you have faith that you can manage to build 109 km more quadruple highway than what was at the time, before New Veier took over for the State Road Service. This clearly shows that this has been a success. So today, we're saving our cars for $8 billion. kr on the three projects. If the red-green had fallen, it would have been largely toll money. The Turkish Battle Force Vedum votes for all toll projects, yes, the Senter Party even voted for all the toll projects where the Progress Party in government managed to remove toll stations, as we did in Alta, as we did in Urban Package Grenland, as we did in Seljord–Åmvet. This shows that we are reducing tolls with the Progress Party in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3393	I feel that in these matters one struggles to be the best friend of the drivers, and I also experience a political game from the opposition. I see that there is a cross-political consensus that better and safer roads are socially viable. It provides increased value creation in municipalities and creates sustainable welfare societies. The reason I took the floor was really the representative of Nävra's emotional posts and his care for the drivers. SV is in the best interests of dealing with it. They are against major road projects and what they call the government's motorway plan. In the area from which I come, we do not ask for motorways. We're just asking for a two-field path with a yellow middle stripe. In North Norway, in the motorway plan, as SV calls it, there are not planned four-field motorways, but national road standards, for which SV goes in. However, I registered a few weeks ago that the party leader in SV was standing in the VG with an overview of where to cut it in the motorway plans. 450 B.C.E. kr wants to cut, but the overview shows that 221 billion. kr, i.e. approx. half, shall be cut north of Steinkjer, i.e. in northern Norway where no motorways are planned. So one final question: who is it SV wants to trick?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3404	It is good that a new part of a road between Stavanger and Oslo should be built. What's in this case, is 6.2 billion. in respect of tolls payable, according to the statements in the proposal. It's $1,200 per Norwegian, either running on this road or not. The progress batch often talks about the toll section being reduced to 28 pst. In this case, he's at 38.6 p.m. In the next case we're going to deal with, the toll part is 37.8 pst, and in the next one after that, he's at 48.5 pst. It's very far away from 28 pst. It's strange that a guy who's already saved $8 billion. kr on these projects. Then one would think that one had 8 billion. kr as one could have used to reduce the toll part of these projects. It's obvious that these money has ended up in the treasury instead. A few weeks ago, I was in the debate at the NRK against Carl I. Hagen. He looked at the inhabitants of Norway in the eye and said that the Advance Party would spend 100 billion dollars. to remove the tolls. Instead, we're going to have 22 billion. kr new tolls today. In a meeting with Jon Georg Dale and Siv Jensen his Carl I. Hagen stuck. So you can ask yourself, does the Progress Party do something of importance when it comes to tolls? First of all, does the car list pay less in tolls? No, in the last five years, the Progress Party has seen a new Norwegian record in toll collection. So once again, ask yourself, does the toll go down, that's what it says to pay? No, in 2013 the debt was 35.5 billion. kr. It's increased to 58 billion. kr. Does the pace of the introduction of new tolls go down with this government? The answer to that is definitely no. Tolls have been proposed that would amount to 240 billion. kr. It's over 100 million. kr new tolls proposed every day The Party of Advances has its seat in the Government. So I don't want to just talk about the Progress Party. I have to correct the representative Lauvås a little, because he referred to the TV 2’s ‘bomometer’ and said it was 41 billion. kr. I had been delighted to be with previous toll opponents Board Hoksrud when the bomber passed 1 billion. kr. TV 2 has probably not done the job, because they have not turned up the bomb at the rate that the Progress Party has. It's not 41 billion. kr that was supposed to be on the bomber. It was supposed to say 60 billion. kr. That's the reality, so it should fix the TV 2 in.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3422	When the representative of the Progressive Party goes to the pulpit to justify why it made sense for the Storting to postpone the debate scheduled two weeks ago, but which was postponed for two weeks at short notice, the best thing he can do is to encourage a more rational and effective debate. He further explained that then one could perhaps settle for one debate on these matters. It just shows what was the purpose of the postponement of the Progress Party: to get as little debate as possible on matters, to hide them a Wednesday night close before the end of the session, to hope for the least possible attention around them and to ensure that those representatives of the Progress Party who were suffering severe pains were preserved their well-being by not being present. The Progress Party must take responsibility for the proposals they vote for or against in this Chamber. Today, the Centre Party has put forward a concrete proposal to reduce all cost reductions in the project to reduce toll payments for the drivers. The representative Hoksrud went to the pulpit instead and tried to teach other representatives about the content of the proposition from the government, but was unable to refer to what is on page 15 of the proposition. What is stated on page 15 of the proposal is that if there are cost reductions, only part of the reduction will be used to reduce tolls, while the other part will be allocated to the treasury. That's what's at that point, and that's exactly the same trick we've seen in case after case. When the Progress Party at its national meeting decides that one should delete 100 billion. kr in tolls, their party leaders and finance ministers come immediately afterwards and promote a revised national budget which involves a reduction of so-called 2 per million of that amount. On top of that comes the second proposal that not only nullifies it but involves increased toll burden compared to what would have been if one had continued the current year's budget without changes. The toll policy of the Progress Party is not a believer. There's going to be a record set. After one came into the government, one has gone from 9 billion. SEK to expected 13 billion. kr this year, and it comes to the top of high-record charges, among other things. on fuel, such as the Prime Minister of the country has boasted. The Progress Party should vote in favour of proposals on reduced tolls.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3434	When I hear this debate, I have to say I understand why there will be rebellion against tolls in Norway. Central batches that have agreed to expand in this country, and that in road packages and everything has been for tolls, now produce tolls like the worst that could happen in the country. I would point out that I think it was a bit of a downturn when party leader Jonas Gahr Støre was with him and carried on to the fire with a light solution: to tear the bombs and introduce the road pricing instead. He seriously sub-communicated that the party in any case believes that the drivers have to pay their fair share, and would like to pay even a little more. Many questions remain unresolved, and it becomes strange when the opposition parties in the matters we are dealing with go into the same trap. The right will also investigate whether there are other and more cost-effective ways of charging, but there are many questions that need to be answered in that process. The main objective must be that the person taking advantage of the measures must be involved in paying. We need to distinguish between urban packages/urban environment and urban growth agreements on the one hand and stretching projects on the other. It seems that there is a great deal of acceptance for partial payment by users of large road projects. It is probably related to the fact that the collection comes after the construction of the road. You've got what you pay for. However, it is also important to note that many of the projects for which money is currently being collected are projects that have been decided by a large majority over the period 2000–2013. Many of the projects that have been adopted, more or less unanimously, in the last six years, are still in the construction phase. In 2018, 62 projects had toll collection. The collection was completed in the projects E18 Aust-Agderpakten, e.g. 71 Cyclic Bridges and Rv. 19 Kirkebakken-Re border. In addition, the collection was completed in the Nord-Jären package, while the collection continued in the Bypakket Nord-Jären in the same area. For the projects E18 Bombestad-Sky and Rv. 36 The Battle of the Year started the collection. The toll collection also started in the toll station of the E6 Hålogalandsbrua, but this was an extension of one toll station for this project. By the end of 2018, 59 projects had toll collection. A total of 81 projects at this time were adopted by the Storting, i.e. 22 projects had not yet started the collection. The operating costs have been discussed. The road transport statistics of the State show that operating costs as a share of the pass-by income of the 2018-enforcement projects are at 7.1 pst. This is therefore the lowest proportion ever, and it puts many of the media releases about the cost collection in a gruesome light.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3446	It's a strange debate we've witnessed to today. One of the swollen inserts is replaced by the other. One would almost think that the representatives were over-medicated with Møller's tran. Most of the time is spent trying to tell what the Progress Party is doing and what the Progress Party should do. The Progress Party is proud that we are building and maintaining roads. That's what the people deserve. Ideally, the roads were built without tolls, but the majority in this hall, including the Centre Party and the Workers' Party, said no. Under the red-green government was the toll level of 40 pst. Now it's at 28 pst. The Progress Party has been a driver to establish New Weier AS. The proposition states – well described – that the reduction should also benefit the driver list. It is said that there is a record with us in government. There's a record in road construction. When the majority have said that tolls should be part of the funding, it is natural that the number of tolls should also be increased. You don't have to be very smart to understand that. The centre party is concerned about the level of tolls. The centre party promotes its own proposal that the drivers should receive the full cost reduction by reducing tolls. The incentive with New Roads and building cheaper is just that they have to have part of the reduction, so that they can build even more roads. The center party was opposed, and were probably also the ones who called this an airlock in their time. Yes, perhaps this very proposal is not necessarily promoted for the benefit of the drivers, but because you want to make sure to put down New Roads almost before they get started properly. But if you remove that incentive, you also remove the possibility of New Roads building multiple roads. Let's relate to the matter as it is. The matter gives them what's going on, new roads and cheaper roads, unless tolls than the red-green government would give them.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3460	Since SV is the party that stands out a bit here, I will explain – slowly and clearly and with proper intonation – why SV is critical to the major motorway plans. We want to move the large sums of money from four-field roads, where this is often not necessary for the volume of traffic, to two- and three-field roads on the long distances. We want a lot more means to fix, repair, race protection, extensions of narrow western roads, with yellow midstrip, middle parts in exposed locations and safe walking and cycling routes. Then we also approach the representative of Finstad's wishes for the Lofoten area and many of the outer roads in North Norway. Just think about how many miles of good district roads we could get for the money we spend on four - field highways — an enormous number of miles. I have not even mentioned the delay in maintaining the county roads. There we might be talking about 40 billion. kr or more. Think about it, a whole E18 out of Oslo or a Hordfast! SV wants it to be the railway that binds the country together – where it is right for it. It facilitates it on all of the projection sections that we're talking about today. The railway goes in the same corridor, but usually on one track, built 100 years ago. That is the reality. Talk about priority in a world that is screaming for climate action and gripping for the environment! I see that some of the parties that swim out there in an uproared toll sea and with toll anxiety have gripped a lifebuoy. That lifebuoy is called road pricing. What kind of spell form is that? They're going to have the money in, they're going to have the money in, too. Well, SV is also concerned with fair distribution. That is what we stand for to a great extent. We are a party for the many and not for the few, so of course we are for a dynamic, satellite-based road pricing too. But this depends, of course, on how the device of that road pricing is going to be. We can make it fair when the fight over the criteria stands. We can set driving distance, geography, emissions, rush time or not. Yes, even the income of the family we can put in. But with regard to road taxes, tolls and road pricing, we have to stick to two points: firstly, the polluter pays, and the polluter pays the most and does the most damage. Secondly, it must have something to say financially to drive into the center of a city, or where people want to drive. That shows all the research. Otherwise it doesn't help anything. But if it's fair, maybe it should cost the same amount – $30 for Mrs. Nilsen and $3,000 for Smoke.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3473	The country collects huge sums of tolls and other purchase fees and operating charges every year. What we in the Center Party are concerned about is that this is required in a manner that is fair and that the basis for the collection is easy to understand. In the national transport plan 2018–2029, a total of 133 billion has been added. kr in external financing of projects and actions on the national road network during the planning period. This is essentially tolls. In reply to written questions, the Council of State stated that, corrected for the expected toll contribution in 2018, this amounts to 125 billion. kr from 1 January 2019. In 2018, the Central Party promoted a proposal that the State should assume the guarantee liability for existing toll projects on the national road. With the large amount of toll financing received on state highways, it appears highly unreasonable that municipalities and county municipalities should act as guarantors of their own roads. For some, it may in practice mean, when this period has ended, that they have a debt that they are unable to handle and that is going to go beyond the inhabitants both in the county and in the municipality. The State should be able to guarantee its own large-scale projects as soon as possible. In addition, measures are most likely to contribute to significantly lower interest rates in many projects. It should also be possible to organise it in a different way, with a view to simplification, and not least a savings in terms of how toll companies are managed on a daily basis. Unfortunately, the government has not done anything to get this done. We support tolls in those places where there is a local desire to do so. Tolls are sometimes needed to implement road development, secure bridge connections, construction of tunnels — whatever it may be. In other places, municipalities have concluded so-called urban growth agreements, where tolls form part of the agreement, with a view to reducing road traffic in order to improve air quality and the urban environment. For the Central Party, it is important that people living in parts of the country who do not have a public collective offer are not penalised with tolls. That's essentially what we're concerned about. Here there has to be a differentiation as to what people will experience in everyday life. The toll payment has shot speed during today's government. It's a 13-billion-dollar expectation. kr in 2019. Tolls payable, i.e. the amount of tolls left to be paid has increased dramatically during the current government and the number of tolls has increased from 170 to 245. This has to be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3488	Let me start by saying that I think the E18 Langangen – Dørdal is a very important road development. One must say as long as one comes from Telemark, but that is anyway, because we experience significant traffic challenges there very often. It's a road map that's going to go through a demanding area. There are large residential areas related to the road body and, in particular, important connections that are to be made via the upper Telemark binding, but also towards industry and industry, and this is an important point. I welcome the proposal. We're going to vote for the tolls proposed in the proposition, but one gets a little confused when one hears how specifically the representatives of the Progress Party talk about this matter. First of all, we're going to make it look like there's a toll ratio of 38 pst. Reality isn't that. The reality is that in this project – which costs 11.5 billion on the way. NOK – plus one of SEK 1.75 billion. kr in interest and collection costs and receive a total of 13,2 billion. NOK, of which the drivers are required to pay 6.2 billion. kr in tolls. That is the reality. Then you're talking about almost 50 pst. tolls. Then we hear the representative Hoksrud – and to the extent also the Council of State – say that if the project becomes cheaper, everything should benefit the drivers. But the proposition says: ‘In line with the Granavolden platform, the Ministry of Transport assumes that savings compared to the expected cost are distributed between State resources and tolls according to the same percentage distribution.’ Do I then misunderstand the situation with regard to both what the Council of State says and what the representative Hoksrud says? Is it that if it gets cheaper, it's all going to happen to the drivers? And will everything that gets more expensive be taken by New Roads? It says in the proposition that cost exceedances of up to 10 pst. shall be covered proportionately. That's the way it's funded in the proposition -- in other words, it's almost 50 pst. by the drivers. In that case, I think there will be considerable arrogance, if it is a parliamentary expression, with the Council of State's answer to Mr Leirtrös's question about any additional costs arising from the objections of the State Road Administration to cross-resolution in Porsground, which is estimated to be close to 1 billion. kr. Who's gonna pay for it? Is it New Roads, or is it the drivers with up to 50 pst, as it is funded otherwise? It's okay to be against tolls, but relate to what's in the proposition. Present it honestly and do not try to cover you behind false communications against the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3502	The President understands that there is a high temperature in the debate, but one can put it in an eloquent way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3507	At the end of the 1980s there was a song on the hit lists called Bombadilla Life. I refute it as follows: ‘Bomb bomb! Bombadilla Life!’» Welcome to Bombadilla Life – The Bombadilla Life of the Advance Party! Siv Jensen was a few weeks ago, in another debate, called the Toll Queen. 'Drama Queen' is perhaps a better expression, for what drama is created in this matter! The representative Jonny Finstad from the Right says it's political game from the opposition. Yom, I said butter! Who is involved in political games in this matter? The Progress Party had to have a crisis meeting in the middle of the Stortingen's treatment of two of the three matters we are dealing with today. The two cases were postponed after the Presidency, with three to three votes in favour and the President’s double vote, suspended the proceedings for 14 days. And why would that be done? Nothing has happened except that the Progress Party had to have a crisis meeting internally, but we do know why the two cases were postponed. That was what the representatives Helge Orten and Morten Stordalen said when we discussed the postponement on 4 June. It was because they wanted less debate on the toll issues. The representative of Stordalen even said he was afraid there was going to be a discussion about the policy of the Progress Party, so we know why the issues were put at risk for 14 days. So I have to say it's not going to be required in 15.6 billion. NOK in tolls in the three matters we are dealing with today. 22 billion shall be required. kr in tolls. 15.6 B.C.E. Tolls shall be tolled for road construction, with a total of 6,4 billion. kr goes to the financing costs and the collection costs. For the E18 Langangen-Dørdal a total of 6,2 billion shall be required. kr in tolls. 4,5 B.C.E. Of these, SEK is going to road construction, and a total of SEK 1.7 billion. kr is for financing costs and collection costs. The working party is for all three road projects to be dealt with today. We're to expand E18 in Telemark, we're to expand E6 in Trøndelag, and we're to expand E6 in Hedmark and Uppland, and we stand for it. But the large collection costs in these three cases – I think almost have to say the huge collection costs – show that we can make this more sensible and fairer, and that is where the Workers' Party's proposal to investigate road pricing comes into the picture. Time's working for it. All the aggregates, except for the Progress Party, are probably for that. It'll come sooner or later. It's just so bad it takes so long.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3523	The President will point out that using nicknames on state councils and other co-founders is not within. «Drama queen» is not inside.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3528	In this description of misery that some people are trying to give, it might be nice to take a little bit of a look at the fact that, after all, there has been a huge investment in traffic since 2013. We all know what happened in 2013. This government has raised road investment to a whole new level, and we have adopted an NTP that contains a historic effort to build roads. We in the Progress Party would like to see the toll share in these projects be smaller, considerably smaller. In fact, the Progress Party had wanted none of these investments to be co-financed with tolls, but there the Progress Party differs from all the other parties. When we gave in 2013 to accept tolls, it was not just for the majority of the government, but because we are the only party on the Stortinget that wants to build roads in this country without tolls. We did that on the assumption that the toll ratio would be reduced. It's been greatly reduced. It's gone down from over 40 pst. under the red-green to now below 28 pst. We had to streamline the sector, and we had to establish New Veger. A lot of people have fought it. There are several parties in this room that have decided to shut down that company, shut down a company that has almost managed to halve the construction time on its projects and save society for tens of billions. Only on these three projects alone, Nye Veier is expected to have a savings of 8 billion. kr. All of these three projects we are adopting today are in the portfolio of Nye Veier. This means that users of these roads will enjoy themselves today, rejoice that the road will be built faster, and that it will be built cheaper. For those who do not want to pay, there is a free roundabout. So we're building more roads for less money and less tolls every day. The Progress Party considers it important to build roads. We look at road construction as regional construction, such as linking housing and working areas, creating more attractive regions, creating good and efficient societies – of course to the joy of the user, but perhaps most importantly to the joy of a more competitive business. This work shall continue with the Progress Party. There is no doubt that, for the drivers, only the Progress Party is an alternative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3541	Actually, this is a joyous thing. We're going to build three roads that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, SV, the Greens and Reds probably would never have built. We build them even cheaper, we build them better, and we build them faster than what might have been done with the red-greens. It is a great but, of course, it is the funding. We in the Progress Party are not satisfied with the fact that there will be tolls. We don't want tolls, we don't like tolls. We want to spend more oil money and invest in infrastructure in Norway. Unfortunately, there we are alone. We don't have a majority. After all, we're just using it under 3 pst. the yield of the oil fund, by the so-called ‘rule of action’. It's not long since we used 4 pst. If you go back to 4 pst, go back to the old rule of action -- you don't need more dramatic changes than that -- we would have had almost 100 billion. NOK to cash a lot of the debt we are now discussing, which the drivers unfortunately have to pay. Unfortunately, it is not the majority, even now that there is so much resistance to tolls and more and more parties are standing here screaming against tolls. But they don't have a proposal where they want to spend more oil money to finance road development. It's kind of interesting to think about how the red-greens are going to finance the road construction when they don't want to use more oil revenue. Then they have to use more of the tax revenue. This will result in a substantial increase in taxation. Although the Progress Party has not managed to get a majority to use more oil money to pay the toll, we have managed to get a new majority through cooperation with the Right, Left and Christian People's Party. Bomber's discount has increased to 20 pst. When we joined the government, there were almost 60 toll companies. Many governments are crazy about food, driving compensation, dividends, serving, bureaucracy and administration. Only in Hedmark, from which I come, there were three toll companies – one for every little road bill to be built. After we have reformed the toll collection and made it more efficient, so more money goes to pay the road and less goes to bureaucracy, there are now only five toll companies across the country. We've got a majority on the platform to spend a billion dollars. kr annually to pay tolls. Of course, that amount should have been higher. I hope that several parties can help us to do that. It's completely possible. It will cut toll costs further. And also remember, before we got into government, the main rule of the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party were always bombing on the side roads, and it was never even talking about reducing the bomb fare on the side roads. Thanks to us, the booms on the side roads are now taken out, and there are not going to be any more booms on the side roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3552	Jon Georg Dale stood with enthusiasm and kept his post in place and said, "This is a good day." He repeated it several times – it's a good day. Think of hearing the representatives of the Progress Party – it's a happy day. For Jon Georg Dale, it's probably a good day, because he's survived as a state council. That's why he's so happy. And those who wanted to rebel in the Advance Party don't even come to the hall. I remember it was a new-on-repetition every Friday: where is Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen? Today we can say, where is Carl I. Hagen? He's been hiding in the Town Hall down the street here. For Carl I. Hagen sees that what is now being voted through here is in conflict with what was the National Assembly Decision of the Progress Party. When the representative Tor André Johnsen now complains about the rule of action, that they should have spent so much more oil money, it is precisely because his own party leader, Siv Jensen, is against it, that it does not happen. The government has not proposed it. The government has proposed to use the drivers to pay 22 billion. kr more, do not cut 100 billion. kr, which was the decision at the national meeting of the Progress Party. Tor André Johnsen of the Progress Party says that now it's over with a side-way bomb. Tor André Johnsen, who is from Hedmark, knows that on the E6 that was built when it was red-green period, there was no bomb on the sidewalk. But for the E6 to be built by New Roads, there is a sideway bomb. So once again, it's just words, and that's the big problem of the Progress Party. On Friday, the Progress Party will vote for 430 million. kr in increased toll burden, because they have withdrawn the money into the revised national budget. It says in the proposition, as Bård Hoksrud says so loud and dark, and the center part has to read the proposition. Of course we've read the proposition. State Council Dale says it's like opening doors -- just reading the proposition. But then it says in the proposition that there should be ‘allocation between State resources and tolls according to the same percentage distribution’. So, it's going to be evenly distributed between the state and tolls. That's what the proposition says. If the Progress Party is so concerned about the tolls, they should vote in favour of the proposal of the Centre Party, which says that the entire win should come back to the drivers. That is what the Progress Party is against. Once again they show that it's just words and not meaning. On Friday, the Progress Party will again vote against the OPS projects rv. 3/rev. 25 and E39 in Trøndelag. It makes the toll percentage go up, not down. I hope that the Advance Party will dare to be open, dare to be honest and start listening also to Christian Tybring-Gjedde and Carl I. Hagen, who says that they are doing the instant receipt of what they went to vote on. That's the main problem. The centre party has good, concrete proposals that give a little more control over the costs for Norwegian drivers. We also have a different charging policy and a different commuter policy, which makes those who depend on the car every day come out better than with the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3569	This debate illustrates exactly what I was saying when we put these two things at risk to deal with them together, preferably together with the last proposition. Most of the posts have been about exactly what I said in the hall then. What I said was that I wasn't at all afraid to take the debate; I rejoiced in the debate. But very few articles have been about the projects we are dealing with today. That's exactly what I said. I didn't fear it, I just said that was how it was going to be. When you say that Battle violence Vedum could not have read the proposition, I don't think he had done it earlier today or last night. What it says, and as I also say, is that if you take all the savings, that's the first step to shut down the company New Roads. One of the incentives for New Weger is to keep some of that surplus to reinvest in new projects. What it says is a percentage comparison with keeping something excess over a certain percentage. In addition, perhaps Battle Violence Vedum also knows that this government is working to further reduce the toll ratio. It's also on the platform, and it's also on the bomb-free side way. What's interesting is that the center party is now later like they're a little bit against tolls. They sat with the Minister of Transport for eight years, but did nothing to reduce the share of tolls. They didn't do anything to reduce sideways either, it was almost a requirement to have a sideways bomb. It's very special that you made it difficult for the driver, but now it's high and dark in debate after debate and later it's like you're the car driver's friend. It's the opposite. Battle violence Vedum also talks about a charge on a car. I remind you of the previous period in the Energy and Environment Committee, as it was about how to increase taxes as a matter of urgency in order to phase out petrol and diesel. It should be noticed by the voters. It's very special that the center part is so tall and dark. The centre party has had a goal and a claim. They said they wanted to shut down the company, it was an airlock, and they want to put the transport policy back decades. They admit that they can relate to agreements that have been concluded, but the first thing they will do if they come into government is to place the company under the state road system, which would once again set the transport policy far, far back. That's saving 30 billion. kr for the ten years left, should have been money for the Center Party as well, but I wonder what their goal really is. It must be rather embarrassing – if it is a parliamentary expression – not to have read better and followed with better in the debate. As far as the Progress Party is concerned, everyone knows that we are primarily against tolls. Yes, we have reduced the share of the national transport plan, and in the portfolio of New Roads, as said, even the value added has increased by 63 billion. kr – 30 br. kr saved for society over 12 years, which we can reinvest in a new way, more way. 109 kilometers of highway means that. The centre party comes in another case here later this evening to propose two- and three-field roads. It puts transport policy back decades.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3588	This matter concerns something far more than tolls on some roads. The case concerns the spirit of the Advance Party. Tolls shake the party of progress in the base volleys. The lot with the trademark has suffered a severe reduction in taxes and taxes. Why such mobilization against the Progress Party out there among people today? Yes, it is, among other things. What State Council Dale now said -- he boasts of what's happening; it's a good day today. State council Dale struts of sea billilit, mosses herself with 15 billion. kr in increased tolls, and then the administrative costs are added. You listen to the Senter party. What is important is that the most central personality of the Progress Party is missing, the leader of the party from 1978 to 2006 – 28 years. The representative resigns as leader of the Toll Rebellion in the Advance Party, according to the Evening Post yesterday. There is a request for replacement today because he is in a meeting in Oslo City Hall. It's such a difficult day for Carl I. Hagen that the few understand how upset he is. For Hagen, the matter is taken up in his most serious national meeting in the Progress Party – the legendary national meeting from 15 to 17. April 1974, at Bolkesjö. There was a stirring internal battle between the party's liberalist versus traditionalist wing, at the national meeting where Hagen secured the party's soul. The majority of the country meeting – with Hagen at the head – cleared out the liberals, where FpU leader Lars Erik Gröntun and the circle around him stood centrally. For the Progress Party, politics and not positions were to be the most important, it was Hagen's line. I remember the legendary interview with Carl I. Hagen in NRK the time he said he had to cut out the tumor. He had to cut deep and cut far to get rid of it, once and for all. Hagen has always represented the traditionalist wing in the Progress Party. Now he is exploited by the forces of the party that see the government participation as more important than the party soul, which Hagen built up. Yeah, State Council Dale's beaming. When Carl I. Hagen resigned in 2006, polls showed that the Progress Party was about 30 p.m. No wonder that Hagen despairs, for it is the leader of the party, Siv Jensen, who runs hard against Hagen's progress party. The Toll cause of the Advance Party is based on the party's credibility. People understand. The lot trust failed. Obviously, the government could promote proposals to finance new roads without tolls. At that time, there had probably been fewer four-field highways, but with today's reaction among the population against more tolls, the Progress Party had obtained a broad majority for this in the Stortinget. Today's toll financing increased by 15 billion. kr is the choice of the Party of Advancement. Carl I. Hagen could not support such a violation of the party's credibility. There went the limit to him.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3606	Now the representative is not Carl I. Hagen here and can answer for himself, but the president does not believe that the country meeting at Bolkesjö was in 1974.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3611	That's right. It was in 1994.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3616	It was in 1994.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3621	I would like to begin by referring to the proposal by the Central Party and the Workers' Party on how much State guarantee sum Telemark County Municipality can bear, because I believe that several departments, several state councils and many of the representatives of the government parties have not fully taken on board the serious burden this feels to the state politicians. It's perceived out there as the representative Hansen is going to take up a loan to build a house, and then there's someone else who has to bail out for the loan. As an example, I can refer to a county municipality that I know relatively well: Rogaland County, which now has to guarantee some of the most expensive projects ever built in Norway. So the wording that the government parties have come up with, with a partial guarantee, is not really good enough. We in the Workers' Party believe that the Weigher must guarantee its own loans. So it's with a little wonder I hear that it's said that now it's going to be built some roads that a red-green government would never have built. Now it is that the ambitious NTP that was adopted and that the government of Solberg took over from 2013 was actually a red-green NTP. That means that it was a very ambitious NTP that was on the ground when the government took over, and I strongly reject that we would not have built roads, as the representative Johnsen so bramlessly asserted from the pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3628	First, to the representative Myrli. When we asked for these debates to be held on the same day, it was precisely because we expected to have a debate like the one we have now received. We have three toll propositions. All three are linked to New Roads. There are three different propositions, right, but we get a general toll debate. We thought it was useful to bring these debates together on the same day. We also offered that we could have a more extensive debate related to this, and bring it together in one debate instead of having three separate ones. I guess we don't have to repeat all the posts here twice-- except for a couple, maybe. It would give a more meaningful debate if we could have had such an extended debate and had a real round on it, preferably with a line change in addition, because I think that would have been more exciting for the listener. That was the background, but it wasn't like that. Now we run three schemes, and then we get a lot of the general debate related to the first toll proposition. So on to Myrli. It's very interesting that one pulls in Bombadilla Life. I had to google a little bit more. I found out that the song was released in 1989, and I suspect that the representative Myrli has humiliated it ever since. Because there are people who have participated and voted on all the toll propositions from that song, and until today, it's probably the Working Party. We are in charge of it, we are also, on the same line as a large majority in the Biggest. That also applies to the three toll proposals that we are going to adopt today. Even SV voted for all the toll proposals when they were put in government. This has broad support in the Storting and is the method of financing we have used for many years. This does not mean that we cannot make changes in the future and perhaps rethink, using new technologies and other things, but in these distance-wise projects, partial toll financing has been shown to increase the progress and speed up the construction of important projects across the country. In my opinion, you would like to continue humming on Bombadilla Life. The representative Myrli knows it by heart, I guess. I see no reason why we should not be able to use user funding in the future to make progress in these projects. I think a large part of this room agrees with that, and so a bit of the debate becomes strange when it appears that some parties here vote for it, acting as if they were against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3641	The President may add that it was the Franklin group that published Bombadilla Life in 1989.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3646	Now it's getting festive here, so this could be interesting beyond the evening. I hear that there are some parties – up to several – who talk the most about the goals and meaning of other parties in this matter. I must say that it is strange to hear from the Central Party that the toll collection is now too high. It was the representative Bengt Fasteraune who said it. But, to Bengt Fasteraune: It is possible to vote against. There is no need to vote in favour of these proposals. It's a democracy we live in, so you don't have to. And in terms of guarantees, that there should be a different distribution, that you can't put Telemark County Municipality in such a situation that they have to guarantee this: the Telemark County Municipality would like this. They've voted for it in the county. They think it's fine. They want this way. Then it is a prerequisite that they are actually involved and contribute with the guarantee. The Workers' Party can also vote against if it is so difficult with the arrangement we have agreed on in Stortinget for a long time now. New Roads are a success. Is that what irritates you the most? It wasn't even one who suggested it, but it's possible to share in the success of others.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3651	I have to say that I am a little confused by the Progress Party in this debate, because representatives Stordalen and Olsen from the Progress Party say that if the Senter Party's proposal that reduced costs should benefit the drivers, New Vegar will go down. Then they lose the motivation to do their social mission and to build a road. While the councillor, he says that the Center Party opens open doors. I'm confused, and I expect the council to tell you a little bit more about these doors that are being turned up, and who has the right of the Stordalen and Olsen on one side of the Progress Party or he on the other, for both can't be true at the same time. The central party believes that cost savings should benefit the car lists, a measure that will allow lower tolls, and we feel that the Progress Party should vote against them. It's disappointing. The representative Tor André Johnsen thinks I hit the nail on the head of the debate, because he said it was just changing the rule of action up to 4 p.m., so we had the money. There's the Progress Party's problem. They have the Minister of Finance, and the Minister of Finance is very pleased with the state budgets she has put forward. So that means that the Progress Party has not shown in any way how they will cover 13 billion. Every year to cut tolls. But maybe Siv Jensen is a third of the Progress Party that is not in agreement with either the Dale Council or the representatives of Stordalen, Olsen and Tor André Johnsen on the other hand. This is not a road between Langangen and Dørdal, this is part of the road between Stavanger and Oslo. It's important to build the whole way out. In the Rogaland municipality of Bjerkreim, which is on this road, local politicians have said that no, if the state wants to build roads through our municipality, they can do it; we should not oppose it, but we do not see it as our duty to ask for a toll scheme dictated by New Vegar. What is the reaction to New Roads? Well, then they threaten to stop building roads. I thought that the Progress Party has been in government every year, and it owes it to the local politicians that they have to set new records every single day in toll collection, but when local politicians say that this gets the state to take responsibility for it, the Progress Party is also failing there. I think it's time for some briefings. The step-by-step part is a toll section. No one has demanded more tolls than they did.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3666	The representative of Tor André Johnsen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3671	I have to comment on a little bit of the cheap rhetoric of the representative Battle Violence Vedum in the Central Party – and simply the disinformation in the case of lateral bombs, and in Hedmark, to which Battle Violence Vedum referred. On the E16, there's a bomb on the side roads. It's something the Center Party got to when they were in government. We've been trying to remove it, so far we haven't been able to get the rooms with us, but we've cut the bomb kits by 50 pst. In the case of E6, it was actually adopted by the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Red-Greens before we came into government, that there should be a bomb on the side roads. It's going to be totally wrong to blame it for our responsibility, and the Minister of Transport and we're now going to work to remove those bombs. In the case of E6 in Stage, the representative of Slagsvold Vedum's own municipality, even the representative of Trettebergstuen had to ask the Minister for Transport to introduce bomb exemptions for the local population. The current NTP, adopted by the Red-Greens, did not open to grant any bomb exemption in any area.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3681	I thought I would get even more thin for my statements in 2013 from this pulpit. There is no doubt that I took a little bit of Møller's tran that time, and that it makes just as bad to vote for tolls now. But I think in the name of propriety that these in the opposition who are so very concerned about criticising the government and especially the Advance Party, can go back and see what has actually been suggested since the last NTP. Did Langangen-Ruchtvedt then lay in by 2023? No, no, no. No money from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV – zero kroner – was included in the proposal as the Senter Party had the Minister for Transport. I think it's good to have it with me, too. So this is going to be right over here. It's going to be done about 2023. This was something the Progress Party pointed out that it was important to put in place at national level. I also record that several representatives have been up and boasted that the speed limit is 110 km/h. The representative Navarsete, who was the Minister of State and Transport, said that she would not have a speed limit of 110 km/h on this road, neither on the one you were building, and on which it is 110 km/h, or on this one that is now built 110 km/h. It's okay to boast, and it's nice to boast, but then you should also be honest and honest about what you would do if the Center Party, the Workers' Party and SV had been in government. So there was zero kroner for Langangen–Ruchtvedt in the last proposal for the National Transport Plan from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV. I think it's okay to bring it with me. One of the first things I had to do when I entered the Ministry of Transport as State Secretary after the red-greens had gone off was look at a project where there were cost exceedances in the hundreds of millions. It's no wonder I've been grayed out. There is no doubt that I tore myself quite a lot of hair to see how to find more government funds after the red-green ones, which seemed to be good just to put on the drivers a rush of tolls. I have to ask – I assume that the Central Party has agreed on all the toll projects we have presented, because they have voted in favour of all the toll projects submitted by this government, which have thus reduced the toll burden and have taken action to reduce the cost of the drivers: Would there be more or less tolls with the Senter party? That would be more, because they would not cut off the toll projects that the Progress Party in the government made to remove – in Alta, the Urban Package Grenland, Seljord, Åmot and several other places in the country. In terms of credibility, I think the Center Party should go and sit down and rather be satisfied that there is now a government that both builds a path at a completely different pace, and assigns the drivers 10 billion. kr less than the Senterpartie did when they were in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3696	After all, we can look at the cost increase on the Free E39 if we are to talk about exceedances in relation to the previous government. It is quite right that the Workers' Party has not voted in favour of a single toll proposal more than the Progress Party, but we have voted in favour of all those proposed by the Progress Party for this major issue. The progressing party lulls itself into cheaper, better and faster, and it completely without a single investigation or any completed project. We agree that Nye Veier is good, but the total transport sector is completely out of control. In the national transport plan, it is said to be 1 000 billion. kr. Two years into the plan, the government is 16 billion. kr at its own level and the exceedances are foreshadowed by the total amount to be financed, including on rail. 1 000 B.C.E. I'm going to have $6 billion. kr less than the working party had ambitions. The Labour Party had greater ambitions than this government in building trades in the country. The party of progress is only fooling itself and is indebted to everyone else but itself – even if they rule the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3707	The representative Tryve Schlagsvold Vedum has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3712	It is a fact that more tolls have never been collected in Norway than in 2019, calculated at 40 pst. more toll collection in 2019 than in 2013. When the Progress Party has ruled Norway, together with the Right, for six years: 40 pst. more tolls. That's what's calculated; it's a fact. Prime Minister Erna Solberg boasted loudly when she presented the state budget a few years ago, saying that the government has increased fuel charges more in one year than in eight red-green years — the end of the quote. Carl I. Hagen shines with his absence today, precisely because he sees that it is a fundamental breach with the tradition of the Progress Party that we are now increasing the toll load by over 20 billion. One month ago, when you said to cut tolls by 100 billion. kr – that is, just words. And today, the Progress Party is voting against a concrete proposal that can reduce the toll burden, because position is more important than penetration.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3719	Today, the Stortinget deals with three toll propositions, and the one we are dealing with is the E18 in Telemark, which is very important for the development of the region. I note that the debate is largely about tolls. Bombengar has a long tradition in Norwegian history, also in Telemark. I think of the toll station between Skien and Porsgrund, where it cost 5 kroner for each passage, and who does not think of the Kjellstadbommen in Lier, which stood from 1975 to 2001. These bombs are gone now, and I think it's because people accept to pay: one feels that one gets better road solutions, one feels safer, and the industry feels that the goods are coming faster. Tolls are no new or Norwegian invention. It has been used for hundreds of years to get better road solutions, for ferries and for bridges. The very first toll proposition adopted by Stortinget was the Vrengen Bru in Westfold, between Tjøme and Nøtterøy, in 1929 – 90 years ago. The bridge was solemnly opened in 1932 by King Haakon. The toll collection lasted 30 years, until 1962. Right has a pragmatic view of the use of tolls, but respects that people say that there can be too much. But I don't think we'd want to go back to a time when it took decades from a project to be fully regulated, until the spade was seen in the ground. A moment I think will be important to look forward to, is if there are other new technological solutions that can be used to divide the burden of major infrastructure projects, such as: the putting into service of new technologies in vehicles. It has been an acceptance among the people and the populace that if you want to build faster and find better environmental transport solutions, you have to make use of a splinter layer. It must be for a period during which the State takes its share of the costs. There have been a lot of toll projects in Stortinget since the Wraith Bridge in 1929, and I believe it will continue, because the alternative is a lower rate of development of important infrastructure improvements.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3736	The representative Helge Place has the word twice before and gets the word to a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3741	If he had been concerned about reducing tolls, he would not have voted against all the reforms that we have just proposed in order to reduce costs in the development of important transport projects. The establishment of Nye Veier was the centre party against, the Workers' Party against and SV against. And what is the result of that? What we see now is that we can build cheaper, faster and better than we've done before, which means less burden on the state and less burden on the drivers. Then I am fascinated when the same representative, Battle Violence Vedum, accuses this government of demanding a lot of tolls. I do not remember a single toll project the Senterpartiet has voted against – not a single toll project. So if nothing else, he can at least stand on this pulpit and be co-responsive.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3748	It's a little embarrassing, I'll almost say, when one hears the Labour Party and the SV's attempt to appear as occupied by the toll level in Norway. Not a penny is required in tolls on the national road project, as far as I have an overview of which the Centre Party and the Labour Party have not voted in favour. When you make this funding proposition a big question about tolls, it's nothing but an attempt at political games. The time of history from the representative Lundtigen to the right is more like a story for Rorbua at the NRK than for the time of history in the school, but it's getting so much worse. What we are discussing today is the financing of important road projects. It's a pretty solid financing arrangement. The road projects that we are discussing today, and all the calculations to which the representatives have referred today, are therefore based on the fact that, for example: has an interest rate of 6,5 p.p., while we know that the average interest rate for all projects is 1,89 p.p. For those with interest rate hedges - all projects - the average interest rate is 2.68 pst. We may not need to collect all these tolls that the Storting is currently setting the framework for doing, for a framework to finance the road project so long that it is safe to make the investments in them. So I say, as I have said before, that when the discussion is about how much toll is being reduced in this project, and how much is being reduced in the coming ones, all the money goes back to the car list, because the way we've looked up New Roads, makes the money stay in the company. This means that if not all the crowns are going to reduce tolls in this project, the next project can receive faster and better funding — and perhaps lower tolls on it as well. So in sum, the propositions we are discussing today are contributing to the stable financing of major quadruple motorways. What we've heard today is an opposition that agrees that the Progress Party should have had a greater impact on a policy that they themselves oppose. That's interesting enough. But we've also heard an opposition that agrees on just that. SV shall continue to have trees, but they shall not weigh. The center party would like to build a road, but they don't want to save the money we save through New Roads, because it's a company they'd rather not have. The Labour Party says that they would like to see if someone other than those who said they'd guarantee, to guarantee it, but they vote for every penny in a toll. The opposition has one thing in common – they want more FrP coverage. So do I.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3761	The representative Geir Pollestad has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3766	On 14 June 2016, we discussed one part of this project. At that time, the government had added a higher toll than that of the national transport plan. It seemed that the Senterpartiet was wrong on 14 June 2016, so we suggested that one should have more government funds, so that the toll part was at the same level as in the national transport plan, i.e. less toll than the government had proposed. What did the Progress Party do to its representatives in the hall? They voted against lowering the tolls. Now we are in part two of the project. There's a proposal from the Central Party that if this gets cheaper, it's going to benefit the drivers. What warning do you want to give the Progress Party that they will vote? They wanted to vote against it. I understand that Carl I. Hagen is at Oslo City Hall today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3777	So let's clear this up a little bit. Bombs in the big cities and tolls to finance roads, which we are discussing here today, in these three projects, are really two different things. Tolls are desirable in large cities to regulate car traffic. Elsewhere, as in the three cases today, tolls are used to finance a road, and once the road is financed, the toll stations are removed. I think we should be so honest and say that financing roads with tolls really isn't very effective. Tolls have the effect that tolls will give rise to a certain form of traffic rejection, and tolls will, in part, lead to heavy collection costs. Actually – in a non-profit world – we should have funded several road projects over the tax bill and through the state budget, but at least there is no majority in this Chamber. So by accepting bombs, we're going to have more built-up roads. That's why it's been accepted for tolls and therefore tolls have been increasingly used: we're getting more roads built. The working party is for tolls, but we think that road pricing would be a more efficient and fairer system. So then, until we get road pricing in place, we're voting for road toll financing, and the projects we've voted for in the last six years, are all submitted by Progress Party state councils. So I would say, during the national meeting in the Progress Party, the big thing was that the Progress Party would cut 200 million. kr in tolls. When the revised budget was presented, we saw it: three toll projects, and it turns out that in two of the projects the bombs were to be demolished immediately anyway. 200 million. So kr was presented as a big deal. Today, the Progress Party is voting to bring in another 22 billion. NOK in tolls – 110 times as much as the 200 million. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. It's not nice that people react to this. I have been on the home page of the Progress Party and have seen if there is anything to say that they will vote for 22 billion. kr. It's nothing. I have followed with me today to see if there will be any press release from the Progress Party saying that tonight they will vote for 22 billion new tolls. No, there has been no press release, but there was a lot going on when they were going to cut 200 million. kr. So today they vote for 110 times more in tolls. Just to clarify it: the Labour Party of course votes in favour of the proposal of the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3793	The representative Bengt Fasterale has held the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3798	This debate has shown that the only reason for postponing the debate was the internal conditions of the Progress Party, well described by the representative Lundtägen on the spirit of the Progress Party. So there was no other reason. Yes, I'd say to the representative Gunnes, we're worried about the cost of the drivers when we have these big projects. I just want to remind you that when the Stortinge approves the revised budget on Friday, the 430 million. which could benefit the individual driver on Norwegian roads. In addition, the government parties are voting down our proposal to reduce the burden on the drivers when costs are reduced. That's what happens in just two days. That's why we're worried about the costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3805	Rorbua is both funny and funny, but what we're experiencing here with the Dale Council is just tragic. The council wants to ignore Carl I. Hagen. He can do that, but Hagen is now once an institution in the party, so I think Hagen is more steady than the Council of State. It is true that the red-green government did not have money for the E18 Langangen–Dørdal. It didn't want to suggest that much toll. It is precisely because the Progress Party has run so hard with tolls that one has been able to boast of so many road projects. But all the boasts have a back, and the back is tolls. The first people we met who really objected to the extensive tolls were the truck drivers, who early told me: Per, that's enough! Don't you understand that this doesn't go any further? No one was listening to them. It just went on. Gradually it reached more and more, and it became a social uprising. The progress party just chooses to run on, because here a sun will set in new four-field roads at 110 km/h and really enjoy what you're doing. But then one must also be willing to take the burden, namely that people stand up to such a policy. It's just poor land building a road with bombs. I traveled in the United States early in the 1970s. The Americans have small budgets at federal level and had early tolls. Norway did not operate it at that time, because we were a country that had the economy and a large Community economy and financed it with the tax money. But then the American culture also came to Norway, and we got tolls, and they were going to be time the solution around on the highways that connected the country. It is this which has to be debated. We have to get back to prioritizing harder and being more sober. We need to give a level playing field to New Roads and the State Road Service as long as we have New Roads, so that they can have equivalent conditions, and so that we ensure that there is consistency between what we invest and what we have of labour, machinery and equipment to deliver – without cost increases. What we are facing is that we must give more priority. We can't just blow out and say, "If you take it, you can take it," and then go on with tolls. State Council Dale only chooses to run on. Carl I. Hagen's not here. I agree much more with Carl I. Hagen in this matter than I've ever been before.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3824	Representatives have been concerned that a number of facts have been overlooked. I want to ask the question: Do you grow up yourself by harassing others? I think the answer is no. It's a method you use when you're tormented yourself. There is also a method of getting attention away from your own misconceptions and mistakes. I admit it smoothly: I am weak for the smell of asphalt, also in Telemark. I have recorded in the debate that has been tonight that when you lack arguments, you take the man and not the ball. You take the man for the whole three minutes, even if the man isn't there. It's a direct elegant. I also see that the Central Party and the Workers' Party in this case will vote in favour of something they strongly argue against. It makes it fully visible that there is more interest in rhetoric and personal awareness and that it should shape the debate. The rhetoric became more important than both the case and the results. We build roads, we build more roads, we build roads cheaper, we build roads faster, and we build them with a quality and a security that makes both passenger and business traffic safe. Building roads faster and cheaper, saving billions and millions, should really be worth a debate. Where in the world were the Centre Party and the Workers' Party, which saw not in any other way to organise this, so that we could use the Community funds for other purposes, both within the transport sector and within other social areas of our country? It is necessary to look at new ways of organising the sector, in terms of road construction, efficiency and price tagging. When I hear that there is concern about the costs of the drivers, I share that concern, but that concern must be placed in the debate that should have been, about where in the world the Senter Party and the Workers' Party were when one did not want to see another way to organise this, when the results are now that we are saving billions and millions. It is to waste with the Community funds not to be willing to look at other methods. I end up where I started: the smell of asphalt I'm charmed by, but you don't get bigger yourself by harassing others and just focusing on rhetoric and person.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3839	After following the debate on this matter, I regret to say that I am horrified. We live at a time when nature sends out debt collection notices at debt collection notices, where climate change and extreme weather are becoming more and more urgent, and where the timelock we have to consult to prevent a temperature increase that does not come out of control completely becomes shorter and shorter. What, then, is the contribution of the two largest opposition parties when the Stortinge will discuss and adopt three separate important road projects? – Yes, unisone attacks on the Toll Institute, a systematic strategy to get the debate to deal with tolls and thoughtful planned attacks on the Progress Party – or, as the representative Lundtegen said in his first post, this case is about far more than tolls, it is about the spirit of the Progress Party. No, the three transport cases that Stortinget will deal with tonight are about three separate important road projects, three projects that could not have been realised without the co-financing of tolls. The Toll Institute, the willingness to do what is behind, has decided to take on a very large number of necessary road projects – with quite a number of local politicians in this room who had never had an increase in traffic safety, or racially important road for their own inhabitants, businesses and other road users without tolls. In cities, the Toll Institute – in addition to being a crucial co-financing source – also has an important and essential function to regulate traffic and to deal with the climate, the climate and the environment. It is not difficult to build roads without tolls; we only build smaller roads. No matter how much the Labour Party and the Centre are willing to re-prioritize from health care, hospitals, care for the elderly, culture, agriculture, no matter how much more oil money they will deposit into the State budget, each krona is smaller in toll revenue than a krona – so simple. It is also not difficult to build the public or walking and cycling network in cities without tolls; the pace only goes down monthly, and the queues in and out of cities will increase again. The same thing will be true for greenhouse gas emissions and air pollution. Is that what the Labour Party and the Center Party want when they now surpass each other in the struggle to be the most populist to sank voters? Or are they in agreement with Lundtigen, who in his last speech took the initiative to give priority – understood: to speak against one or more of the issues we are dealing with tonight?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3850	The representative Myrli bombs about the toll policy. The representative said in his speech that the purpose of urban bokming was primarily to reduce traffic, while for individual reasons it was to finance the road transport chain. That's not true. Of course, the representative Myrli knows Oslopakket 1, Oslopakket 2 and Oslopakket 3. The bombs that were set up with those packages have financed the Fortress Tunnel and the Granfoss Tunnel and provided a much better reach in the capital than it once was. Had it not been used, traffic had continued to rise and down through the town hall street. The planning of Oslopackak 1 actually provided for a traffic growth from 1994 to 2000 of 40 pst. Traffic should therefore increase in order to be able to finance both the road development and the collective development that has been possible. With regard to the statements made by Mr Lundtigen, he said that only poor countries are building roads with bombs. Then I have to ask the representative Lundtegen if he has moved on a road in Europe. If you go to Germany or Italy and drive on the roads there, actually a lot of them are toll-financed, so it must be due to a manifest misunderstanding. And if you want to follow the reasoning of the representative Lundteigen and draw the logical consequence of it, I think that the representative Lundtegen is against all the bridges built in District Norway based on toll financing. It says there's a bomb, you had to pay to finance the bridge -- how would it be in the districts if you hadn't tied them up with the bridges and got the ferries replaced?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3859	It might be okay with some facts in this case. Enthusiasm is good, but the facts are not to be despised either, I tend to say. I think that actually applies in this case. That's something I didn't get to say before, but there's talk of grants. We have a grant scheme to write down toll projects in the districts. It's over 500 million. kr per year, and in 2018, 40 of the projects benefit from that write-down. There's something that benefits the districts, and we've done more of these writings. Some projects have become 0 and some projects have received a downward adjustment. Then you say it's so great. Yes, you can look at individual projects, and there are probably examples that it is expensive to collect. But when you look at the annual statistics on the proportion of tolls going to the administration, it's now down to record 7.1 pst. It started somewhere between 13 and 14 pst. Now it's down to 7.1 pst, and it's decreasing. So it's like we have a national transport plan. We had one in 2014, and it was 678 billion. kr. 109 B.C.E. Tolls were tolls. Corresponding to the plan we're in now: if we reduce to 10 years instead of 12, it's 886 billion. kr. The tolls are still $109 billion. kr. There's a percentage decrease in the use of tolls in this NTP versus that in the previous one. So I want to say, as I was at the beginning, that road pricing is probably good and good, but one of the benefits of tolls, as we have today, is that you see which roads get the money. A runner on a new route. One is willing to pay for what has come. If you're going to make a more diffuse system, at least you have to make sure that people on the road realize that they're now involved in paying for the road, otherwise you lose legitimacy. That is the great danger of the debate we are having here and the debate that is out there: that the legitimacy of toll financing should be lost. You think there are other sareptase jars that can replace this money, but that's not the case. When you started using tolls in its time, it was the big cities, Bergen and Oslo, that started. That's because you realized that you didn't get the funds that went into these big cities to develop the transport system there. It was a virtue of necessity, and that's why we have the system that the states are part of the guarantee. That's why we have the system that there should be agreement on these the projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3876	I must say I was a little surprised when I heard the debate earlier. Here is the representative from the opposition who is more concerned about the Progress Party and tolls. Some people talk about Bolkesjö, about the party's soul, as self-appointed commentators. And when you find your cut, they're going to be taken. I think it creates more political contempt than the government's toll compromise. The few people here talk about how much – or rather how little – they themselves want to build out, but it may not be so strange. The working party presented a motorway plan in 1962, which was placed neatly on the shelf. There was the lying – and lying – and lying – until it was out of date. In my home country, West Agder, the discussion about building a road over Kvinesheia took so long that when it finally finished in 2006, it was already out of date. It was already too narrow according to the road plans. Now the bombs are removed over the heath due to the Progress Party in government – before time to notice. The Labour Party in the neighbouring municipality arranges to continue the same toll collection in order to subsidise the route and cycle path in its own municipality. Before the 2013 elections, we said that road development should speed up – and yes, preferably without tolls. The red-green government presented a national transport plan of 500 billion. kr. This government – with the Advance Party – has presented a national transport plan of 1 000 billion. kr. While the red-greens would build two- and three-field roads on most of the road between Kristiansand and Stavanger, the then Minister of Transport had to send an instruction to the State Road Administration that one had to start planning for the four-field highway, and that it was the only thing. So there's someone here that I know would rather have road pricing than tolls. But one does not remove the problem for that. The only thing you do then, is move the taximeter into the car to people, and I can't see that it gets better at all. In fact, taxes and taxes related to cars have decreased with this government, and for the first time we spend more money on the road than we take into account taxes and taxes related to cars. In fact, I do not believe that the debate will be reduced to just tolls, Bolkesjø or what my good colleague Bård Hoksrud or Siv Jensen said in 2013, both with and without Møller's crane. This is about so much more, about both road safety and accessibility for future generations.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3887	I note that representatives from the Progress Party are going to the pulpit and want to focus on the Central Party on the level of tolls in Norway – despite the fact that since 2013, the Progress Party has been part of a majority that has ruled Norway, part of a majority government today, where the Progress Party sits with the Minister for Transport, where the Progress Party sits with the Minister for Finance. Toll levels have never been higher in Norway than they are today. When the Progress Party took over power, the level of tolls was approx. 9 B.C.E. kr. This year it is expected to stay at approx. 13 B.C.E. kr. Representatives from the Progress Party say that the Centre Party does not have any new proposals and is talking about opening doors, but the Centre Party has put forward concrete proposals to ensure that all cost reductions in the projects we are dealing with today will benefit the drivers. The representatives of the Progress Party have the opportunity to secure a majority of the proposals in the Chamber today, if they vote in favour of them, but instead they are behind the proposition, where there is another policy. That's exactly the same thing as in the revised national budget, which we're going to deal with in two days. Once again, the Progress Party will be given the opportunity to vote in favour of concrete proposals from the Centre Party on the benefit of the driving lists through reduced tolls of all cost reductions in the OPS projects contained in the revised national budget. Then we'll see if the representatives of the Progress Party vote differently on Friday from what they have announced today. Unfortunately, it does not look promising to those who are concerned with the real thing, namely to reduce tolls, and are not concerned with misusing, as the representatives of the Progress Party have done in this debate. Now at the end of the debate, you also experience that both the representative Igstad and the representative Meininger Saudland argue against road pricing and talk about not moving toll stations into the cars to people, just as the Minister for Transport has spent time in debates earlier. But what is in the remarks in this case? Well, it's just that one believes that today's system is not working well enough, and that it is necessary to look at how new technologies in vehicles and traffic management can help achieve new solutions. In practice, there is road pricing that lies there, but then one sees that it is not popular, and tries to give another impression.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3898	I'm already looking forward to the case no. 11 and 12! That the representative Pollestad is confused is nothing new. Just a few years ago he was at Dagsnytt 18 and said that Nye Veier – who is going to build the 530 km quadruple highway at 110 km/h – was an airlock and would put Norwegian road construction ten years back in time. Now we see that they're going to build eight years faster and about. 30 B.C.E. kr cheaper. Tonight we deal with three motorway projects with four fields and 110 km/h, and where it is free to drive sideways. The projects are being built faster, and they're being built 8 billion. kr cheaper. I would like to be fully implemented to finance the roads through the state budget, but it does not want our cooperation parties or the Stortinget. But we get highways for every ear. That's how we build the country, and at the next crossroads, we work to increase government appropriations even more, so that the drivers get off cheaper. So far, only the Progress Party on the Storting is fighting for this. The representative, Lundtigen, is calling for Carl I. Hagen. Well, a stone's throw away is treating Oslo City Council in the evening of Oslopackak 3. This is of the projects that people are really frustrated by, and that the toll uprising is about. Here the drivers have to pay, but see that 98 pst. used on anything other than road – such as bus, track, cycle paths, pedestrian paths and collective. Here the Progress Party and Carl I. Hagen vote against – as the only party. In government, we have achieved that such urban packages will only be implemented if they are locally adopted, and so far it is in local elections that we can influence such matters. At the latest polls in Stavanger, Sandnes, Oslo and Bergen we see that approx. 25 pst. wish to vote in opposition to a bomb. So the rest want these bombings, and I'm tempted to say that the other 75 pst. – who vote at the Centre Party, the Workers' Party and the other parties – deserves to pay each cent. For the others, I promise to continue the fight against tolls, and I think the negotiations we have started with the other government parties will lead to further relief for the drivers.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3911	The position is offended that the opposition points to the toll show launched by the Progress Party. It was the position that postponed matters due to the National Governing Board meeting of the Progress Party on 5 June. The debate is downgraded, according to Meininger Saudland. Yes, it is a little pleasant for the Progress Party to hear how they are perceived – and for a political game the party started. But the Right Party, the Left Party and the Christian Party also bear responsibility for this, because they have backed it up. The Labour Party has never denied that we have voted in favour of toll projects. The working party does not have such a bad spine that we do something in Stortinget and tell the voters something else. To the Progress Party, it's the following to say: Stand by the party that votes for today and be honest about it. Then they might be able to restore some respect out there among the voters.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3919	Listening to the debate in the Chamber tonight – for a former Minister for Trade – I must really say that the world has turned its head. I stood here schooling every Wednesday in the oral Question Time with Mr. Arne Sortevik and Mr. Per Sandberg. They asked their questions, fully, every week, and there was a lot of toll on it. And it was at a time when the toll section was 6-7 billion. kr. Today we have come up with the double – and the Progress Party operates with full disclaimer! The Left and Right are at least so decent that they defend what they're into, they should have it, but the Progress Party, which was the biggest opponent of tolls – I don't have all the debates I put into Per Sandberg. We were favorite opponents and raised well the trade in that period, we contributed to it both, I think. We really got speed on transportation and increased the frame by 45 pst. It wasn't that stupid, either. But what's happening today? Will the Progress Party vote in favour of our proposal that all cost reductions should benefit drivers through reduced tolls? No, it doesn't sound like that. They will not vote in favour of our proposals either, for example. about cutting the commuting deduction. They are not concerned that those who live around and really depend on the car will get reduced costs. It was mentioned in a previous article that they were 25 pst. who are opponents of tolls, will vote on a toll party, but they should not vote on the Progress Party, because they are not against tolls. And what they also have in mind is that many people don't see the relationship between tolls and money. We had a clear policy in our time, when we were in government, that there was going to be a connection between what one paid and the benefits one had of the tolls. Okay, there's a big indirect benefit in the urban packages, but with the strong increase that the government has brought – not least around the cities – it's clear that people don't see the benefit of the car list as a whole. Ergo has the enormous resistance we see in most cities, grow up. I understand that there is a new party, because the Progress Party is simply not to be trusted. Representative Hoksrud named 110 km/h. It's right that I was skeptical about it. It's about road safety. Not wanting tolls on side roads is also a matter of road safety – when channelling that traffic into side roads, usually through residential areas, where road safety is reduced by this government. It's also very negative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3936	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3941	I have also registered the representative Navarsete standing here and boasting of how great and how great it is with tolls. It wasn't exactly the same now, so maybe a little propriety also back from the representative Navarsete had been good. With regard to the speed limit of 110 km/h, we see that there has been no significant increase in the accidents, rather on the contrary, it has actually been very successful since it was increased. So that scepticism, it wasn't exactly sceptical, because Navarsete said clearly and clearly to the magazine of the East that she didn't want it. Then I register that the representative Pollestad would not answer my question, and that might not be so strange either. To the representative Per Olaf Lundtigen: you see that he disagrees with all of his own, so it could be interesting to invite him over, since he had agreed with Carl I. Hagen, but I guess I'm not sure if he really wants to. But after listening to his post: He disagreed with all his own, for the Senter party in my home country votes for every toll proposition and thinks this is very good. It doesn't do the Progress Party, which fights against them locally and works to get rid of them. We want less tolls and more government funding.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3952	I notice that we are about to clear the Progress Party for speaking time, so we will see how long this can last. It's interesting to follow up on this debate. When you want to build more highways, you get more tolls – if you are not willing to pay that bill. And if there's one thing we know about the Progress Party, it's that they're very happy away – they should have – and they're very opposed to tolls. The problem is that they are infinitely more happy away than they are against tolls. Then the situation is that there has never been as much toll as now. And it hasn't been a problem before you started looking at the polls. Then there was a crisis in the Progress Party. Then a sudden postponement of things in this room – without a comma being changed when things came to the hall, not even a comma was changed. Then all the parliamentary work was to be watched over, because there were crisis conditions in the Progress Party, where no world's things happened. That's the show we were invited into. It reminds me that here we have a party that is extremely happy to promise, and then left one account to others, and when it's revealed, it's a crisis, then it's not their fault. Then one should put the debt on absolutely everyone else and think that one should be able to get away with it. It's fascinating -- I've been saying something unparliamentary, but we get to stick to "intriguing". And then the representative Hoksrud demands propriety – in such a situation. How far has one then come to try to trick both themselves and the rest of Norway's population. At least the left has a propensity when we point out that climate change is increasing in this country. Then at least the left tries to explain it and say they're working on it. They're not just trying to blame everyone else, they're trying to take that responsibility, they're in a government where the emission actually increases. When we point out to the Christian People's Party that child poverty has never been so great, that there are over 100,000 children living in persistent poverty, and that it has increased and increased for every day that goes with this government, the Christian People's Party is actually trying to take responsibility for having seen us in this situation. When we confront Right that there are dark clouds over Norwegian business – pointed at by the NHO – they actually try to explain it and say that they have things going on etc. But the Progress Party: It's never their fault, it's just their win. To put it this way: Carl I. Hagen's party, the Progress Party, is now gone. They have joined the government and have not been able to find themselves and try to blame everyone else.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3967	When the representative Hoksrud says that Navarsette stood and boasted or at least praised tolls, Navarsette probably didn't do it, but she took responsibility for what she and her party were in government. That's the difference between the Center Party and the Progress Party. The center party always took responsibility for it, but remember that then we had a level of approx. half of what you have today. This government represents a gigantic growth in tolls. Nevertheless, one of the representatives from the Progress Party is standing after the other, saying that they are the biggest opponents of the Tolls. Is it nice that people out there get pretty confused? One will expect that big business representatives will be a little more concerned with reality and the truth. In addition, a government with the Advance Party has increased the fuel charges in one year more than the red-green ones did in eight years. It's a quote from Prime Minister Erna Solberg, and then it's probably true. Again: Erna Solberg as Prime Minister takes responsibility for what Right is involved, and it also does the Christian People's Party and the Left, which the previous speaker had good examples of. But the Progress Party – njet! The party of progress, they act as if they never sat in government, and never would it have been better to reveal the double communication that the party of progress has been allowed to hold on for the entire reigning period. One does something and talks like one does something completely different. It's time for it to be revealed, and this time they're – I'm sorry, the expression – taken with their pants really low. In addition, it is clearly revealed today that there was no reason to postpone these matters. It was simply for the Progress Party to get a little more calm about its crisis meeting. The intern medicine of the Progress Party made a postponement of matters in this room. Does that show respect for the work of Stortinge – from a party that should be both the law-and-order-party and the party for the reduction of taxes and taxes? Is it strange that someone doesn't recognize the game? It's completely impossible to recognize it. For those of us who have been involved in politics for a while, both inside and outside the government, the party has been turned upside down, as I said in my previous post. It is also time for the Progress Party to grow up to take responsibility for their policies, not for the policy of individual representatives to want them to lead – as if they were in opposition and not in position. Because there's something about being frustrated, sitting and negotiating for days and nights – and one might say that they don't know what they're talking about – but the responsibility has to take, because it's one thing when you rule the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3978	The representative Sverre Myrli has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3983	It was the representative of Harek Elvenes who made me speak – Elvenes, who otherwise only has one vote on his voice, and it is max. He claimed in his post that I had been wrong, and then I must clarify: I think quite certainly I said that in the big cities there is a need for tolls to regulate car traffic. But, of course, tolls in big cities are also used as a source of funding – it is obvious. It is to the extent that we have a dilemma that if we succeed in the policy of regulating car traffic, we get less income. But it's a discussion we'll have to take later. So let me make it clear: we use tolls in big cities, also to finance roads, public transport, walking and cycling roads and other important measures. And I fully agree that Oslopackakt 1, Oslopackakt 2 and Oslopackakt 3 have served Oslo and Akershus very well over the past 30 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e3990	There are several representatives who try to give the impression that the Progress Party does not take responsibility by sitting in government, responsible for the policy of the government. I just want to remind you that I started my post by saying that this is a good day. We are putting forward three necessary proposals for financing important motorway projects for which we are all in favour. Of course, we are behind the suggestions we have made. What characterises the same representatives who believe that the Progress Party does not take responsibility for government policy is that they have spent most of their time – not entirely – talking about wanting the Progress Party to have had a greater impact on toll policy. That the Progress Party representatives respond to it by saying that they should want it too, I didn't think I was particularly strange. But let there be no doubt – today Stortinget also adopted toll propositions. This is because the parties that are currently trying to give the impression that they are fundamentally opposed to this form of funding – which is now, for almost three hours, trying to give the impression that they are against these toll propositions – are currently voting for each crown of what is available. Then you can make this a competition for anyone who is trying to avoid the greatest possible responsibility. We stand for the responsibility we take. We rule a country, and we rule a country well. When the Center Party tries to boast of 45 pst. In the transport loops for the eight years they put in government, we can boast of 75 pst. The first six years we've been in government. What's real is that the level of tolls goes down in the national transport plan we've delivered, while the path goes up. So what separates the opposition party from each other today is that there are several parties in this room that think we're spending too much money on increasing road construction, but they're going to keep up the toll pressure in many other places. I think this is a good day because we're funding the necessary, safe and coherent pathway between our cities: in this project, Oslo-Kristiansand, and later the extension of the E39 Kristiansand–Stavanger, project around Trondelag that strengthens the region, the whole E6 extension, for which New Vegar is responsible, all the way to Otta. Continual expansion is our responsibility, the funding is our responsibility, and we also take responsibility for the part of what has been paid by the car list. Therefore, the work that all the other parties have been against continues to reduce tolls – for all drivers in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4005	I guess it's not just the opposition – at least most of the parties here – who are voting for these tolls; so is the Progress Party. I have registered that they have been very dissatisfied with themselves after having had the Minister of Transport and the Minister of Finance for six years, and I agree with them. There's reason to be dissatisfied. What the Council of State was now saying also shows one of the main problems: not being close to the most important challenge we have in the future: reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Then we actually have to turn the effort from building large highways to expanding public transport, which allows people to move on without polluting, and there are possible many places in the country. Here I record that the Progress Party is most opposed when there are tolls that go to solutions that can reduce emissions. And there's going to be greater emissions of more roads. That's it. If the government had listened to SV, we could have had a tax system that had given them relief with income less than NOK 600 000, so they had better advice. Then there would have been less climate emissions and less tolls, but with this government being the opposite. Nor can it be forgotten in this debate on tolls that it is also not free for those who take the bus or train. And they pay evenly, regardless of income, they too. So the double game that the Progress Party has now been on for a long time is revealed a long time ago by people. One day they howl and scream, and the next day they vote for exactly the same toll. We've seen this game over the last few weeks here on Stortinget. What people need are safe roads in the districts – improvements, maintenance, road safety and racial protection. SV suggests building and upgrading the roads, with yellow centre stripe, mid pulley and protection against race. And we are in favour of a large-scale effort on public transport, so that people can actually move without polluting as much as they do now. We have gone against the huge projects that increase car traffic and emissions, and we support the use of tolls to remove cows and pollution in cities. That's the way we have to go if we're going to take responsibility and see the young people in the eyes who've stood here outside the Storting and told us that the way we're going now doesn't get emissions down, and it doesn't solve the social problems we're facing, or gives good opportunities for people across the country to move on without pollution increasing.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4020	I notice that the representative Myrli chooses to take the player and not the ball, but it is so far a human reaction when one's own argument falls to the ground. But the representative Myrli is supposed to have that in his second post he clarified the value of the three Oslo packages. And with respect to reporting, everything else would be directly alarming. So it was Oslo City Council and Akershu County Council which in 1986 was in favour of Oslopackak 1. And Oslopackak 1, 2 and 3 have improved significantly in Oslo City – Tåsentunnelen, Ekebergtunnelen, Fortress Tunnel, the ring road system has been repaired, and the last bottleneck in the ring road system was repaired in 1999. So the representative Myrli came up with a valuable clarification of his first post. So to the Central Party, which in this debate is going very hard on the fact that the Progress Party does not get a sufficient impact on its primary position in the toll case. I think I have to remind you that the Senter Party was in a government – where the Senter Party in its programme is opposed to the EEA. I do not know how many EEA Directives the Senterpartie voted against when the EEA Directives were to be dealt with in Stortinget. So, if there's life and learning you're trying to point out in your posts, you can search your own doing and load into similar things that the Center Party has been doing, and then I think the Center Party might be familiar with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4030	The representative, Liv Signe Navarsete, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4035	Just a little case information to the Minister for Transport: 45 pst. growth was in the first four-year period. Then there came another 45 pst. growth in the NTP for the second four-year period, and we follow them up. The NTP from 2009 was actually followed up in the second period. And this I'm not quite sure, but I understand that the government today might not be quite up to date with the plan, with it being another bowl. To the EEA: It was very clear – it was on the platform that we wanted to see that EU cases did not appear on the agenda. It was very important for the Central Party that we did not get a new round with the EU. We also said that we should govern on the basis of the EEA Agreement, but it was made clear in the platform. Does the platform say that the Progress Party should take a lot of tolls? I'm not so sure.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4042	The President will warn against the debate developing into an EEA debate, for then the President believes that night can be long.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4047	I experience this debate as a kind of rhetorical quest where the Progress Party is constantly being revealed, and then try again to come up with new rhetorical inputs that might make you hope to escape this time or this time or this time. The last one we got from the state council, which claimed that there were a lot of parties that wanted the Progress Party to get more through. But when it comes to these highway plans we're talking about here: is it the Right that's interested in them? Wasn't the Progress Party interested in them? If you are against tolls in these projects, you have one thing you can do: one can vote against, one can easily vote against. It's to be against the tolls in these projects. Why is this not the case? If one, as SV, thinks that road development of many fields' motorways around the country is not the way to go in the time we live in now, one can also vote against. Here you could have found an alliance with SV. But this is not the case. At no time would it be appropriate to reduce the level of ambition for the development of motorways – at any cost to the car list, no matter how much toll it leads to. Who cares? It's the way that's most important, and then this becomes of course a skinbat, when what happens at the end, is that a bump through these projects. Tolls are set up at a record level, and bills are left to the car list. One is happy to cut strings, but one is not happy to take the bill and take the responsibility. There should be a hump on someone else.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4056	The representative of Ingarill Olsen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4061	The debate of the evening is a sign that the Stortinget has had enough of the double communication of the Progress Party. If the Progress Party continues to do so, it will be pointed out again and again. I think the party is stripped of people most, of those they claim to represent. I hope we never get a show like the one we had today, and as we had when we had given up the case and the Progress Party managed to force it through that the case would be postponed. I hope we don't get a show like this again from the Progress Party, and that the Stortinget doesn't act like a nod doll for the Double Games of the Advance Party. It's clear that the party's rhetoric is exposed and undressed, and it's not beautiful, what we see.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4066	The representative of Morten Stordalen has spoken twice earlier and gets the word for a brief remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4071	The residents and drivers of Langangen–Dørdal in Telemark would like to receive much, much more dignity from this hall – road safety, safe and efficient roads around the region. This debate was exactly as I suggested when we put matters at risk, that it was going to be about something quite different from the projects it is about. There are several people who have been asked to be fact-based. The representative Battle Violence Vedum was occupied by percentages in relation to the increase in tolls. In typical Vedum style, Battle Violence Vedum's Center Party, he forgot to mention that the budget for transport has increased by 75 pst. in six years. It's far, far higher than the toll percentage. Neighbors' seats, as former Minister of Transport, also talked about the facts, but forgot that she presented a national transport plan. She stood here on the pulpit and said that the toll broke six billion dollars. kr. She presented a national transport plan of 10,5 billion. kr annually in tolls. This government has 10.9 billion. kr, but has increased the budget by 75 pst. That means the Center Party should check the facts first.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4080	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4085	The representative Breivik from the Left asked if the Central Party's posts meant that there was an attack on the Toll Institute. Yeah, I'd love to. It is important to give a thorough prioritisation and debate on funding for new roads linking Norway. The representative of the Rivers commented on what I said about poor land building roads with bombs. My point was that this started in the United States. The United States does not have a Community economy; they do not have a level of taxation with which to finance the roads without a bomb. The local government and the county council have no choice today. They have to vote for a bomb, otherwise they won't get anywhere. We're not going to have it like that in the future. It's the tax that has to finance common roads. The case concerns the spirit of the Advance Party. The promotion party could prioritise more stringently. There had been less tolls, but fewer four-field motorways with 110 km/h. The Party of Progress does not wish to prioritise more stringently. They want to be in government. That's why we're there today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4092	There are an incredible number of good hobby psychologists here in the room who explain in the knowledge and the broad, with great pathos, the state of mind of us FrP-re at present – representatives Navarsete, Knag Fylkesnes, Battle violence Vedum and more. The representative Knag County's denominator even says it's a rhetorical hunt, that the position is running a rhetorical hunt. Then I don't think the opposition has heard the posts. I don't think the representative Knag Fylkesnes has heard his own posts when he's talking about rhetorical hunting. Let me calm down the hall: we're doing pretty well with the FrPs. One of the reasons we're doing well is that this year we're going to open over 100 kilometers by motorway. When the red-greens crashed, when the Senterpartet controlled the Ministry of Transport, the last four years of their period opened 13.5 km on average every year – 13.5 km on average now this year over 100 km of motorway. The increase in the transport budget over the last six years has been 75 pst. We have presented a national transport plan of over 1000 billion. NOK, and we have reduced the car charges by 2 billion. kr. We have created New Veier AS, which the opposition opposed – the company that builds cheaper, better and with less tolls. The representative, Kirsti Leirtrø, said earlier in the debate that New Veier was agreed to be good. It is then new from the Workers' Party, because the Workers' Party voted against the creation of Nye Veier. They even went to the elections in 2017 to shut down the company. One of the first workers' party to do was to lay down New Roads. This is the Labour Party's policy. They have previously warned against roadbonanza in this hall, and much of the story is equal to the Center Party. They are also against Nye Veier. The representative Pollestad called it an air lock. They also went to the elections in 2017 to shut down New Roads – the company that builds cheaper, better road with less tolls. We have systematically worked to reduce tolls in recent years, with an interest-rate compensation scheme that the opposition opposed. A toll reform with fewer toll companies that would bring less red tape and lower interest rates was against the Senter party. The compensation scheme for minor tolls was opposed. I mean today is a happy day. In contrast to the urban growth agreements for which the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV are involved in the municipalities, where the tolls do not even go, at least the tolls on the projects we are dealing with today are on the way. It binds the country together, and it binds the regions it relates to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4108	The representative of Haarek Rivers has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4113	It's a bit of a shame that the representative Lundtigen has used up his speaking time, because now there really would have been a need for a post, in the spirit of public information, from the representative. Is it possible for the representative to reply to me in terms of where to find traces in the budget of the Central Party according to how to finance the road projects that Stortinget now chooses to co-finance through toll charges? After all, the centre party has not voted against the toll proposals. How are they going to finance this? Is it traceable?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4118	The representative, Kirsti Leirtrø, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4123	When the representative, Bjørnstad, claims that we went to the elections to lay down New Roads, that is not correct. We went to the elections to evaluate New Roads, and it's going to be something completely different. It should be good that someone comes to the realization that something that others have done is actually good. We haven't heard much of that in the hall with regard to the road construction that has been before. So it is also that it is quite early to say that New Roads became very good. In the project we're really debating here, we can risk getting one into the state plan, precisely because of the organization of New Roads versus the state road system. There is now a pool of skills, and we can be concerned about the road sector as a whole. I hope we can get back to that matter later.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4130	It's a good day today, and what's good about it is that it's been revealed to the world that the Progress Party has been having serious double communication for all the six years they've been in government. Now, finally, people have seen through the double communication of the Progress Party. The debate today is not about the Central Party, the Workers' Party, the SV or the opposition. It's about the showy double communication of the Progress Party: doing something completely different than what you say you do. The toll uprising is a fact, and the Progress Party panicked. There have been crisis meetings and insurrections in the party, management has to clean up and renegotiate. The election for the autumn will be a crisis, the Prime Minister will interfere with the major work, parts of the presidency will give way to the pressure, and the Progress Party will not vote for the toll projects, with pictures in the VG and on TV, while the county leaders will extend the leadership of the Progress Party. Storing representatives were to stretch out their hands and vote in the staging room for more tolls, while the county leaders stretched out the party leadership, so that there is still some hope of drawing some votes to the Progress Party during the fall elections. Now, according to the media, the Progress Party can well wait until August with the results of these negotiations. They have probably realized that the requirements have fallen on rock. None of the other government parties, nor the prime minister, seem to give one millimeter. The negotiation is negotiated, the camel eaten camels, all the demands are going to fall to the ground, and the powerlessness of the Advancement Party is revealed. The voters have understood the double communication and will refer to the choice of the harvest. But the representatives of the Progress Party still have the opportunity to show that they are the friends of the drivers and want them well. They can still vote in favour of our very specific proposals to reduce the toll burden on the drivers.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4141	When one hears some representatives' description of the inner life of the Progress Party, it's almost as if we could have wanted to invite them out with us sometimes. We have it at times quite comfortable. We have six years in government and delivered good results in areas by area. A lot of us are enormously proud of it. Unfortunately, for the Central Party, this debate is not about the spirit life of the Progress Party, it is about the financing of the E18 Langangen-Dørdal. Maybe it's time we reminded the Center Party of just that. Seventh and last, when we go from each other today after all the game, the government has ensured the acceleration of a road project that leads to safer roads, faster passageways and greater mobility in a region that needs a larger bus and labour market, and we have helped to make it faster and cheaper than before. Seventh and last, I believe that the policy is measured by results, not by political vocabulary, corks in the Storting or in public vocabulary, but by what one gets, and we get quite a lot by having an active hand on the steering wheel. When all of a sudden has been for New Roads, I thought it was fine. We take the rose, he's nice to us. This was not the case when we established the company, a company that has made transport policy more successful, just as we look at other areas when we are now making reforms, which we have had a lot of fun, but which show good results. This is what this is really all about: more safe and safe roads for people who travel, shorter travel time for Norwegian business, better arrival in everyday life for people who commute. That's to the seventh and last thing I think the voters are measuring us. That the Center Party and, in part, the Labour Party are also trying to make this a debate on something else, we tolerate well. When we leave here today, we know that tomorrow the job starts again with financing new, important motorway projects while reducing tolls for people the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4152	The representative Sigbjørn Gülsvik has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4157	The development of E18 Langangen-Dørdal is an important project supported by the Centre Party. It is good that we get the decisions we get today. But when we've focused a lot on the Progress Party in today's debate, it's because the Center Party had some hope that the Progress Party might be some of those who would be closest to supporting our proposal that all cost reductions in the project should be used and benefit the drivers through reduced tolls. But I'm recording that that attempt was stillborn, unfortunately. We've met the wall. Our proposal, which could have been given a majority if the Progress Party had voted in favour, unfortunately does not get a majority in this Chamber today, like other proposals to reduce the toll payment. Unfortunately, this has been the case since then with the Progress Party in the government: there will be tolls and record high charges, while at the same time there will be tax cuts for those who have the most of them. This is a bad priority for most people in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4164	The representative Nils Aage Igstad has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4169	I do not understand that the Central Party expects the Advance Party to vote for a practice which they themselves did not follow when they were in government. I was actually with the former State Councillor Liv Signe Navarsete and tried to accept that they would take the exceedance that came on the Ulven-Sinsen road project, which was past 1 billion. NOK, and grant it as a grant to the Municipality of Oslo. But we got a blank no. It was to be taken with tolls. It's a practice that's been used raw by the red-green government. Let's do the proportional part. This means that the money we have within the framework can be spent on several projects and benefit more drivers.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4174	The representative, Mr Knag Fylkesnes, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4180	We can sum up the debate that the Progress Party generates a lot of tolls, and that they are pursuing an irresponsible transport policy, which increases global warming, with disastrous consequences in the long term for the Norwegian economy, as it is already exhausting. If there is one thing we can be sure about when we leave here today and know that there will be a new day tomorrow, there will be new motorway plans in the future, which will require new toll charges from the Billistan.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4185	The representative Siv Mossleth has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4190	At the very end of this debate it is quite incredible to hear that the Progress Party owes it to the Center Party and the time we were in government, six years ago. Will the end of this debate be such that it is the centre party that will take responsibility for everything the Progress Party does not get into this government?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4195	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4211	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines be given with replies from the member of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4220	This case concerns the financing of the project E6 Ulsberg–Melhus in the municipalities of Rennebu, Midre Gauldal and Melhus in Trøndelag, i.e. E6 south of Trondheim. This has been an extension project in Trøndelag and not least for all freight transport operators travelling on this route. It will now be 4 km shorter road and not least approx. 20 minutes shorter travel time from Ulsberg to Melhus, which is a distance between 60 and 70 km. When we also know that the E6 route from Melhus into Trondheim got a new road in February this year under the auspices of the Environmental Package, the traffic situation for the Southern Trøndelag will be experienced as a whole new world in a short time. I have to commend New Roads and the efforts of the relevant municipalities to start this project much earlier than initially provided. This road project was a low priority within the New Vee portfolio, but through good and constructive dialogue with stakeholders, new solutions for junctions and tunnels became. Development costs have decreased, toll tariffs have been reduced in relation to the original level and two side roadblocks have been removed. Road users receive both a new road with increased road safety and a faster journey time, a previous start of construction and a lower share of toll collection than previously foreseen in this plan. I hope, as the rapporteur-in-Office, that this debate will focus on this road section, because it deserves it. It's been in second division, it's been a long way down, but now it's in elite division, and in trøndelag, you can really see that this is going to be a good project. The section shall be financed by 38 pst. toll collection and the remainder financed by the New Weeger portfolio. New ways have really contributed to a constructive debate. Not only has it been positive in terms of communication with the municipalities, but all the plans have been adopted through the municipal level, no government plan has been used. So we have come up with very good measures that everyone agrees with – and the rapporteurs in these three municipalities are from the Labour Party and the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4233	E6 between Ulsberg and Melhus has been the highest priority project in Road Transport for many years – not only to build Trøndelag together, but also to build Trøndelag together with the rest of the country. Also, I want to commend New Roads for having realized the project and for making it possible, but also the municipalities and county councils to really have worked to increase the benefits of society and the economy of the project. For example, Melhus has reduced the number of departures. It's good for the economy of the project, but there's no doubt that the road will be less accessible to the population. The project covers the construction of 64 km mainly four-field road, with a speed limit of 110 km/h. In addition, the Swedish Road Administration is responsible for the development of the E6 Windmills for Corporalsbrua in the middle of the Nye Veier project. Here the Workers' Party points out that in the project that the State Road Administration is now running, there should have been two tunnels built and not one. There is no whole without two tunnels, and there is a significant road safety challenge when you go from a four-field motorway into a tunnel, and then to four-field when you get through the tunnel. Then we again show that toll financing becomes expensive. There's going to be a huge cost for the people from Berkåk and to Steinkjer when we have a new E6 built all the way. And here the drivers are going to pay almost 50 pst. of the development costs. That's two-thirds. Tolls will cover the financing costs and the collection costs. That's actually 25 pst. of the tolls that go to it. In their comments, the government parties wrote that they have brought down the toll percentage. In all projects in the national transport plan, a little at the base of 50 pst has been added. We also believe that the county council should not have to guarantee all the way, which is the responsibility of the state. We therefore have proposals Nos. 1 and 2, which I am referring to here, and we support the proposal of the Central Party No. Four in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4246	Then the representative Kirsti Leirtrø has taken up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4251	This proposition also deals with toll financing. This time we're in Trøndelag, the road between Ulsberg and Melhus. One might expect less debate, but this expansion will also take place under the direction of New Roads. It will provide a long-term improvement of the road network and will build the drainage layer region together in a completely different way from today. Today's road has varying standards, and it is partly very accident-prone. The new road gets mainly four-field road with a speed limit of 110 km/h on most of the route. Travel time is reduced by approx. Twenty minutes. I guess this way is going to cost 15 billion. kr. I guess the toll contribution is $5.5. kr. But what might be a little interesting in this case is that since the local decisions were taken, New Roads have significantly reduced the expected development costs. This means, as the rapporteur pointed out, that this proposition actually reduces the bomb charges compared to what was the basis of the local decisions. There are also two side-by-side beams that are being removed. This means that road users will benefit from the cost savings that New Roader achieves on this route and other developments around the country. There might be something to think about when you remember that the red-greens were opposed to the creation of New Roads. New Roads deliver, and they deliver well. We want this project to be successful from the Right, and we look forward to the project being completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4260	If the Progress Party had not taken government responsibility in 2013, we would today have discussed worse, more expensive and less coherent ways than we actually do. Most likely we had not discussed it at all today, but in a few years – perhaps. County rapporteur Tore O. Sandvik from the Labour Party feared completion in 2032 with the red-green plans for the road when he met the Ministry of Transport a few years ago. Fortunately, the road will be completed long before that. I am in principle opposed to road toll financing. It's because it's an expensive and bad way to finance infrastructure for a capital-rich country. Ideally, I would see that we could spend more of our financial assets on investments in the road and the track. But that's what I and the Progress Party are all about. Until more people agree with us in action and not just in words, we get to enjoy the victories we get, and this is one of them: better way at a lower cost. The positive thing is that in this project, at least the tolls go to work. The cars actually get something back for what they pay, and the side roads get bomb-free. E6 south or E6 between Ulsberg and Melhus connects Tøndelag, and it links Tøndelag with the rest of Norway. Inhabitants and businesses have been asking for a new E6 for decades. Now it's finally to be built. Finally, the 40, 50 and 60 zones between foothills, carrots and cyclists of Kvål, Ler and Lundamo are to be avoided. In the past, the State Road Administration has estimated that E6 south of Trondheim would cost 16.9 billion. kr for mainly two- and three-field road with a speed limit of 90 km/h. After New Weger took over the project, it is estimated that costs have fallen to 15 billion. kr for four-field road and approximately 110 km/h speed limit. For the entire New Veier portfolio in Trøndelag, costs have gone from 29 billion. NOK 24 billion. kr. There are considerable savings – savings that, after all the sunmarks, would not have come about the Workers' Party and the Centre Party had managed to stop the creation of New Roads a few years ago. There was no way it was going to go wrong. Politicians would lose control, it would become a state in the state, and it would lead to massive red tape of road construction. The result of Nye Veier can be seen from among others. when we are dealing with this matter today: more and better way to a cheaper money and less use of tolls on this road as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4275	It's important, as has been said earlier here, that we describe this project as it is. This is a good and long-term project. This is definitely a path that needs to get a standard highlight. Nor is there any doubt that what is described in the proposition itself will lead to a good offer for those who use this way. This proposition describes a proposal, a financing and an extension of E6 on the Ulsberg-Melhus-centre route, and it includes, as has been said before, mainly a four-field road with a speed limit of 110 km/h on most of the route. There's two parcels here. It is E6 Ulsberg–Melhus, and it is Ulsberg–Vindåsliene and E6 Corporalsbrua–Melhus centre. The distance is 28 km and is a continuous distance except for the route Vindåsliene-Korporalsbrua, which is built out of the State Road Service. It is an annual traffic of approx. 11,000 at Melhus and approx. 5000 at Ulsberg. This development will contribute to a safe and efficient transport year between Oslo and Trondheim. The development will also contribute to the development of the common housing and labour market in the Trondheim region and to the removal of a bottlenecks for traffic coming both from E6 and from Rv. 3rd@item: inlistbox That bottleneck there are many who have felt, and it is a good and long-lasting project, which hopefully will make this traffic much more flexible. Traffic safety and accessibility in this area are significantly increased with this project and local policy support is available. It is the municipalities themselves that have been involved and adopted the plans, and the municipalities of Trendelag have decided to provide a guarantee for the toll company's borrowings. We would also like to refer to the cooperation 'Building road', which is made up of the rapporteurs in Melhus, Middle Gauldal and Rennebu, who support a Mid Gauldal initiative on two tunnels in the E6 tunnel in Soknedal and request that this be followed up. This project is not part of the Nye Veier portfolio, but is being developed by the Statens vägvesen in the middle of Nye Veier’s project. The construction of two tunnels would be logical given the construction of four-field roads both north and south of the Soknedals project in the coming years. However, I would say that I am somewhat surprised at what is in the proposition here about unfair distribution of user payments and that you will look at today's toll system, but I have mentioned that earlier. The same applies to concerns about costs. The centre party is thus promoting a proposal to be able to reduce these, for the well-being and well-being of the drivers.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4298	The representative Bengt Fasterale has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4303	I get to apologize for raising the debate a little bit again. SV is a one-man fraction in the Transport Committee, and that means I have a little less speaking time than all the representatives of the Centre Party, the Advance Party, etc. There has been a rather strange debate here today. It will last a little while and is probably quite confusing and little interested in politics, I think, if there are any who are still following the streaming on the biggest.no. In any case, my conclusion is that all the parties here – except SV and the Environmental Party of the Greens, Red has not notified anything, as far as I have seen – are in favour of the propositions. So the two parties I mentioned, the Green and SV Environment Party, are in line with the three propositions. Then Bompenge-Norge looks like this in party politics: The advance party – like toll haters – has voted for all tolls in the cities and for motorway tolls. They refer to the bad parties in the government, and if they had a majority, they would have used oil money to finance this, they say. That's how much I've figured out. The Right, Left, Christian People's Party, the Workers' Party and the Center Party have voted for all tolls on the Stortinget, both in cities and on motorways. Several of these are trying to find lifebuoys to slim down, because a parrot has appeared on their shoulders for the last time, and it says, "Remove the tolls, remove the tolls!" That's the toll section. And these batches are following these incredible lifebuoys, either in terms of distributing any savings to the drivers – or road pricing, for which there is no technology yet. But the representative Sverre Myrli should have credit to say that they are too much money until road pricing becomes available. The Right Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have tried to stand in the storm – they should have credit and praise for – in the case of environmental bombs in the cities. But we see that also scratches it. Right in the Drammen knew the breath of this parrot in the neck, they too, and made sure that the whole Busherby pack 2 was scrambled. So seriously this development has become, and I am seriously concerned, not least about the urban growth agreements and the urban environment packages. It is therefore the SV and the Environmental Party of the Greens that – as far as we have seen – are the only people who are voting against the motorways and the tolls that we heard today. But we're cheering on the environmental bombs in the cities and we're going to keep voting for them.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4327	Would the representative like to make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4332	Yes, I will.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4337	The representative Arne Nävra has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4342	This is another proposal in which we actually build new, modern roads faster, better and cheaper than we would have done before. The reform of the transport sector is working. It benefits the state; it benefits the motorists. An example of that in this project is that two of the five previously planned bombs on the side roads disappeared from the project, and I have warned that I will also discuss with New Roads whether it is possible to get further bomb removal on the side road. This shows, in sum, that we are in the process of expanding the largest trade in this country. In contrast to SV, we are glad that we are building a forward-looking road with the capacity one will need to address the challenges associated with larger construction and labour market regions. We're building for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4347	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4352	A little back to something that I've been into in some of my articles: it's this that goes on road pricing. The centre party believes that the use of a private car is imperative in large parts of the country, while in the largest cities there is a need to invest more in collectives, bicycles and corridors. We had a proposal for a representative proposal from the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party, as the Stortinget Committee discussed in February. It was: ‘The government is asking for advanced road pricing in areas where there are good alternatives to private cars.’ So it was voted down. But what's interesting is that what was adopted by the majority is as follows: ‘The government asks to include the investigation of new technologies that can replace today’s toll system as part of the review of today’s car charging system.’ What has happened since 19 February, and in what way has the Council of State intended to introduce the government's own road pricing?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4367	Point 1: I do not intend to introduce ‘the government’s own road pricing’. I am of the majority who are in Stortinget, asked to work out a mission, and it does of course the government when the Stortinget decides. What is still decisive for me is also to look at the details in the light of the experience we already want to have the cottage, when we get a response to another order that Stortinget asked the government to carry out, simply to sort out road pricing as a system for heavy-duty transport. I believe in principle that it is easier to defend a road pricing system for heavy-duty vehicles than it is for passenger transport, but we have to do that again. Once we have received that report, it is also natural that we look at whether it is directly useful for other cars, or whether it is not. I will do the distribution work, based on the decision of the Storting. There is not just a road pricing model, which says that one should see the context of the entire car tax policy, and that is what the government will use.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4374	The reason why I ask is that I'm little in doubt about what you really want, a little bit from what's been in the media in the last few days, and not least what's in at least two of the propositions, about a desire to initiate action. It is quite right, as the Council of State says, that the concept of road pricing is not really used, but the Workers' Party promoted in the same setting the following proposal: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate and plan the introduction of satellite road pricing in Norway to replace the current tolling system.’ So I can repeat what was really in the decision, and that is being followed up in the propositions now. It's: ‘The government asks to include the investigation of new technologies that can replace today’s toll system as part of the review of today’s car charging system.’ What's the difference? That's what I'm after, because I've heard the Council of State in some debates being very clear that he's very opposed to road pricing.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4391	The last one is definitely correct, so the representative is quite right. That's my personal position. So I think there's a difference between the two assignments. One thing is to introduce a system no one else has had, and to be overestimated that you yourself have found the elegant way of calling tolls something else, as the Labour Party has done, but the other proposal is about looking at different technological solutions in a whole section of the future car tax policy, a much wider distribution – and it's an outlay, not a proposal for introduction. It will also open up more assessments than the Workers' Party suggested in its proposal, so it's a more open proposal; it's a much more comprehensive proposal because one should look at it in a wholeness and not just find another name to call it the tolls.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4398	Then I'll keep going where Fasteraune escaped, because this is unclear to us too. I have taken part in a debate with the chairman of the finance committee, Henrik Asheim, and he was able to confirm that the proposal that was adopted and that the government parties voted in favour of in the Stortingen on the use of new technology is the same as expounding road pricing. Now the Minister of Transport says that it is not, as I interpret him from the answer to the question from Fasteraune. I would just like to make it clear that in the proposal for the Workers' Party, it was also a matter of ‘exploring road pricing’. We don’t have all the answers to this, far from it – we said ‘excessive road pricing’ as an alternative to tolls and user-related car charges, just like for example. Henrik Asheim from the Right has argued for. What is the difference between the two proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4403	That's what I did in my previous post. I believe that the proposal that the pluralist parties have tabled is broader than a purely road pricing assignment. It is linked to the overall car tax policy. We need a resilient car tax system after 2025, where the Labour Party clearly points to a model with a satellite road pricing – moving the toll station into the car to each one. It's not surprising to me that we disagree about it, but there are differences in the wording of the two decisions, and that it's asked from the Storting, and that the government, of course, based on the multiples, will make out.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4409	I understand that the Minister for Transport has actually not been involved in matters, because it was in the Christian People's Party's proposal that it was «satellite-based road pricing». The working party has not taken a decision on the technology to be used. We want to figure this out. But I want to turn to a new question. There are some different numbers here in the hall, in the public sector and in the Trondelag, I have recorded, on how much toll will be charged to the project E6 Ulsberg–Melhus, if it is 5.7 billion. kr or if it's $8 billion. kr. So as I read the proposition, it's 8 billion. kr, which shall be required in total for tolls. 5.7 of the 8 billion. kr goes to road construction, and 2.3 brd. kr goes to the financing and investment costs. If the Minister for Transport confirms that a total of 8 billion will be taken. kr in tolls on E6 Ulsberg–Melhus?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4416	No, I can't, and it's simply about what the final project costs of this project will be when it's completed, I don't know until we've seen the accounting for the project. It's the one. The second is that what the Stortinget adopted today is the framework for funding. That means that if you bring down the cost, the tolls can go down. If the funding costs are lower than those of the financial engineering mechanisms, such as: estimates an interest rate of 6,5 pst., the costs may decrease. If we are able to continue to reduce the collection costs as we have done – as the representative Igstad has been in a more timely debate today – through the toll reform, costs may decrease. So the final answer to that is when we know the costs of the projects, and we're going to keep working to ensure that the toll load is as low as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4421	Everyone understands that you have to wait until the road is built and you see the final account before you can see what the total amount is, but we refer to what is in the bill and what the Council of State has presented to the Stortinget. The Council of States may confirm the estimates contained that the total amount of the estimates is 8 billion. kr in tolls and not 5,7 br. kr, which has also been a referenced number?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4426	I assume that the Storting has read the numbers that come forward when they set the upper limits for funding, and then we get back to the ultimate cost of this when the project is settled. Then we also get the total cost that is added to the car list as a consequence of that. I am absolutely certain that we will continue to work to improve the efficiency of the toll collection, in order to help reduce the number of toll companies, as we have done, that they are stronger when negotiating financial costs, etc., which also means that we are able to bring down the tolls in these projects. Then I hope that this project, which many other projects are driven by New Roads, which the Workers' Party opposed to the creation of, would also suggest that we reduce the costs further, in a way that would also benefit the drivers.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4431	I have a question that I and I think many city planners are interested in getting an answer to. We cannot build ourselves out of queue problems towards the cities by expanding even more fields. All the research shows that there are only even more cars on the roads, and the queues are going to be exactly the same as before, just that the city centres have even bigger problems to deal with. I could mention that several of these roadblocks -- one can't call it bumping right, those motorways here -- will lead to more traffic towards the city, like for example. E6 towards Trondheim. In fact, the same will also mean free E39, and the government also agrees when it is written: ‘The increasing traffic of E39 towards cities creates a target conflict that must be resolved in cities by means of urban environmental agreements.’ Is anyone meeting sail in the door here? Is it so that the Council of State has left the zero growth target? Because this can't be in the pact with the zero growth target?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4441	I want to remind the representative that we are now discussing Prop. 82 S, financing a four-field project, not urban growth agreements. I shall still answer that question. I am not meeting myself at all in the door if it was what the representative tried to suggest. For example, when it applies to the zero growth measure, we measure. not transit traffic in large urban areas. It comes from the fact that one, in wisdom, has, in the past, put all the important roads into the central area in order for traffic to function optimally, with the result that transit traffic through urban areas and beyond also often has to be within a city municipality. That's why we're building up our capacity, because the commuting is going to work in and out where it's necessary, and because we're going to make it easier for Norwegian business and strengthen the competitiveness of an export right business. In this government, we are concerned that we must also contribute to creating money before we can distribute it. That's what this is about when we're now strengthening competitiveness through road development.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4446	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4453	The debate on tolls will be a little difficult to draw up, but when the fiscal spokesman for the Progress Party, Sivert Bjørnstad, for the second time from the pulpit, talks falsely about the Workers' Party, there is reason to take the floor. The description of the reality that Bjørnstad's representative came up with is wrong. The working party had this road project in its NTP. The county rapporteur in Trøndelag said 2023 and not 2032. So if the Workers' Party had been in government for the last six years, the construction of this road would have been under way. In terms of costs and toll ratio, we'll never know, because we haven't run the country in that period. To Dale, State Council: With regard to all the toll proposals we are dealing with today, it has been said in the media that the toll cost is 15 billion. If you add up all of the propositions, 22 billion. I'll give you the right number. 6.3 B.C.E. kr of which shall relate to collection costs and financing costs. There, the State shall not contribute at all. Finance Minister Siv Jensen has said – and this has been the argument – that the toll percentage under the previous government was 40 p.m., while it is now 28 p.m. If you go through what's in the national transport plan, the toll rate is 43 pst. If you just take the toll propositions, which are going to be dealt with here in the Storting, it's 49.5 pst. of the roads paid by the drivers. It's very hard to get the facts out here, at least when people talk untrue from the pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4462	I hear that the Center Party and the Workers' Party propose that we extend this project – even more tolls – because they want a double tunnel in Soknedal. One tunnel is now being built, and it is also funded by bombs. If you want to double it, you have to assume that the costs are also partly financed by tolls. I wonder if they're aware of what they're actually supporting. I and the government see much better that New Veier gets a profit on the rest of the project and maybe can join in and fund it when you see the end result of the other sections. It could be an opportunity, as you have a portfolio that is distributed from anomalies. A little bit about side-by-side beams: the original proposal was to have side-by-side beams on the entire route. In the proposal, two of them are now removed. There are still two proposed, but they may also be removed by dialogue. It's in the proposition that you have to have a dialogue about this. It's not for the moment. The working party says that the financing costs are not included in the original proposal. But you don't know what the cost of financing is when it's about the level of interest. At least I don't know what the interest rate will be in the next few years. I have such a good faith in New Roads in the project execution, that I think they can do it in a shorter time, and can start demanding tolls earlier. Then we operate with completely different sums, but you don't know that until after you're done. Finally, SV's concern for Trondheim's well and well and car traffic: Trondheim, Malvik, Melhus and Stjørdal are now signing an urban conference with the state and county council. There is a commitment to zero growth targets for car traffic. There are also other measures. I think we should leave it to the city and the politicians who are there instead of believing so much about development.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4473	We will soon decide to build almost 70 km with four-field motorway, four-field E6 with 110 km/h and possibly 120 km/h. It's absolutely amazing, and it would be quite unimaginable to have such a case, with a four-field road and with such a big project and such a great stretch, if we hadn't had the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party in government. We remove 50 km/h, 60 km/h, 70 km/h and 80 km/h, and drive and take-off – kangaroo driving, up and down at speed all the time – and replace it with a continuous 110 km/h traffic limit and a safe and safe four-field motorway, where you are busy both in traffic, taking down travel time and getting a safe road. It's important, not just for Trøndelag, but for anyone who travels from north to south on E6. It is important for everyone who comes from the West and everyone who travels in Norway. So thanks to the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, we get a forward-looking four-field road. It is also important to remember that the alternative to a normal four-field road would be the strange and strange phenomenon of a two- and three-field road with a bomb. With as much noise and protest as there has been a bomb on a four-field highway – how would the understanding of having a bomb on a two- and three-field road, where you still have to have kangaroo driving and have to drive in line, be? The understanding for that would, of course, have been significantly lower. There is in any case an amazing debate we have here today, because finally there has been great resistance to tolls. There's something we in the Progress Party have been waiting for a very long time, and finally we see the possibility that there might be a majority on the Stortinget to spend more of the state's oil money to remove the toll. It would have been great if it could have been the result of the long debate here today. It is also a small cross of thought that these three issues, which are basically positive – we are building more roads than ever before in Norway, at a lower cost than what has been possible before – which is really a win-win case, where more money is being given away, has led to a big bomb debate. It's the urban environment packages that most people out there protest at, where you just pay, pay and pay in eternal urban environment packages, without the drivers getting anything left. It's a small cross of thought that these are the things that are important for building the country, and where the drivers get all the benefits, that create the massive bomb resistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4486	I was in doubt if I should take the floor, but the representative Johnsen also came to the pulpit. I have to say, the Johnsen of the Progress Party, he's talking about being forward-looking with road construction. At least what I'm recording is that the Progress Party, by Johnsen, doesn't look up and think forward. He doesn't. We are talking about him having to check out Google, check out some look-up work, then check out the «climate crisis» and the «Climate Panel», and then he has to check the recommendations for what should be done. Then it's not so easy to come up with the simplest solutions to run at 110 km/h, preferably 120, they've been dealing with maybe 130, with higher energy consumption and all that it entails by reducing the area and greenhouse gas emissions. So these thoughts are completely gone in the head of the Progress Party, completely. It is forward-looking policy in the head of the Progress Party. I'm getting scared. I actually had a message, a prayer to those who are concerned about the district roads. I had a prayer especially to the Center Party and perhaps the district section of the Workers' Party. The government parties have given up a little, but it is a matter of prioritizing funds on the roads in Norway. I have registered, the committee has registered – we have been around all over the country and heard – rapporteurs complain about their need over the county roads. We have heard one after another complain about their need, both county rapporteurs and rapporteurs, about racial protection, lack of road maintenance, etc. It's a huge retreat, narrow roads, a lack of middle stripe, all of this right here. It's huge sums to go to. I'm questioning whether it's wise and whether it's right that the representatives of the Central Party and the district representatives who are really busy in the districts and getting a lot of money go ahead, prioritize the way they do with the major motorway projects, especially towards the cities. I say this as a friend and colleague of many of these sitting in the Center Party and in the Workers' Party. I wish we had some such stubble conversations about that, like in the shed. I can say that to Fasterune. Because we're talking about 40 billion. kr for the E18 West Corridor. 190 B.C.E. kr is a string only on the fjord crossings of the West. I sincerely hope that the Central Party in particular is moving on these questions, because I believe that the Central Party's ideology is not entirely in line with their attitude towards motorways in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4498	We've talked about stubble talks before here in the staging room, and it's possible to be on antsafari for that matter too – if you're going to run with that kind of thing. What I was talking about in the first place was once again clarifying that this is about the state as a guarantor, that is, for the loans that county councils now have to raise in order to finance the tolls, is a huge challenge. There has also been a dialogue with the government parties about this in the past, and I sincerely hope that you can go in and look at this. With the heavy and big projects that we are now talking about, this is a concern that I hope more than just we in the opposition are taking over. At the same time, this project is a project that is absolutely necessary to build up according to the standard that we see and that comes into the proposition as part of it. We are promoting the same proposal as we did when we discussed the previous proposal – that a surplus of the project should benefit the drivers, that they should be left to make the project go better than what was planned and budgeted. When it comes to roads – a little back to the representative Johnsen – it's like this, no matter how you turn it around, building roads from where you live, and where you are in the country. In some places you have to build the four-field highway. So probably the Center Party and SV have a slightly different view of four-field highways towards the cities, but we have a lot of the same vision as SV also when it comes to building roads in the districts. It has to be dimensioned according to the traffic that is there, not least what is really needed. If you're going to build four-field highways everywhere, which it sometimes sounds like when the Progress Party describes that problem, I think there's going to be some costs that are probably never really going to be realized in any NTP in the future. I don't think that's what people are really talking about either. At the same time, we are concerned about the need to look at the relationship between public transport and rail when constructing motorways. This is a challenge, for example: towards Oslo – with E18 – that we have a city council that ensures that there are minimum parking spaces in the city, and a government today that provides a flow of as many cars as possible into the city. Many of the issues we are also willing to discuss.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4509	The regulatory time for the Storting meeting has now come to an end, and the President will propose that the meeting continue until the matters on today's map have been resolved. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4514	I asked the Minister for Transport about what it is intended to be included in tolls on the E6 Ulsberg-Melhus. It did not respond to the Minister of Transport, and it is quite alarming. I understand that one can't now determine how much is to be charged, but that's a financing arrangement that underlies, and that's what we've been presented in the proposition. I've read the proposition carefully, several times, and on page 12, it's a financing plan. It says New Veier will contribute 9.3 billion. kr, and that tolls shall contribute SEK 5,7 billion. kr, cf. table on page 12. If you look up to page 14 of the proposal, it says that gross toll revenue is calculated at about 8 billion. kr, and that 5,7 br. kr is provided to cover part of the investment costs. And then it says, I quote from the proposition: "Rest income after the contribution to investment costs goes to the collection of financing costs and collection costs." This cannot be understood in any other way than that it is not 5.7 billion. tolls shall be charged, which have been communicated to the public. That's 8 billion. tolls have been calculated. That the Minister of Transport cannot confirm it, I think it is quite alarming.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4521	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4538	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4547	I would like to begin by thanking the Committee for a good cooperation in this matter, including in the matter of rapid treatment. We got rid of it without any problems. It's one of the longest four-field projects in Norway history we're about to adopt this evening. It will be 43 km with a four-field motorway from Moelv, then over Mjøsbrua with a new Mjøsbru and uphill the Upplands side of Mjøsa, right up to Hafjell in Øyer, with a continuous 110 km/h, and maybe the possibility that it can be 120 km/h. The project will help to link Mjøsbyne and Inland together and reduce travel time by as much as 30 pst. It is important not only for the Inland but also for the whole of the North West, the whole of the Gudbrand valley, the Trøndelag and North Norway. In addition to significantly reduced travel time, there are significant savings on this project, in fact savings are expected to be as much as 5 billion. kr. Nor is there a bomb on the side roads – it is important for us in the Progress Party – so that it can, for example, be done. it is possible to drive old E6 without a bomb. SV has its own proposal on two/three-field road throughout the route, and the Centre Party has proposals for two/three-field road from Lillehammer and further northwards. As I said, this is essentially a positive and important case for Norway, but it is interesting to note that the Centre Party and SV have found each other in this case and instead want to prioritize the construction of two/three-fields rather than four-field roads. The fact that SV is in charge of that policy may not be very surprising, but that the Centre Party will not help to build the districts, and that the Centre Party will help to make it cork and cows and chaos around the Lillehammer area every weekend when all the cabins in the Gudbrand valley and beyond will be filled with tourists and travel life will have more tourists in their hotels. Then they'll be in line, in and out, from Lillehammer. It's very interesting and very special. What makes it twice special is that it's not going to go with so much cultivated land. I think it's a little special that the Center Party hasn't seen since the Center Party has a representative from that area. There is also no problem for business, rather the opposite, there will be problems if there is a lot of cork and queue and chaos. So that's the cost. It's a misunderstanding that it's so much more expensive to build a four-field road. In the two/three-field solutions we have built in Norway, it's about maybe 10 pst. differences in costs and there is not much money.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4560	E6 on the Moelv-Øyer route is 43 km of four-field road. This route is currently heavily damaged, and the project will help to build new Inland much better together. The toll percentage on the project is set to 48 pst. Here, too, the drivers, in addition to the construction of the road, are going to pay 2.3 billion. kr for collection and financial expenses. We still believe that we need a full review of all road investments. In particular, Hedmark and Uppland may feel a great injustice in terms of toll costs. For example, here we have the OPS project on rv. 3, where the toll percentage is almost 90 pst. Worse still, it's on the E6 at Otta, where they pay tolls without getting any way. In addition, when one experiences an increase in differences, it is not surprising that the inhabitants of the country react. We therefore point out, also in this case, that we need to work out a fairer road pricing, and we are asking, in a matter that we are going to deal with tomorrow, for a full review of all the roads in the national transport plan. Two years into the plan, the government is 16 billion. kr according to your own plan. The costs of many of the projects in the plan have doubled. How can we realise the content of the national transport plan? In addition, we believe that roadside solutions without a bomb on the side roads will pose a significant traffic risk. In contrast to the State Road Service, New Roads do not say anything about remedial measures for the community, such as: means of walking and cycling, site development and collective connecting points. We also believe in this case that the State itself must guarantee its own roads, and ask that the municipality of Uppland should also be assessed in terms of the total amount of the guarantee that they can bear. This is also based on the Government Declaration, where the Government opens up the possibility of introducing a State sub-guarantee. It's important to bring it with you. This means that proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party, promoted. We also support the loose proposals of the Centre Party in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4575	The representative Kirsti Leirtrø has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4580	This proposition, which covers the development of E6 on the Moelv-Øyer route, will give approximately. 43 km of four-field road with a planned speed limit of 110 km/h, to the delight of more than the case spokesman. E6 Moelv–Øyer is part of a major effort on the development of the main road from Oslo to the North West. The route is very accident-proof and will provide users with both a more traffic-proof and more efficient year of traffic between Oslo and Trondheim. The extension shall be carried out under the direction of New Vegar AS. The task of new Vegar AS is to build all-round and interconnected four-field highways. In addition to road safety, this expansion will strengthen business. Goods are emerging more rapidly, and it is very important in a region with 240 000 inhabitants, who live on exports and private business. The project could strengthen the Mjøs region as a common construction and labour market. There is local political support from the municipalities of Ringsaker, Gjøvik, Lillehammer and Øyer, and Oppland County Council has decided to provide a guarantee for its borrowing company. The expected cost of the project is 11.3 billion. EUR 5,8 billion in 2019, and the financing plan includes a government contribution of SEK 5,8 billion. DKK and tolls of 5.4 billion. kr, i.e. 48,5 pst., and toll collection for 15 years per bomb section. Four automatic tolling stations and both directions have been added. The local policy decisions have given the consent of zero-emission vehicles to pay tolls, and one thus follows Stortinget’s decision in connection with Prop. 87 S for 2017-2018. Tolls are not popular. We've seen that, but the way Right sees the mood, it's easier to accept co-financing as long as you see that a driver actually gets something back. It makes one of the degrees with this extension, and also with the previous two propositions we've been dealing with. It is with some wonder that we see that the Senterparti suggests that one consider scaling this project down to two/three-field roads from Lillehammer and northwards. This will mean a postponement of the project and new rounds of planning and distribution work, and we believe, based on the signals we have received locally, that it is not supported. The way Right perceives it, it's not a forward-looking solution either. Right-wing supports this proposition as it stands, and looks like we can run in 2023 on the first part of the new four-field road and with final finish by the end of 2025.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4593	This is a project that goes from Moelv to Øyer, and it's 43 km of four-field road with a planned speed limit of 110 km/h. In principle, we in the Center Party are also positive, and we are in favour of such a project, which will mean a great deal in the Inland. In Mjøsbyen and Mjøs, there are as many people as there are in Trondheim, and connecting this region in this way and connecting it to the city is very important. Of course, we are also concerned that there should be good road links through the Gudbrand valley, and, as most people are familiar with it, a new E6 is built with a combined four-field/three-field road that unfortunately is not yet finished. It's a stretch that goes from Sjoa to Otta over Ringebu, for which people pay tolls, and that's not completed. We have put forward our proposal, and there is nothing to say that we have an alternative, but we ask the government to assess whether there are any cost savings, and also the cropland. We're aware that a four-field road with a tunnel might lead to less cultivated land going away than what we're asking for, but the question remains that some time the level from a continuous four-field road has to go to something else. A few years ago, a good road was built through the Fron municipalities and partly in Otta. The question from our side is, where is this transition going to take place? There's someone who thinks it's natural that it's on the Eyes. Some may think it may be natural that it is at Lillehammer, and ask a people in Fron, it might be that they think it should be further north. That is why we have asked the government to assess that transition. That's what we in the Central Party have mentioned in our proposal in the setting. Otherwise, I would like to mention in particular what is going on under state guarantee liability, and I know about the discussion that was in Uppland County. They've guaranteed the previous E6 solution and what's built there. With the figures that have emerged recently, there is a genuine concern about having a significant debt when this amortisation period is over. They have asked in particular that a solution with a State guarantee such as the one I am now sketching will be reviewed. I'm taking up the proposal of the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4606	The representative Bengt Fasterale has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4611	I'm not going to use my measured speaking time. I would like to thank you for a very good contribution from the representative, Mr Fasteröne. I now see signs of audacity in the size of the roads on the centre side. Then I have a sigh. I record that we are now building motorways in valley guides and corridors where there is a rather fragile railway. Note this on the map - they go in the same corridors. Here we talk about the possibilities for – I just think that scenario – that we had had a modern two-track railway to Trondheim and a modern two-track high-speed railway to Kristiansand and on to Stavanger. What would then have been more natural than to consider the need and scale the road after we had built the railway? It can happen that even the representative Tor André Johnsen had thought that the two-/three-field road had been enough with a modern two-track high-speed rail between these cities. It's not impossible at all. I think the representative from the Left might also agree with that. I would like to address the proposal that SV is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4622	The representative Arne Nävra has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4627	First of all, I must refer to the committee's recommendation. There I think there's been a mistake, because it says that the Socialist Left Party should be on the recommendation that the majority stands for. I think they're going to be replaced with the left, because we're not mentioned at all. If the representative Arne Nävra accepts that we're switching places this time, it would be fine. So over to the project and my amazement that the Center Party takes the chance – to put it that way – on the proposal they have. I've been following Nye Veier's projects. That's what we had in Tøndelag. The reason was that the project we discussed in the previous case had planned a two- and three-field road. Then there was no social economy in it. It was not then possible to save so much time and reduce it, especially among road users in industry. I think it's pretty obvious that you'll get far down on the list. It will probably be built once, because they have a portfolio to implement, but it will not be among the priorities if the proposals of the Centre Party were to be considered. I think it's now about doing a little bit of a move around when it comes to competing for the projects. At least that's my advice to the Center Party. If they really think that this is an important project for them, which I think at least Bengt Fasteraune thinks, who lives in the district and travels there often, I think it is important to stick to. I think this is an important project to avoid getting bottlenecks in the middle of good roads. We now have great roads from Oslo and northwards. We also have that in the Gudbrand valley, and this is like a little bottleneck in the middle. I think it is very important to maintain the pace and to facilitate that road users have a good and economically viable path.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4639	Then we can say it so that the representative has cleared up an incursion in the committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4644	This is the third case today concerning the development of reasonable, sufficient capacity on our road network, built for the future. I agree with Mr Gunnes, who was surprised at the attitude of the Central Party in this matter. The project we are now considering is a project where one has managed to reduce costs by about 5 billion. kr to build a better standard – 5 brd. kr in savings. In addition to cutting 5 billion. kr in costs will increase the use of traffic and the benefits for those who are going to use the road by 800 million. kr. And when you get to it, after all the debates you've had in this big deal about fear of over-costing, getting more money back, and getting better results for those who travel in traffic – when you've got it, when you've got a huge project where you get good results, the Central Party says they would like to have something else. That's why it's been piece by piece and shared the development of the road network in this country before this government joined: it's because one has not managed to think whole-mindedly, because one has never finished planning, because every time one has come quite far in planning, one will have anything other than what one has spent years planning. Instead of rebuilding, you start over. The fact that the centre party was to fall into the trap – in the SV case, I believe that I can allow myself to say – on this issue is almost completely impossible for me to understand. Because I've believed that although there are many lines of conflict between today's government and the Central Party on many issues, the Center Party has been busy with efficient transport corridors for people in the districts. E6 through Gudbrandsdalen is not a local road in Gudbrandsdalen, for example. one of the most important transport years of an export-oriented business in More and Romesdal. That's where our goods go to the market. Then we need capacity to deal with it, and I mean this proposition makes good sense. Then it's amazing that when we finally build the right path faster, cheaper and better than before, find parts of the opposition that are going too fast, this is going too well, here we have to start cutting the project. It's a rather strange situation to witness to, but it might show why we should keep the government of the day.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4655	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4660	As I mentioned in my post, Hedmark and Uppland feel a great injustice with regard to their toll percentage. Unlike the Progress Party, the Working Party had the money to reduce the amount of toll on the OPS project by rv. 3rd@item: inlistbox I also mentioned Otta-Sjoa. Now Hedmark has asked for a new toll and toll stowage for the toll project at E6 Kolomoen-Moelv. There will be a large proportion for the Inland county municipality to pay in tolls. The question to the Council of State is: how does the Council of State view going through the total toll projects in the Inland region to make it fairer, e.g. in the case of an electric car?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4667	I am willing to assess adjustments to agreed toll proposals if there is local policy initiative where one covers the obligation but looks at other devices of it. In some of these toll propositions agreed by the Stortinget, there is also flexibility to find slightly different solutions if, for example: revenue is greater than expected, and it is faster than expected – or other alternatives to it. There is usually no resistance to today's government. What doesn't work is to have the projects developed first and then would leave the bill after Stortinget has said that one is going to pay her. It's a part of this. I am always willing to find the best possible, optimal solutions for those who travel in traffic, those who guarantee toll loans, and those who travel along the roads. But then we have to do it based on the framework of the Storting decision, as we do when we deal with the proposition today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4674	This is a little bit on the side of the project itself here, but it's also about tolls: on the left. 3 we have seen that the party's representative from Hedmark has said that the Progress Party will cover up so that it becomes the right share, as it is in the agreement. Today it's 90 pst. which is the proportion of tolls, while there was another promise in the contract before the construction of the road project. How is that going to be solved?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4679	I will answer a question that is not related to the matter we are dealing with – but I will do it anyway. I have also registered that the representative Johnsen has adhered to the committee position of the Financial Committee, where the majority of the parties say that they should contribute further by 200 million. kr to reduce tolls on rv. 3/rev. Twenty-five, and the Council of State standing here, put forward exactly the same comments that the representatives of the majority of the Finance Committee make. So the representative can assume that the government will follow this up in its own way in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4686	It's a question of 120 km/h speed limit. I'd like to say that there's nothing to say about it in the proposition, but the representative Johnsen was into it in his post, and there's also something about it in the media. Last week, the State Road Administration sent a study to the Ministry of Transport on the consequences of increasing motorway speed limits to 120 km/h. Building new roads at the speed limit of 120 km/h improves the accessibility of the driving lists, while at the same time increasing the development costs of new motorways, and it is estimated that the scope of new motorway development in Norway may be up to 460 km. Development costs increase by 10,5 million. kr per kilometre when the speed limit shall be 120 km/h instead of 110. It has well been found that each driver saves 1.4 seconds per kilometre on a future upgraded 120 km/h road network. Does the Council agree with Mr Johnsen's suggestion that new projects should be dimensioned for 120 km/h?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4693	It takes the government's position on a case-by-case basis when we put forward a proposition. But I totally agree with the representative Johnsen that on some of the roads we've already built, and on some of the projects we're starting now, the road standard is dimensioned so that it allows a speed of 120 km/h without significant new expansion costs. It also points to the report from the State Road Administration. Otherwise, you can notice that New Roads, which are the ones that own these projects, have slightly different ways of calculating this and coming out with slightly different numbers. So that's what the government has to decide when we have the full scope of it. I'm not surprised that the center part again is skeptical about speeding up the highways. It had to be a government from the city side to increase from 100 to 110 km/h as well. It was a terrible baluba then, too. It's been great. The effectiveness of the road network has increased. The average speed hasn't gone up as much as the speed limit, but it's still working well, and I'm sure we'll make sure it does the same thing in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4700	I'm not negative enough that you can go up to 120 km/h – it was just a question of whether there's something that's being assessed in the ministry. That's what I was asking. I have to say in terms of the answer you give: on those distances where it's already dimensioned for this and it's relatively curative, I'm going to follow your thinking in full. The same could also be true for projects where there are 90 km/h today, where you might get up to 100 km/h, for example. on the road section I have mentioned, in the Gudbrand valley, which is already built. I assume that's what was in the answer from the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4707	I just want to remind the representative that the speech should be corrected by the President, and that you can be replaced by the ‘Council of State’.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4713	The reply to the representative is yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4718	So the line change is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4725	The representative Johnsen pulls out some bait, which I bite at. I didn't intend to take the word, but I have to get hold of some of the rhetoric he's using. Now we're not going to vote for a two-/three-field road, but the representative Johnsen said that two-/three-field road is a strange phenomenon. He could not have been in Sweden, Austria, Germany, the Czech Republic or Spain. As soon as I get to these five. Even New Roads are inside the idea of a two-/three-way around. This is not a strange phenomenon. Then he had a little bit of a light round of percent, the representative Johnsen: when 10 pst. cheaper way is not much money and 20 pst. cheaper production in New Roads is the way to world salvation, I think it's a bit easy to deal with the ten percent that it might be cheaper, while New Roads build roads 20 pst. cheaper, so that's the way to the world's salvation. Then I wanted to remind myself of the three projects I mentioned in the first toll case we had today: Granes in Northern Ireland: tolls – no road Eight in the Gudbrand valley: tolls — without getting the road promised the OPS project on rv. 3, with a toll ratio of 90 pst. That's when this representative says we can't do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4746	I think it's in place that someone from the right side of Mjösa said hello to me and said that this is a pleasant project: we extend an E6 extension from the Colomo and past Lillehammer, and four fields are correct. Inland is Norway's crossroads, both north-south and east-west. We had to make a priority in the interior and chose the so-called lottorekka: 2–4–6–16. It's important that we take the roads in both parts of the new state, both in Hedmark and Uppland, and it's soon to be completed until Moelv. It is also interesting – because today we are really discussing quite a lot of New Roads – that without the majority of today, New Roads had never been born. It has proved to be a good success so far, and the success story is likely to grow. The municipalities along this route have realized that it is important to plan, and that is precisely why they have come up in the priority queue. It is not certain that neither New Roads nor this road section had existed without a representative from the Left from Uppland being elected. For the first time after World War II, it happened in 2013, and I had no problem saying yes to neither New Roads nor to this project. When you're from Biri, it's quite obvious. The remedial measures for which the Workers' Party is concerned are already in place, because one has seen that there is a development here. But there were a lot of people who were disappointed when we got a pass-by parcel between Biri and Lillehammer, that we got the middle parts all the way, and that we were driving for 60 and 70 km/h and in line on that route. Midwayers were needed, unfortunately, because there have been a lot of road accidents and fatal accidents on that route. It's also part of what we're discussing here today – that there's a huge cost to society when so many die on a stretch. Many families along these routes have had painful experiences. New roads are also interesting in the light of the discussion we have these days that SJ will be driving trains in Norway, because the Swedes get a lot more out of the crowns also on the way. We are not able to take in the lag, but we need to use these tools to get more out of the money, in terms of both rails and asphalt. There has also been a discussion about giving New Vejer responsibility south from Mjøsbrua, past Gjøvik. I fully support getting a comprehensive portfolio around Mjösa, but we would like to discuss whether it is fv. 33 along Skreifjella, or if it is rv. 4 which is the right distance. Then to the representative Johnsen: Yes, we support 120 km/h, but we can prioritize the electric cars first.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4765	I understand that there are people who are concerned because we have asked a question about a cost saving on the northern part of this, from Lillehammer up to Øyer. As I said instead, we're concerned that somewhere there has to be a transition. I went to open the offices for New Veger on Friday. He who built the previous parcel in the Gudbrandsdalen – Moshagen’s name is he – who is not yet finished, and who has now been given the responsibility to finish, said to me that it is important to find a transition somewhere. He naturally relates to what the Storting decides, but that is my question in this case. I hope that it is not the case that if you ask questions in the Storting about whether you should make any cost savings assessments in such projects, the answer from the Council of State and the Government is that there is a risk sport, and then there is someone else who gets the assignment. I hope that there are some more in-depth assessments in which projects you actually prioritize and forward to Stortinget. As the representative Kjeseth said, this is a matter that the whole of India has agreed on for many, many years. What we're talking about now is we're in the final phase of a project. I also fully agree with the representative, Mr Kjeseth, that when this is done, you have to look further south towards Gjøvik, so you get a whole. Either way, there's someplace you don't have a full four-field path, but maybe you need to find other solutions. I assume that this hall does not want to have a quadruple road between Oslo and Trondheim according to the same standard as we have described here. I think that's an error priority, and that's what's behind our question and our proposal on this assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4774	I want to take up the same thing here that I have mentioned in the previous two cases, namely how much is to be required in tolls. Since the Minister of Transport has shown little interest in helping to clarify it, I will also refer here to the proposition. First of all, under what is called the ‘Financial Plan for E6 Moelv-Øyer’, there is an amount of 5.5 billion. kr in tolls. But if one reads on in the proposition, it says, ‘Gross toll revenue is estimated at approximately 7 800 million. 2019-Kr 5 490 million. 2019-kr is intended to cover part of the investment costs.’;» And once again, the same formula: «Rest income after the contribution to investment costs is intended to cover financing costs and collection costs.» So once again, it's not 5,5 billion. kr which is intended to be incorporated into tolls. Here it's 7.8 billion. kr to be charged to tolls and a total of SEK 2,3 billion. SEK must therefore be allocated to financing and collection costs. Now we're almost done, and there's a call to voting in not too long. Then we will adopt three major road projects. So it's not right, as it's been presented to the public, that in those cases it's estimated that 15.6 billion will be required. kr in tolls. In the three cases, it is estimated that 22 billion will be taken. kr in tolls. There will be a large majority in Stortinget, including the Advance Party, soon to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4791	To all those who came now and thought we were done, it's just to forget it. No, it's not that bad. We're going to round, I just need to comment on a couple of things. To the last time the representative Myrli mentions: he finds the estimates he wants in the proposition, as he himself explained. I think that there is quite a good description of the extent of the toll collection, what estimates are of the financial costs, etc., and that is what we are considering when we are going to vote on this today. So to the representative, Mr Fasteraune: I almost have to take the proposal from the Central Party seriously. Initially, New Roads and the Council of State have put forward a proposal here proposing a four-field route up to Øyer. Then there's a concrete assessment that that's the distance we now want to expand. This means that we actually build a continuous four-field road in the Mjøs area long before it – I had almost said – was planned and started. We're going to end up with a coherent solution early, which means that we get an efficient transport year in this area. If we are going to take seriously that proposal from the Central Party, that means we have to go new rounds of investigations – I can't understand anything else. It will again delay the project. At least it's not something we think for our part is a good idea. We want to get this started and get started as soon as possible, get this in place. It is important for the Mjøs area, but it is also very important as a transport year, not least for the area from which I myself come, which has large imports and exports linked to this road section. Here, I think it's important to deal with the proposition and the assessments that have been made. Making new proposals now, in dealing with the proposition, only means delays, and at least that's not what we're willing to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4804	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e4816	The size is ready to go to voting on the matters on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e5085	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Nils Kristen Sandtrøen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Torgeir Knag County on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government, in cooperation with the Sameting, is asked to present a case highlighting the challenges of today’s apprenticeship system in reindeer management and proposing a fairer model.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e5111	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size asks the government, in cooperation with reindeer management or Sámi institutions, to create maps showing the status of reindeer pastures and to provide a continuous overview of land losses in development cases.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e5336	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals from the Arild Grande have been put forward on behalf of the Labour Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: «The government is asked to establish effective control measures and requirements against NUF companies and against contractor activities.» [[Norwegian branch of non-resident enterprise]] Proposal No. 2 sounds: «The government is asked to draw up a report on the establishment of individual enterprises among migrant workers.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to set up a register of foreign service providers in Norway following the model of the Danish RUT register.’ Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up. Red has announced support for the proposals. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e5378	During the debate, a proposal was put forward by Bente Stein Mathisen on behalf of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. The proposal was tabled to replace you in the vote. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Court of Auditors is asked to examine how the authorities have discharge their responsibilities with regard to: – Examining and clarifying the causes of the Alexander L. Kielland accident and whether the investigation has adequately assessed the responsibilities surrounding the accident. – Follow-up to recommendations from the investigation work, including the implementation of measures to prevent and prevent new accidents. – Follow-up of the survivors and survivors.’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e5420	In the course of the debate, three motions have been put forward, tabled by Mr Knutsen on behalf of the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The size calls on the government to draw up a national overview of the need for VTA sites and to base it on a stepping-up plan to increase the number of VTA sites.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to draw up models to ensure a seamless transition from high school to VTA for young people who need this.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to review the award criteria for VTA sites that ensure that the allocation of seats reflects the real needs of the different counties.’ Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up. Red has announced support for the proposals. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e5461	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Liv Kari Eskeland on behalf of the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party. the proposals No 2–5, from Else-May Botten Norderhus on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Environment Party of the Greens proposal No 7, from Bears Moxnes on behalf of Red For the sake of order, the President shall draw attention to the fact that proposal No. 6 was not recorded. There is a vote on proposal No. 7 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking in the context of the development of electricity from sea wind to ensure that increased production is replaced domestic fossil energy use, to increase access to reasonable and clean energy as a competitive advantage for Norwegian industry and to ensure the security of supply to consumers. Exports of new power generation from sea wind shall not be facilitated.’;» The Central Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e5492	There is a vote on proposal No. 2. from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to take the initiative of North Sea cooperation for the development of a long-term management plan for sea wind for exports to Europe.’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e5507	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3–5, from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that the Norwegian base has a capacity of 3 GW by 2030.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to set a target for Norway to have a 10 pst. market share of global turnover in the marine wind market and a turnover of 50 billion. kroner by 2030, and to facilitate this.» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government of the State budget for 2020 is asked to propose a commitment to power generation based on solar cells and other renewable technologies, such as geothermal energy and wave power, with a target of 15 TWh total production by 2030.’» Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e5566	Alternatively, between the setting and proposal No. 1, from the Right, from the Party of Advancement, from the Left, and from the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 8:119 S [[2018–2019]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e5585	Three proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Liv Kari Eskeland on behalf of Right, Advance Party, Left and Christian People's Party proposal No 2, by Sandra Borch on behalf of the Centre Party and the Greens proposal No 3, by Arne Nävra on behalf of the Socialist Left Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to propose amendments to the wind concession law to make it the same for public ownership of wind power as for hydropower.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e5615	There is a vote on proposal No. 2. from the Centre Party and the Environment Party of the Greens. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that wind power development decisions are in line with local and local government decisions. Concession may not be granted in breach of local government decisions.’.» Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e5652	Alternatively, between the setting and proposal No. 1, from the Right, from the Party of Advancement, from the Left, and from the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 8:142 S [[2018–2019]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e5673	In the course of the debate, all nine proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Arne Nävra on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 2-9, by Arne Nävra on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the next rollover of the National Transport Plan to add to an increased commitment to train provision between Norway and Scandinavian and European cities.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e5699	An alternative will be used between the setting and the proposal No. 2–9, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e5704	No, President, I can't. The working party shall neither vote in favour of the proposals nor in favour of the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e5709	No – it’s nice that it’s quiet in the hall while we try to think. It is then recommended that the Workers' Party support the vote, that the proposal for a representative be 'not adopted'.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e5716	No, the Working Party does not support this setting and cannot support it. We in the Labour Party are only voting in favour of our proposal – which we have together with the Central Party and the Socialist Left – which has just fallen.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e5721	By voting in favour of the vote, you do not vote in favour of the motions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e5726	No, but the vote is, President, that the proposal is not adopted. We don't want to vote for that. In voting, one cannot set the vote and the proposals against another, because it does not give the opportunity to vote against both the proposals of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party and the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e5731	The Labour Party does not really want to vote for anything, because the vote is that the proposal is not adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e5736	President! Just one suggestion: I wonder if it is technically possible to split up the voting?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e5742	Yeah, we'll get it. We get to the representative Myrli will, if we get a little bit of time. [[Laughter]] It is then voted on the proposals Nos. 2–9, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to facilitate, as soon as possible, continuous express trains between Oslo and Copenhagen, with good night and continent transitions, which Swedish authorities are now working to establish.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure better route information and ticket booking solutions for train journeys between Norway and Europe.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to establish night and night between Oslo and Berlin.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that Swedish SJs want more and faster train departures between Stockholm and Oslo, without increased government grants, can be realised.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that several sleeping cars are acquired for the existing night workers in Norway. Some of the vehicles should have a simpler standard with several bed places in each cabin, which is favourable, among other things, for groups and families travelling together and which facilitates the train’s competition in the low-cost segment.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to make sure that it is possible to purchase tickets in a divided cabin at night and in Norway as soon as possible.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking to strengthen the night and offer by offering as far as possible that passengers can sleep out before leaving the train on arrival early in the morning, as well as that passengers can lie down in vehicles coupled to the train during the night.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government asks to restore offers for the night and also on Saturdays.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e5817	Three proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Kirsti Leirtrø on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party proposal No 2, by Arne Nävra on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 3, from Bengt Fasterale on behalf of the Centre Party There is a vote on proposal No. Three, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that any cost savings in the project benefit the drivers through reduced tolls.’ The Labour Party and Red have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e5846	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to come back with a proposition that reduces the planned expansion of the E18 Langangen-Dørdal to a 2/3-field road.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e5863	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to assess the total amount of the guarantee for toll projects that Telemark county councils are entitled to bear.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e5892	The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e5908	During the debate, a total of four...
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e5913	My vote was not recorded during the previous vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e5918	No, we're done with that. [[Laughter]] As I said instead, there are four proposals in all. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Kirsti Leirtrø on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party proposal No 3, by Arne Nävra on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 4, from Bengt Fasterale on behalf of the Centre Party There is a vote on proposal No. Four from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that any cost savings in the project benefit the drivers through reduced tolls.’ The Labour Party and Red have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e5949	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to come back with a proposition that reduces the planned expansion of Ulsberg-Melhus to a 2/3-field road to reduce costs, emissions and natural interference.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e5966	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to assess the total amount of the guarantee for toll projects for which it is safe for the County of Trendelag to carry.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to clarify on a principle basis how much guarantee a county municipality can provide in connection with the financing of state roads.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e6002	The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e6014	President! I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e6019	Right now the president got a little bad conscience towards the representative, Bård Hoksrud. Are there any others who haven't received a vote? – Then we take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e6037	Four proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Kirsti Leirtrø on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party the proposals No 2 and 4, from Bengt Fasterale on behalf of the Centre Party, proposal No 3, by Arne Nävra on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. Four from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that any cost savings in the project benefit the drivers through reduced tolls.’ The Labour Party and Red have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e6066	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to come back with a proposal that will reduce the planned expansion of E6 on the Moelv-Øyer route in Hedmark and Uppland to a two-/three-field road to reduce costs, emissions and natural interference.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e6083	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to assess the financial savings that can be made and the reduction in cropland that can be achieved by a change from the planned four-field to a 2/3-field road from Lillehammer and northwards.’ The Greens and Reds have announced subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e6100	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to assess the total amount of the guarantee for toll projects that Uppland county councils are entitled to bear.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e6129	The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-19.ana.ud569e6169	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - That's not what it looks like. The meeting has been cancelled.
