ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e79	Honourable co-representatives! Former depositor Ole Johs. Brunæs passed away on February 24, 83 years old. Brunæs represented Right and Westfold on the Stortinget for three periods, from 1989 to 2001. He is described by co-representatives as an employee, capable and caring colleague – a team player. After graduation at Nordstrand Höhere School in 1955, Brunæs Falskolan completed the cavalry in 1957. Then he graduated as a civil engineer in marine engineering at the Norwegian Technical College. This was also his professional track – first a few years as designer at the Nakskov Shipyard in Denmark from 1964, later at the Framnæs Mechanical Workshop in Sandefjord. Here he advanced to technical director in 1973. When the yard was reorganized into a group in 1986, Brunæs became the managing director of the parent company Framnæs Industrivning. From 1988 to 1989 he was CEO of the engineering company Keftech at the former Kaldnes Mechanical Workshop in Tønsberg. Before he was elected to Stortinget, Brunæs was also a member of the Sandefjord City Board from 1980 to 1983, chairman of the Sandefjord Right from 1980 to 1986 and chairman of the Norwegian Employers' Association and the NHO Departments in Vestfold and Telemark from 1984 to 1989. He also served as chairman of the Norwegian Civil Engineering Association as well as of the Vestfold Ship Engineering Association and Board member and later Chairman of Sandefjord Airport in the pioneer hours of the airport. With this background it was natural that Brunæs on Stortinget became an engaged businessman. He was also socially engaged and a spokesperson for better communication solutions. He followed this up for the first four years as elected to the Social Committee, in the last eight years of the Committee on Transport, with a new E18 through Westfold as an important battle cause. Brunæs was a delegate to the UN General Assembly in 1992 and for two periods a member of the Stortinget Group of the Interparliamentary Union, IPU. Health imposed every restriction and was an important reason why he chose not to apply for a denomination for the Grand Duchy before the 2001 elections. But his social commitment did not end with it. He also contributed regularly, after time at Stortinget, with advice and input into matters that were important to the county and the party, often in the form of encouraging messages – critical when he was not satisfied, but always constructive and concerned with finding good solutions. We shine peace over Ole Johs. Brunæs’ memory.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e108	The representatives of Torhild Bransdal, Willfred Nordlund and Hadia Tajik, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. The called alternate of the Rogaland County, Eirik Faret Sakariassen, now takes the seat. The Socialist Group of the Left-wing Group has applied for welfare leave from 7 May to 9 May for the representative of Mr Knag Fylkesnes. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Katrine Boel Gregussen, is called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e144	Katrine Boel Gregussen is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e155	From the Prime Minister's office there is the following letter to Stortinget, dated 3 May 2019: ‘Amendments by Governments and State Secretaries State Council was held at Oslo Castle on 3 May 2019 at 9.30 p.m. 1100 under the direction of His Majesty the King. The following decision was adopted: State Council Åse Michaelsen is given away in grace. Deputy Mayor Sylvi Listhaug is appointed to the Council of State and takes over the Administrative Board of the Department of Health and Older People’s Health. The Ministry of Health and Welfare is run by two constitutionally responsible state councils. The division of responsibility for work and laws established by the Royal Resolution of 27 April 2018, between the Councils of State of Höie and Michaelsen, is also founded between the Councils of State of Höie and Listhaug. State Secretary Espen Espeset is pardoned as Secretary of State for Prime Minister Erna Solberg. Senior Adviser Lars Joakim Dalånes Hanssen is appointed State Secretary for Prime Minister Erna Solberg. State Secretary Anne Bramo is pardoned as Secretary of State for Åse Michaelsen and is re-appointed State Secretary for State Council Sylvi Listhaug in the Ministry of Health and Welfare. The ranking of the members of the Government shall be determined in accordance with the proposals submitted. All the amendments made above shall take effect on 3 May 2019 at the latest. 1200.’» The President proposed that the referenced letter be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Other alternates of the More and Romsdal counties, Knut Magne Flölo, have taken the seat of representative of the time Sylvi Listhaug is a member of the government. Furthermore, the Storting has received a letter from the Prime Minister's office dated 3 May 2019 with a Royal Resolution on changes in the ministerial structure and in the division of responsibilities between the ministries. The President referred to points 5 to 7: ‘5. The name of the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality is hereby changed to the Ministry of Child and Family Affairs. 6th@item: inlistbox The Ministry of Children's and Family Affairs assumes responsibility for the field of faith and life from the Ministry of Culture. 7th@item: inlistbox The Ministry of Culture assumes responsibility for the work on equality and discrimination issues from the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs.’ The amendments entered into force on 3 May 2019 at 10 a.m. 12th@item: inlistbox – This is taken into account. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e220	Four years ago, a majority in the United Kingdom adopted major structural changes in the higher education and university sectors. Yes, there was no way how many synergies it would give, there was no way it would increase the quality of the entire sector, while one from all teams assured us that it would not involve any sort of centralisation of study places. What was not discussed four years ago was whether the higher education mission would continue to exist or whether the structural changes and the structural reform meant that all higher education now became, in reality, a university. There was also no discussion as to whether higher education had any special qualities that were important and should be maintained and further developed. The absence of that type of debate was striking. I think this is related to the fact that the majority of the population wanted the sector to do the job for the majority and for the government at the time, and that one would therefore say the least about content in future higher education, because taking the minimum political responsibility was almost an objective during the examination of the structural reform. That is why we also had a structural reform, shaped by chance, designed without any clear objectives of how university education should be conducted by candidates for regional employment and business, with no clear objectives for the development of the university sector. The result was also a sign of it. NTNU led, and they were selected on the basis of purely professional criteria. The others had to set up new universities according to geographical criteria — and this has led to a slightly diverse composition, one must say — while some places chose the universities to pass. The result is a rather unwieldy picture, professionally speaking, of the institutions, and it is also the result of institutions continuing to falsify in terms of the content and quality of the new structures. Throughout this process, the Centre Party has strongly warned against the fact that the majority was not willing to take a stronger political responsibility for objectives and frameworks for the university and higher education sectors. We were particularly concerned about two things. One was that in the case of shorter education and vocational training, the special assignments of the higher education institutions were to be decimated. The second was that the aggregations were to mean the beginning of a number of centralisations of study sites. Today we see that in many ways we got right. No longer does anyone seem to have any clear thoughts about what the college assignment should be for anything. It's about to disappear. Closely everyone is aiming towards becoming a small or large university. But how are the new universities going to operate? Is everyone going to enter into a pattern from the old universities, or does college professorships require a new form of the university concept? Are some of the old universities going to be allowed to make progress towards being more internationally excellent than other universities? Do we allow that type of differentiation? And what happens to the task of the old colleges when it comes to meeting the need for labour regionally? None of these issues have been the subject of a wide-ranging debate. Many of these questions remain completely unanswered. Through the process at Nord University, we can see that an attempt is being made to pay for lack of funding, poor implementation time for the reform, and also too tight counting edges with publication credits and doctoral programmes. One tries to answer that with the closure of lines and places of study. Once again, centralization is the only answer. At the same time, the principal simply denies all responsibility for society around him. It's quite eye-catching, considering the many fine words that have previously been said about the societal mission and the relationship with society around it. If the government now allows Nord University to carry out a centralization without intervention, my prediction is that more will come after. The University of South East Norway is probably next door, and we could get a wave of closures of study places in different places in the country. In the process of North University, government and state councils have tried to keep an arm's length distance. At the same time, it is a fact that one has included entries in the Nordic University Letter on structure that no other university has received in its letters of assignment. In recent times, the Council of State has changed its strategy. Through the letter sent to the Nordic University last week, the Council of State asks that one not advance processes in other sectors, and asks that one take account of social life regionally. As I see it, the elected councillor with that letter to give a pure warning to the board. It would have been good if the government could have been less ambiguous and unclear in these questions. The way in which one chooses the off/off-button on a political basis — for that is what one does — does not make it easier for the communities affected or for the board to manoeuvre. After 6,000 people demonstrated in Namsos last week, the party leader in the Left, Trine Skei Grande, came on the field and was very clear. She said, ‘I was mildly shocked when I was presented with the proposal’ – about centralisation – ‘through the media. This dismays me that a proposal can be presented that is disconnected from all the objectives we have for the development of the region.’ She also said that the Vice-Chancellor’s position ‘is backwards in view of the challenges facing us in Norway’. My question to the Council of State is whether she agrees with the party leader's description of the proposal that is now being dealt with at North University, that it is disconnected from the region, and that it is reversed in view of the challenges we face? As I said, state councils have been so elusive, she has chosen the political button, but this is what I think she should respond to today. This does not apply only to Namsos. Both Steinkjer and Nesna have recently concluded ten-year leases for their activities. The question is whether these agreements should only run while the study places are being tapped for students. In Steinkjer, following strong calls from the Nordic countries, the municipality has built an innovation campus for nearly half a billion dollars, which Nord will no longer use. At the top of it all, the board's discussions express that one now has to ask the state for money to expand the campuses that remain in Levanger and Bodø. So one has to ask the state first to pay rent for ten years for premises that you no longer want to use, and then ask the state to pay for new buildings on the centralised campus. I cannot understand anything but that there is a waste of money, in the name of centralization. I would also like to have some thoughts about that from the Council of State. It takes time to build a university. North University should spend time building professional development stone by stone. They could have done that. Instead, they will now use the next few years to deal with conflicts with the community around them, with employees, with students and with a political party. It's going to take attention, forces and resources away from what's important in the development of the university. Unfortunately, Nord has challenges, but at the same time they are one of the universities that are growing most in the field of doctoral degrees in 2018, and they are also growing in the number of publication credits. As far as doctoral degrees are concerned, they are in fact just below OsloMet, for example, or the University of Agder. But I have to say, I'm sorry that a person often uses measures about the number of first-choice applicants as a measure of how good an institution is. The competition for such a goal is doomed to create losers among universities. The only way to avoid such a goal being part of the creation of losers is for a group to have a strong undercover of study places. A much more important goal of whether the students are satisfied with the apprenticeship they attend is the so-called student barometer. In many areas north, the student barometer, both the nurses in Namsos, and the teachers at Nesna, is very happy. In Namsos, the student community receives 4.2 out of 5 points and teacher training receives 4.1, which is far above the average. It is also important to take into account a situation where it is easy for politicians from different parties to talk down a study site. The centre party can see no meaning in what is now proposed for the North. We don't think this will solve one of the professional challenges that the university is facing. But this is a result of the whole development I've seen of the structural reform in the UH sector. It's about to get out wrong, and that's among other things. in the process of getting out of hand because we have not discussed the overall objectives of the reform and what should be the task.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e264	Higher education has always played an important role in the development of Norway. First as a nation building – the University of Royal Frederik was founded in 1811. In the years following World War II, the number of students increased sharply, and university education went from being reserved for a small elite to becoming an opportunity for many. We also got other types of educational institutions. Scientific colleges were established, and in the 1970s district colleges and regional colleges came. These were specifically responsible for contributing to regional development and training the necessary competences for what we can call the welfare sectors, for example. by training teachers, nurses and engineers. After the growth of students and institutional development in the 1980s, the education system had become quite intrigued. In 1989, universities and scientific colleges were subject to the same regulation. There was no legal regulation of the regional colleges. They were very badly run from the department. In addition to the 1990s, a desire for equal treatment between universities and colleges developed, while many saw that resources were spread too thinly. From 1994 98 colleges were merged to 26. It should provide coordination, efficiency and better guidance both between departments and institutions and within institutions. In 2003, the quality reform was introduced. Through the quality reform, universities and universities gained greater autonomy in organising their own activities and taking responsibility for the quality of education and research. In 2005, we received today’s law on university and higher education. The law states that all higher education institutions — universities, scientific colleges or colleges, state or private — have the same social role. They shall provide research-based education, carry out research and contribute to innovation and value creation. So it's been quite a long time since universities were the only ones that were supposed to be researching, and colleges were all about being responsible for short vocational training and regional development. Both universities and universities have important regional roles today. This is also the basis for structural reform. The organisation of the State part of the higher education sector and the decision on the aggregations to be carried out are the responsibility of the government. At the same time, it is a policy area that is very important, not just for those who work and study at our universities and colleges, but for the whole of society. For this reason, in 2015 the government issued a paper on the structural reform, Meld. St. 18 for 2014–2015, Concentration on Quality — Structural Reform in the Higher Education Sector. In this way, the government raised debate, discussion and anchoring in the Storting before changes were implemented. The regional role of institutions is a central theme of the Structural Communication. The Communication presented six objectives of structural reform, two of them directly linked to the regional role. Firstly, there shall be good access to education and competence throughout the country and, secondly, to regional development. Regardless of where the training is offered, they must be anchored in sound professional environments and maintain high quality. Study facilities need to be adapted to different types of students and provide opportunities to learn throughout their lives. Some places of study have been difficult to attract students and employees. There has been a sustained trend, and population trends in the future suggest that some places of study may have even worse recruitment in the coming years. In order to meet these developments, it has been important for institutions to have sufficiently large professional environments, to be able to convert activities and provide training where there is the greatest need and demand. Structural reform thus emphasises the regional role of universities and higher education institutions and their contribution to regional development. The structural message, on page 44, clearly states: «The mergers that the government will undertake relate to institutions, not to study places. The University and Higher Education Act states that the Board of Directors of an institution is responsible for the strategy, the organisation and the allocation of resources.’.» The places where an institution is to study, how to organise education and research and what to offer where is part of the responsibility of the board of directors of the institution. Rich politicians, local politicians, representatives of employment and business can and should be concerned with these issues and have clear views. We need more, no less commitment to and from the UH sector. Governors may consider and take them into account when making their decisions. But it is the governments that know their own needs, limitations and opportunities best, and therefore the governments that have been given responsibility for the organisation of the institutions. Nord universitet was formed by merging a new university and two higher education institutions. The University is now in a period of transition to extract the effects of the merger, and the Board has just discussed the process of examining the Vice-Chancellor's proposal for a new study location structure. The proposal involves changes — both strengthening somewhere and weakening some. The proposal has now been sent to the hearing and the Management Board has committed itself to taking a decision at the end of June. The Board of Directors has requested that any further assessments be made, and that these, together with different inputs, be part of the decision-making basis. It is the board that is responsible for determining the internal organisation of activities at all levels, and evaluating the location structure and the provision of study facilities is part of that responsibility. But our universities have to be able to have two thoughts in their heads at the same time. They shall at all times try to be the best possible, while at the same time being able to supply candidates as food and labour demand, and it is important that they do both. I have also stressed that in a letter to the university. A solid and strong North University with a presence north of Trøndelag and in Nordland is important. In my dialogue with universities and colleges, I am concerned that they provide education that meets the needs of society, nationally and regionally. I feel that the institutions have the same interests. They will provide education that is demanded, they will equip themselves for the needs that come tomorrow. Conversion is difficult, and conversion can take time. When the institutions look at the education they offer, or assess the location structure, I am concerned that they have good processes, and that they listen to different interests before making decisions. They must take into account both the need to have high-quality education and research and the importance of their role in the regions. The Ministry follows this up through the development agreements concluded between the Ministry and the Boards and through the governance dialogue. In the case of North University, as mentioned, I have already addressed this in a separate letter. It's part of my control. It is important to me as the Council of State that institutions make good and thorough assessments, and that they have contact with their environment, both before and after decisions are taken. I believe that this is an important condition for universities and higher education institutions to best meet regional and national needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e307	I thank the Council of State for its response. It is clear that there has been a great deal of development of the Norwegian higher education and university structure and changes up over the years — the Council of State started quite a long time ago — but nothing has happened so much after coincidences such as the structural reform we received four years ago. Never before has it been entirely left to the maritime sector and no overall goal has been set for what is going to be the task of the higher education sector in the years to come. What are they going to do? If everyone becomes a university, to which we now see a tendency, what's the new university concept? Is that the old term, with adaptations, or are we going to create a new university concept? Should we allow some universities to be more focused and more internationally oriented than the others? Who would possibly dare to say it straight out? I have at least not heard that the government has dared to say so. The problem is that none of these issues have been the subject of a wide-ranging debate. Many of these questions remain unanswered, and the political will to answer them is small. Governments point to the issue of good access to competences across the country and regional cooperation as important. I agree, but the numerator edges you're operating with don't promote this. The numerators you're operating with in the funding, they're giving you something else. The fact that you look at the search and the number of first-choice applicants is a centralizing component. If Nord University attracts a percentage of 1,4 or 2,4 first-choice applicants, then it does not matter. The most important thing is whether it is good enough to carry out the study. It's almost impossible to have such a counting edge as a measure if you want to avoid centralizing. I'm glad to see what goals to have for the good intentions of good access to competences across the country and regional cooperation, because it's not on the counters, as I see it. I'm recording that the Council of State is draining the water and waiting for what the board's treatment is going to lead to. It will be exciting to see what the government and the state council do if the board maintains what they have now proposed. After all, the government is not powerless towards Nord University's government. You can replace it, replace all the external members, put in a new board and put in place leadership for both regional cooperation and maintaining the number of study places. At the end of June we'll probably see if what you're saying today about colleges, just wrapping paper, or if it really means something.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e324	The representative Arnstad starts his second post by thanking for the answer, and then I feel like I should start my first post by thanking for the interpellation, because I really think that discussing the universities and our colleges is something we should do more and not less. That we have this debate raised in Stortinget, I think it is good – so thank you for the interpellation. The representative asks me a few questions that I'm going to try to answer a little bit. First of all, are all universities going to be the same, or are we going to open up a differentiation between universities? To that end, I would say that today the universities and colleges are subject to the same legislation, and they have a social mission that is both to provide research-based education and to fill the regional need for education for work and business. And then they're going to do research, it's going to do both colleges and universities. But there are differences in universities today. First of all, there are historical differences that make them have different funding and that make some people have a larger room for action than others. Some of our universities are more concerned with feeding internationally. Some of our universities are busy making an image or a profile that is different from the others, and I think that's good. I think it's good that we have the University of Oslo, which is very concerned about its international profile. So we could say the same thing about NTNU. We differentiate in different ways, and one of the ways we do it is through development agreements. Then the department and universities agree on what to do with the next few years. We're engaged in sharing responsibilities, we're committed to having different types of universities and colleges, even if they have the same social mission, and even if they're subject to the same legislation. Then ask the representative for the statements of Trine Skei Grande. I probably haven't read all the statements she's made, so I can't say whether I agree or not, but what I can say is that I experienced the principal's proposal as a little bit too one-sided on one side of the assignment, that is, strengthening the quality of North University. That's why I wanted to send a letter that I signaled that the second part also needs to be stressed – delivering good candidates to the employment and business community in the region. I am concerned that the board must have two thoughts in its head at once. I believe that they have a good government at Nord universitet, and I trust that the board of directors at Nord universitet looks at the whole thing before they make their decision at the end of June.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e335	First, I would like to thank the representative Arnstad for raising an important debate in principle here. And the debate is principleal, but the interpellation comes in the extension of the public vocabulary around the future of North University, after the Constituent Vice-Chancellor has proposed for the University Board to shut down the places of study at Nesna and in Lake Sandness and change the study structure otherwise. The Governing Board shall take its decision in June. First of all, it's important to establish one basic premise, that this is where the right-wing government gets what they've asked for. It was the right-wing government that took the initiative that the University of Nordland should be merged with the University of Nord-Trøndelag and the University of Nesna and become North University. It is the responsibility of the right-wing government to ensure that the bundling leads to a better supply of education and research for the whole region. In December 2018 the government asked Nord universitet to decide a new structure by summer 2019. Now North University does what the government has asked for. The right-hand government has required a new structure. The letter of award is the Ministry of Knowledge's guidance document to the institutions in the sector, and when you look at this year's letter of award to Nord universitet, which has been sent on 19 December 2018, the department writes among others. the university shall: ‘Determinate a new study location structure by the end of February 2019, which contains principles for the differentiation of professional and administrative activities at the different places of study. Decide a comprehensive campus development plan for North University based on future study location structure by summer 2019.» So the right-wing government has asked the university to change its structure. Therefore, it is surprising that the Council of State Nybø, prior to the last board meeting, sent letters to the university about its own mission. How are the principals in the sector to interpret that kind of signal? Do they apply, or do they relate to the government's letter of award? This creates an unhappiness – which is also the subject of the representative Arnstad – that is unfortunate. The right hand control also writes: «The objectives of the agreement shall be realised within existing financial resources.» And on the other hand, ‘The main challenge is to gain a sufficient share of first-rate competence and excellence as well as quality work to improve the quality of the university’s study programme.’ Despite this, the right-wing government has not invested in Nord universitet. They have not allocated enough places of study and recruitment to build and strengthen the professional communities after the merger. And that's my second key point: the right-wing government has a lack of focus on the social mission in the region. The government has not placed a significant emphasis on the possibility and necessity of building strong, decentralised education in the region, despite the lack of professionals such as teachers and nurses in the North-Trundellag and Helgeland. Nor is the role of the university in the reform of competences specifically addressed by the right-wing government. This is a very central part of the Workers' Party's competence reform. We see that universities, colleges and colleges have a key role to play in providing continuing education. We want to stimulate schools to contribute more to a necessary reinforced commitment to skills building, i.e. to provide good professional environments for business and working life education tailored to regional needs. This has not been mentioned by the government in the objectives of the Nord universitet either as a requirement or as an opportunity. The right-wing government is incomprehensiblely passive in meeting the major shifts and needs for skills that are growing. Working and social life is undergoing a major transformation. Digitalisation is a very significant driving force for this, but the government is so little proactive that Norway is slowing down, even though we have all the prerequisites for taking the driver's seat. We have a high number of applicants for higher education; there is an increased need for competence across the country. We need an offensive bet for a new time. The Labour Party has proposed 3,000 new study places in its budget, including: in the fields of teacher training, nursing, ICT and technology. We have proposed new research programmes, for example: for professional training and ICT. and more recruitment positions to develop more solid professional environments. It would help Nord University fulfill its societal mission, and it would provide a more predictable economy. The Workers' Party is concerned about training enough people with the skills that the region needs. Now it's time for the right-wing government to take responsibility for raising Nord University.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e372	First of all, I would like to thank the inter-pellant Arnstad for raising the debate. There is no doubt that ensuring the good work of society in the university and higher education sectors – thinking about society as a whole and ensuring business and social life access to highly educated personnel – is incredibly important. That is exactly why we have seen a shift in the pace of investing in higher education since the government change in 2013. We have had a budget increase in the R & D sector of 13 pst, we see that there are record appropriations for research that we have now passed well and well over 2 pst. of the GDP of R & D, we see that industry is taking its part, and we also see that the university and higher education sectors are actively contributing. All of this helps to raise Norway’s competitiveness and build creative and innovative environments that will create the unknown – what we will live on in the future. It's incredibly important. That's why it's a little strange to hear the representative Sandberg and others try to draw a little creative story of history related to what we've really had a pretty broad consensus about here in the Chamber over a lot of years – this with SAK: collaboration, work sharing and concentration. The background for this, of course, was the need to build strong research environments and higher education environments in this country. Then there was very little cooperation, division of labour and concentration. The red-greens didn't work at all. It was actually a complete failure, which is why you agreed to go further. You'd go further. Real convergence had to be achieved, so that within a new organisational structure there would be cooperation, division of labour and concentration. That is why SAKS was put in place, and through the process we have now set ourselves, I believe we have seen a lot of good results from that work. For example, in my own home country, Troms, which is now going to be Troms and Finnmark, we have the old college in Finnmark. It is insofar as one of the things happened under the red-green government – the merger with the Finnish State College. That's what I'm going to draw out as a positive story I'm going to give them credit for doing well to land. Once again, when you succeed in getting the cooperation, division of labour and concentration in the good way, the positive way in which you gather the professional environments, but at the same time ensure that within that organisation and within these professional environments you contribute to spreading the fan out there, i.e. that you have access to more educational opportunities and more training courses in the districts, then you can also get more students and build a stronger place of study and a stronger organisation. This is the experience we have at UiT – the Arctic University of Norway. We have record searches and campers in Harstad, Narvik and Alta. Many places throughout the country we have study places and contribute to decentralised education, including: by the fact that UiT, together with the municipalities and county councils, has provided e.g.: study centre at Finnsnes, study centre at Storslett, etc. There are things that show that this is true. I see that we are also successful in the West and the Inland. It's cooperation, division of labour and concentration that's in focus, and at the same time we get the whole of District Norway, the whole country, going into use. In this way, I believe that what came from the principal and administrative management at Nord universitet was disappointing, because in that case, you might not be able to weight the whole. That's why I'm very pleased with the response from the Council of State, which has sent a letter clarifying what is the societal mission. I have also been very clear that when you are going to have these processes and go through the mission you have on behalf of the big community, you also have to ensure that everyone has access to good education in their vicinity, in their region. For example, I'm registering. that there are more primary applicants, in terms of counting edges, for teacher training in Nesna than, for example: for the study of teachers in Bodø. There may be a think-tank, and there is something the board at Nord University should focus on the further process when thinking about how to manage good quality studies while ensuring that everyone across the region has access to the studies. I actually came from Mo in Rana and Nesna yesterday. On that visit I experienced many engaged, beautiful and good professionals, and I expect them to say their own in the further process.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e393	Thank you to the representative Arnstad, who has raised this important educational debate into the Stortinget. As a northerner, I am still amazed at how often I am presented in the role of a staging representative, a Norway map that is cut just north of Trondheim. Perhaps all of these cut maps may be the reason why the Prime Minister himself makes statements like ‘up there’ when she refers to the north. But this map doesn't match the terrain. We control a Norway, a territory, with sea, air and land that actually goes from the North Pole including Svalbard to the Polar Circle and a large and important sea area. Northernland, which is my county, is so big it makes up a quarter of the coastline of the mainland. The operating profit for the Nordic farms is approximately NOK 40000 per minute, and on average they have an operating margin clearly better than the national average. If this value creation is to continue, there is a need for competence, good communities and good services close to people. But it's hard to recruit nurses in Northernland. Today we need 600 nurses in the county, and the number is rising. Common to most municipalities in the Nordic countries is lack of teachers. This is achieved by the fact that positions as teachers are occupied with unqualified or under-qualified labour. It affects the youngest and the weakest in our society. Many teachers are soon retired, and Minister Nybø has been on tour in the north to get more applicants for teacher training. In this situation, the Nord University message comes that they are to centralize teacher and nurse training. Nesna, with a 100th anniversary as a teacher training institution, is to be removed. The sandy lake, which provides on average 19-20 nurses per year, shall be removed. They have a fantastic result to show by that 93 pst. of those who have a residence address on Helgeland at the start of the study, also have a residence address on Helgeland now. Stokmarknes, which has the largest number of applicants for the nursing study, based on the number of places of study offered, shall be removed by moving the educational staff to Bodø. When all representatives of the Nordic University say that it is not their responsibility for municipalities not to get access to teachers and nurses in the Nordic countries, this becomes almost tragic. The educational institution responsible for higher education waives this responsibility and refers to publications instead of the lack of nurses and teachers. The government and the majority of the population are depriving themselves of responsibility and saying that Nord University needs to centralize its study offerings to keep budgets in place. But the losers are the Nordic municipalities, which don't get qualified teachers and nurses. The tapes are the kids, the elderly and the sick. And the losers are in the long run all over Norway, which can miss out on a great and important value creation. In the case of Nesna, I didn't recognize the numbers in the report of North University either. We know that Nesna went into the 130-million merger. kr, which has been digested. We believe that on Nesna it has been cut from day one of the merger in the offers. They have been given increased hybelprizes, canteens, student kindergartens and lost the opportunity to promote their own studies. Nesna is a founding pillar of the three merged institutions of the North University and contributes with funding provided by the Stortinget to the Nesna High School, now part of the North University. Nord universitet can't really take away Nesna without risking losing awards similar to what the Nesna University received. Removing an institution that Nesna established and using funding elsewhere may not be legitimate. We cannot accept this. Now it's time for Nybø to send another letter and let Nord University be geographically large and have the framework to have the campuses needed to maintain a steady Nordic society in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e416	Thanks to the inter-pellant: As important as higher education and university education are, all politicians must be able to have an opinion on it. That's what the Council of State said. Then I'm going to say very clearly what SV thinks about the proposal that has now been made by Nord universitet – we are against that. We believe that this is contrary to the social mission of universities and colleges. Higher education institutions and universities must also have an obligation to contribute to local and regional development and to provide the whole country with the skills required by both individuals, the public sector and private business. You have to do this together. I've been working on this for a very long time. In 1989, I attended and started a college in Kongsvinger, an area that has been very low on education statistics for many years. What we know is that having access to education in their community, like an institution, but at least having access to education, it gets more generalized and not so scary and dangerous. It also looks like people who are trying to get into higher education when they're grown up – that they're doing fine, they just haven't believed in it before. It is necessary that we now ensure that universities and universities also have this perspective. I know very well that they are now fighting up in a qualification or in a sort of ‘ranking’ to be internationally recognised, getting high quality. All of this is also important, but if the individual institution that we are now creating is just focusing on that side of its mission, the pointed assignment, we're going to bomb on one of the most important things, namely to ensure that a maximum proportion of the population that needs it will get the higher education we need as communities and individuals. That's what we have to make sure now. Then the Council of State has to make sure of that. And if there's anything in this management system we have to look at to get it to, let's do it, because now everyone, including the representative from the Right, says this is important. Then we have to look at how we control this, how we judge it, and how we finance it. Now the majority of people have also adopted a regional reform, which I do not seem to have been the most brilliant thing that has happened, but some of what is good, and as the government has also said, is that county councils can have a key role in the future development of competences. The new counties must then also have a stronger influence on how the education system can be regulated locally, and they must be given their own resources so that they can facilitate and contribute to more decentralised higher education outside the places of study. That's absolutely necessary. Higher education institutions and universities need to be better paid to do this. Then they also get a separate and different incentive, and it's necessary to learn about the results of such education as it turns out to be very good. In this way, universities and colleges should have a good count for that sea too. In the interior, where I belong, it's now working to become a university. When I see the results -- I've always been a little daring to that idea, but I've been thinking that if they think it's seagoing, I'm going to support it -- of what's happening in the north, I'm worried, because the decentralised structure helps recruit people right, and it also contributes to some acute environments that are completely unique. In Hedmark, for example, we have the Evenstad environment, located in the Østerdalen. Many would say that it's far from people, but it's one of the most international, acute and highly competent environments we have. So the will to just see that it has to be big and hard for it to be eaten, good and highly competent, is not right. We have to make sure that the universities and colleges are just taking that community assignment right now, because then they're also getting that tip, and we're getting a width both geographically and in subjects, which we're not doing if you just compete very closely with other universities on very narrow subject themes, for which there's a little less use.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e429	As the water wheel needs water, people need education. The mission of higher education institutions has been mainly to provide shorter and more focused education tailored to people's lives, with the working-day and the industries it is in those parts of the country where they are. It is not surprising that the regional social mission when colleges are merged into a university is subordinated. Our criticism was just that the training courses that are regionally adapted would be depleted. It does not help with regional development objectives when requirements and funds do not meet the objectives. State Secretary Haugstad from the Right said there would be no fewer places of study after the structural reform when he agreed to present it. This statement commented on the Research and Higher Education Minister Nybø to the journal Research Forum, where she assumed that he did not believe that everything should be exactly as it was, in the future: "It's never something that stays the way it is. It's all the way evolution in ways of looking at things and doing things, answers Nybø." Here in Stortinget, however, the Council of State expresses that structural changes should not go beyond the study sites. It must be as long as the university boards make the decisions that the government is innocent. The new universities are under strong pressure, both economically and professionally. Despite promises that the structural reform would not lead to the closure of campers, we are now in the situation that several institutions are discussing the very future study structure. Following students, professors and other employees well up in large geographical areas we understand that is demanding. NTNU, with its study places distributed in the heart of fjord and town and on each side of Dovrefjell, still work consciously with organization and professional construction. The University of South East Norway notes how demanding it is with different population backgrounds, different traditions and professional environments. Nord universitet is the institution with the largest geographical distribution. OsloMet also has challenges in terms of distribution between Oslo and Kjeller, without the travel distance being the cause. Even the Inland College looks at its places of study already in preparation for an application to become a university. Norway needs more nurses and teachers, not fewer. I got the question: The teacher training at Nesna was established by the Stortinget – can a non-people elected board really adopt a closure? I got a guilty answer. Where are the political accountability and impact assessments here? The social benefits of higher education were considered to be far higher than the costs at the time of their establishment. Nesna is one of the oldest colleges in North Norway and has history all the way back to 1918. Mergers as a tool for solving problems are in themselves worth a discussion. The question now becomes who will benefit from increased professional quality if the places of study are gone. We all know how important it is to have an offer near us. The smaller places of study often have good search, they can change quickly, the students thrive better, and a high proportion complete and are recruited early locally. When places of study are being depleted and laid down, I believe it is headless centralisation, where students, communities and local professionals need to go along with the so-called efficiency measures of the government. Here the government must take the signals seriously, meet the institutions and have dialogue on the consequences of mergers and increased claims. I ask directly: what will the Council of State do to ensure that training provision throughout Norway is not reduced? We cannot allow the training offer to be reduced where there is a great need – do not cut the water supply to the water wheel!
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e456	First I have to say thank you to the interpellant, the representative of Marit Arnstad, for addressing this topic. We are committed to ensuring good research, but also education throughout the country, that it is possible to be adult, have children and take professional training, and that higher education institutions also provide what is needed by the regions. When we discussed the structural reform in Stortinget in the previous period, it was a desire of all to improve the quality of education and research and to improve the division of labour. Nord University has many strengths and opportunities to deliver on a societal mission in both education and research, but they must then be able to do so. That was some of the reasons why the Workers' Party, when discussing the structural reform, called for ensuring access to education throughout the country and ensuring decentralised education throughout the country, and that professional training, which is the traditional mission of the universities, should be strengthened. We proposed, among other things: strengthening the role of the UH sector in regional development, but it was downgraded. It must be fully possible to have good professional training and decentralised structure even if the label of the institution is ‘university’ and not ‘high school’. The government has chosen its line, and when I have read the media releases in the last few days, and when I hear the debate here in the hall today, there is talk of what signals are sent out. The signals sent out from the government are, to put it mildly, confusing. If you read the letter of assignment to Nord universitet from December 2018 – a letter of assignment is used as a guide to the institutions – the government gives a clear mission to Nord universitet to look at the structure. At the same time, they have not given increased financial space to Nord University, not enough scholarship holders and not enough places to study. It has been proposed by the Workers' Party — both study places, to ensure that you meet the needs of teachers and nurses, and that you train people in ICT, and fellow students, to ensure that Nord University is better able to meet the requirements that are in order to be a university. Now we're in the situation that the government is actually talking out of both mouths at the same time. On the one hand, the Government of the letter of allocation asks that its structure – structural changes – be looked at by the summer of 2019. At the latest today, the Prime Minister has said – referred to in Namdalsavisa – that she and the government should not instruct the government in the governance model we have today. The university is also required to succeed in the requirements of being a university. That is why I am stunning the signals that are coming now, and that suddenly a letter has been sent, after all these other signals have arrived, where a so-called signal is given to take account of the regions. It's not a clear signal. It is not good governance – it is politically adapted communication. When Councillor Nybø here today says that what came from the board was a bit too one-sided, or when the representative Gudmundsen, from the Right, says that what comes from the board is disappointing, the message is back that the government gets what they asked for. The government gets what they asked for in the letter of assignment. One thing is to mention the structure. It is quite natural that Nord University, with nine study places, looks at how they can have a structure that is best suited to the needs and future, but if you read through the letter of assignment, you can see that there is no government emphasis on what they are now focusing on. There is no mention in the letter of assignment of strong, decentralised education, despite the lack of nurses and teachers in these regions. No emphasis has been placed on the key role of Nord University or other institutions in providing continuing training, for example: as part of the reform of competences, but it is very clear about the need for structural changes. You can be as surprised or disappointed as you want, but now the government gets what the government has asked for. It's really time to ask for a clarification. If the government has new signals coming after December 2018, they must clearly state which of these signals they believe the board of Nord University should follow, and not put the board of this institution in a completely impossible situation. Will the government or state council Nybø review the board of directors of Nord universitet if they reach the same result as was presented by the principal? It would be interesting to know. If the government on the other hand intended not to do so, they would have given a different assignment in the letter of assignment and provided economic space, just to ensure the decentralised education that is needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e475	I would like to thank you for an interesting round. Norway is a country with only 5 million inhabitants, and I would like to see more differentiation in higher education, that someone had been allowed to be internationally directed, while others were to carry out the regional mission without the quality of the two groupings being set up against each other. Instead, we are now in a situation where everyone is becoming more and more alike, and where those who are left of colleges, are gradually applying to become universities, they are also. The room we've given the universities to solve the regional assignment is incredibly narrow because the counting edges are completely the same, and they're not prioritizing the regional assignment, they're largely just publishing, doctoral degrees and first-choice applicants. There are targets that in themselves can be centralising in the case of regional higher education institutions. In addition, the new universities almost give no time or power to change. It also makes them vulnerable, but it does not mean that they are of poor quality — but it makes them vulnerable. And that's what I miss from the government parties: maritime criticism of why one stands there in today's situation, because there are some things that promote the development we now see, and the proposals that come from the board of directors of North University. The centre party believes that since each higher education institution was established by a decision to enlarge, they should not be laid down by a board once they have become places of study. We should also take political responsibility for discussing whether they should be maintained. The representative Sandberg mentioned the Nesna and the Sandness Lake, but we know that Namsos gets shaved if this is carried out, and Steinkjer gets destroyed as a place of study, sail if they are initially only to be jeopardized, according to the board. It is a reality that the government has gone up and hoped that the sector will solve these challenges. If the NTNU had said no four years ago – after all, it became yes with one voice’s overweight in the board – we would not have received these restructurings that we have now received. It was pure chance, one can actually say. If Nord University now gets a clear signal from the government to centralize study places, it will trigger further centralisation within the sector, and it will be the government's responsibility. As for the quotes from Trine Skei Grande, they were from Tronder-Avisa on May 3. I recommend the State Council to read that interview – it was very strong and clear. And then I notice that the representative Gudmundsen says that the board's attitude is disappointing, and Nybø says that they have put too much emphasis on one aspect. It remains to be seen whether the Right Party, the Left Party and the Advance Party mean anything about it, or whether this just becomes a word, and they will at the end of June come to their hands over the decisions the board of Nord University will take.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e488	I would also like to start by saying thank you for the debate. I want to solve some things that I think it's a little bit messed up with. First of all, what's happened now is that the principal has submitted a report. So it's not the board's report, it's the principal who has submitted a report that the board has now sent out at the hearing, with some additional orders. Then, after the hearing, the Vice-Chancellor will make a new appointment for the Board to decide on at the end of June. So the board has not yet taken a decision on this matter and has not taken a position on the content of the report. It's now out at the hearing. With regard to the economic development of North University, there has been no poor development during this government. They've had a real growth of 6.1 pst. from 2015 to today. If we compare them to what they got from the Stoltenberg government, they're going to be pretty good. The Stoltenberg administration was given 391 study places and 17 recruitment positions. 105 study places and 66 recruitment posts have arrived from the Solberg Government. They have received a significant share of SPS funds. It's not the cash situation they're in now, which is the challenge for North University; they have a lot of reserves, but it's challenges at North University. It's very good to see, too. Fortunately, things are going in the right direction, but it's a challenge for North University when we see that they can't be employed in the recruitment positions they've got in MNT, i.e. math, technology and science. Then it's not just Nord University that has a challenge, it's the region that they deliver to, that has a challenge. The same is true of teacher training. They have good teacher training at North University, but it is a challenge when we see that there are not enough teachers in Northland. That's also why the government has added some extra incentives for the three northernmost states. Finally, I would like to say that if we look at the University of Tromsø and what happened in the merger with Finnmark, I would say that Finnmark has come out very well there. They are able, even though there are large geographical areas, to deliver good quality education. There is a lot of development on UiT in Finnland, and one example is nurse training. When the government put in 20 additional seats, UiT at 10, offered decentralised education in Alta and got over 200 applicants. They do well at UiT, and I have the same goals and the same desires for North University, that they should manage to rise, because it needs the region, it needs Northland, and it needs Trondelag.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e497	That is when the debate is on case No. 1 over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e515	The most important thing to ask ourselves today is what we want study associations to be. The government is considering changing the scheme, and then we have to discuss how it should be. The study federations are still facing change. Recently, they have faced demanding processes such as meeting the requirements of the new Data Protection Regulation, GDPR, among others. through new procedures for the submission and processing of attendance lists. This affects all activity. Furthermore, they have had to face processes such as greater demands on quality and supply by participants and a greater diversity of participants. In addition, the government’s process is now coming where nothing is certain for the future, including extensive revisions of both BDO and Competence Norway. There are therefore many questions now: How will study work be funded in the future? How is it to be organized? How is the course to be completed? The Adult Education Association as an umbrella organisation is working heroically to keep track of the process, possible outcomes and recordings from grassroots and their members. On 5 November last year, the Ministry of Knowledge held a meeting where those affected by any changes were present. There was a clear picture of both the level and the number of study associations. The most important thing in common is the strong desire to engage in training and development. We see knowledge both as a goal in itself and as a tool to achieve greater goals such as having good societies and successful businesses, carrying on the cultural heritage and developing ourselves as individuals and communities. The background for today's discussion is, among other things, the adult training law, which is clear as regards the overall objectives of adult training and the training activity of study associations. In the budget configuration of the Education and Research Committee for the current financial year, the Committee stresses the importance of the work of study organisations and non-governmental organisations to ensure that adults have access to good, flexible and user-adapted training outside the formal education system – not to forget how they also reach youth. This is timely and relevant, inter alia. for the Committee of Competences of the Government. Their interim report, dated 1 February of this year, draws up, among other things: the following challenges: Too many leave primary school with poor skills and low skills. There are too many people who do not complete secondary education and who do not achieve a stable relationship with the labour market. Technological and social development requires the development and renewal of competences. Many workers take too little part in training activities in the workplace and continuing training. Increasing life expectancy means that more people have to contribute more to the labour market in order to finance the welfare state. It increases the need to fill skills for all workers, regardless of age. And finally, cross-border mobility gives uncertainty about future access to competences. In my ears, this sounds like a major problem, where we need more solutions, more channels to build skills, and everyone who wants to disseminate knowledge is given the opportunity to contribute. The Adult Education Act is the superstructure that defines and limits but also extends and extends the purpose of study work. I quote: ‘The aim of this Act is to promote lifelong learning by facilitating organised learning activities alongside the formal education system. The law shall contribute to the motivation and access to knowledge and competence of all, thus promoting the development of individuals and meeting the needs of society and the labour market.» Keywords are lifelong learning, access to knowledge and competence for all, and not least motivation. The law states that the approval of the Student Union and its objectives must be ‘democratic building’, as well as ‘contribute to maintaining and strengthening democracy and establishing a basis for sustainable development by engaging and developing active citizens’. This is an ambitious goal. Among these, it is important to bring forward policy study associations, which are mentioned in their own regulations. Here, only the Left Party and the Center Party are left with independent study associations. None of them would have existed if it wasn't for the prescription. When the Left was out of the Storting, the study association was part of the continuity of their organization. This is a democratic dimension we must not forget. The changes the Ministry of Knowledge is looking at for the study associations are many, and I mention among other things.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t Division between the Ministry of Knowledge and the Ministry of Culture regionalisation Amended framework for minimum requirements for participants replacing training hours with participant hours the requirement for a course to have a teacher; increased basic grant and amended step model defining administration clearer guidance for the use of the training grant modified reporting requirements Qualitative reports the winding-up of special arrangements for political study associations; The most important thing is that there is a connection with social tasks and laws, and we have understood it so that the ministry concludes in its work during the spring. A continuous lack of work, as we in the Centre Party see it, is that there have been no assessments of the consequences of the various measures and changes. I also think there is reason to ask what the government wants to achieve with the various proposals. Information flows in society are changing, and there is a growing need for serious channels for information and professional replenishment. More people need to access low-threshold schooling to participate, which is present where people are, and adapted to the individual. Study work is a combination of filling skills in formal forms while we are aware that knowledge transfer between people is valuable. How the government follows up Storting's commitment to study associations, and the Council's thoughts on the student associations' contribution to empowerment will be interesting to hear more about now. In general, study associations are important tools both for the inclusion of individuals at risk of falling into working and social life and for the inclusion of new citizens. Study-linked culture and tradition have been drawn as a good example, with a knitting course in Wågå. Language training and social understanding under the direction of the Christian Student Union are in addition to the regular training offered to new nationals. People's University helps you take master's letters all over the country. And these were just a few examples. What the future will bring, we don't know. But we can make up an opinion about what study work should be. In my submitted interview, I ask: How does the government follow up on the position – and commitment – of the Student Union, as the Education and Research Committee presented for the current year? And how does the Council of State feel that the study federations contribute to empowerment?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e628	Let me first thank the representative Knutsdatter Strand for a good and important interpellation. It is clear that the representative has a great commitment to the study associations, and that is good. I'm going to try to communicate some of the government's assessments of the role of study associations and the contribution to empowerment in society. As the representative also referred to in his statement, several assessments are now being carried out. These aren't finally concluded, and that means there are some issues that I can't get into right yet. The study federations have extensive and extensive experience in providing training in culture, traditions, democracy and public information. But they also offer adult training in a more traditional sense. They have been important contributors to training for all years outside the formal education system. I want to recognise the capacity of study associations to develop and adapt to both the training needs of adults and the challenges we face in society. Through the study associations, cultural heritage and traditions become available, interest is aroused, and important knowledge is passed on to new generations. I believe that we should maintain volunteering as an alternative and complementary training area for lifelong learning. Therefore, it is important to ensure a continued good study organisation. With regard to the concrete contribution of study associations to the enhancement of competences, I would like to remind you of the clear attitude of the Education and Research Committee towards the voluntary sector. The Committee has expressed over many years that voluntary activity itself knows best how to contribute to society. It has been the Committee's position that study associations must organise training as they deem most appropriate. The study organisation shall be simple and unbureaucratic. It is a point for the government not to require extensive reporting on the achievement of the objectives of voluntary sector organisations. Therefore, we do not receive detailed information on the qualitative contribution of study associations to empowerment. And so it should be. Nevertheless, I believe that the high demand for a course in the direction of the study associations testifies that their contributions are relevant. Each year, around 45 000 courses are organised with about half a million participants under the direction of study associations and their membership organisations. The training shall be informal and have a low participation threshold. The Adult Training Act shall lead to motivation and access to knowledge and competence for all. In this way, the study federations contribute to the development of individuals and to meeting the needs of society and the labour market. The country’s contribution is to reduce the training costs for the individual. This is how the state and the willingness to contribute to lifelong learning and to motivate individuals to increase their own competences. The study federations also play a central role in public education and in the democratic training of non-governmental organisations. In particular, the provision of training and preservation for, for example: cultural heritage, traditions and old crafts, important – from choirs and corps to Norwegian training for immigrants, from training in digital and basic skills to training in the preservation of Sami cultural heritage, and from organisational and management disciplines to old craft traditions. Through such activities, the population is taught to participate in the community. This is a prerequisite for a functioning democracy. There is wide variation in levels and content, and thus also in the provision of training from study associations to study associations. Some study associations have a clear profile and commitment in the field of education and competence policy. Some study associations offer a wide range of courses such as: include courses aimed at the labour market and workers in need of training. The offer includes continuing training courses within a number of professionals. Some have training courses with a wide range of courses and subject content and a long experience as training students in the workplace. Some also provide training in areas of competence policy, such as basic skills, Norwegian training and vocational training. There are also study associations that offer courses within the Competence plus scheme. In other words, the study associations have good assumptions and opportunities to contribute to lifelong learning. Their contribution may be by countering exclusion and motivating lifelong learning and participation in society, but it may also be by inspiring and helping individuals towards more knowledge in the form of formal training or education. The study associations themselves know best how to contribute. The government is implementing the competence reform Learn Lifelong. The aim of the competence reform is that no one should go out to date. The target group is businesses and workers who need more competence as a result of digitisation and other requirements for migration. Competence reform is about ensuring that those in work have the skills they need to be able to handle new tasks and maintain their links with the labour market. The government believes that the study federations could have a place in the reform of competences. Like the specialised schools, vocational training, the university and higher education sectors and the private sector, volunteering could play a role in the reform of competences. The study federations themselves should have a discussion about how they can meet the needs of society, what place they should have and how they can contribute to the reform of competences. The study federations have extensive experience as training providers, broad competences and a well-developed network of enterprises — in all parts of the country. They thus have good conditions to contribute to empowerment — both for individuals and for society. I believe that the study federations have an important role to play today and in the future. The study federations can make a positive contribution to meeting several of the societal challenges we face. They provide training in arenas and premises other than traditional education and thus contribute to the competence of the population in a slightly different way from that of the education system. Through their traditions and informal approaches to training, study associations have the potential and unique ability to motivate adults for lifelong learning. However, I would like to stress that the study federations must continue to develop to be relevant and to contribute to increasing individual competence. The government is committed to maintaining a predictable framework for study associations and to simplifying the requirements of volunteering. I believe that through their legal anchoring, the study federations have the predictability that they need in order to contribute to empowerment in different ways in society. As a result, they also have good opportunities to further develop within their broad mandate and societal mission.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e662	It's good to hear that we can agree on the value of volunteering, and I'm glad that the Council of State mentions the study federations in such positive order. It's very interesting to hear that for the different problems of change, it's not necessarily now being concluded. Then I hope the Council of State will be able to explain what we'll know during the spring, if necessary what the study federations still have to do, what we can expect, and what kind of changes they might be in. Here it's just volunteering, it's people who set up in their own spare time, and then we have to respect that they also need predictability in their everyday lives. Furthermore, it is interesting that the Council of State is so clear in the point that the study federations themselves know best how to solve their challenges and also that the reform of competence will include the study federations. We're happy about that. We're taking the signals with us, and we're going to report back that the state gets a lot more for the money than we can ever measure and know, in the investments made in the studios. I believe that variation in study associations is definitely not a bad one, but a good one, which also reflects the need and diversity of the population out there. I want us to take a big look at it, and build on the opportunities that lie in the organisations that have been established in the various study associations. Working life requires more continuous filling, and several of the country's leading enterprises encourage their employees to fill weekly or monthly professional fillings. Changes in public and society in general also mean that we as citizens need to update ourselves, something like updating our technological tools and digital tools. There is, of course, room for change in the landscape of study associations, but changes cannot weaken the opportunities of voluntary and self-employed organisations to train and enhance their skills. This is in many ways the lifeblood of our society, and we're not going to take for granted good competence in organization. It also benefits from being a representative of the Stortinget or in everyday life. We need serious channels for information and professional replenishment. Study associations are a moderator of current replenishment, and a huge amount of material and learning arrangements are being produced that bring together young people, all communities and people with different assumptions and experiences. Open meetings are popular. There, people are given the opportunity to pick up and make recordings, and it is mobilized for knowledge. I believe that the offer we have about learning – throughout life, throughout the country, near people – should be as varied as people are. Study associations must be part of that mix. So the question remains: what does Stortinget want to be a study association? I agree that we need to take up the challenge and the opportunity to form study associations for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e683	I am also pleased that there is a broad political consensus on the objectives of the study federations, and not least the recognition of the important role played by the study federations and which they continue to play, both to preserve important parts of our cultural heritage, to help maintain a committed democracy and to contribute to both Norwegian training and more formal qualification. It's good that there's a broad consensus on that. At the same time, it is important to stress that the study federations should be something other than the formal education system. They have to be a part of volunteering. That is where we stand in a discussion where, on the one hand, we point out and underline that the study associations are something other than the formal one, while on the other hand it is a wish that the study federations also play a role in the reform of competences. That's where I'm concerned about also challenging the study associations back, about the role they themselves think they can play in the competence reform. Then it is absolutely right that we have dialogue with the study associations, and have a discussion about how to organise them for the future, related to the grant scheme. It's like the government always asks the question whether we can get better solutions by decentralizing. There's a discussion. The centre party has joined it as a study association and has not been so strongly attached to the decentralisation of the study associations. There I think we have to ask the questions: Is it getting better, or is it getting worse? Do we make sure that there is less bureaucracy or more bureaucracy? When we get the answer to those questions, we'll also be ready to conclude. That's what Stortinget will get information about. Of course, if there are changes to the grant scheme, it will also be sent to general consultations before final conclusions are reached. I believe that in this area it is important that we have good dialogue, get good investigations, before drawing final conclusions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e694	I want to begin by thanking the inter-pellant for raising the profile of the role of study associations in raising the population's skills. The main purpose of the study groups is training for adults. They are very important elements of the organised learning activity that take place alongside the formal education system. We in the Workers' Party also have high expectations for the study federations and the role they can play in the future, and will listen to their views on what they can contribute to the overall empowerment needed in the population. Let me start with something very basic: the main prerequisite that more people in Norway can get to work and stay at work and enjoy a good job is that workers have the right skills, and an extraordinary effort is needed to build the necessary skills across the whole population. Without such an effort, there is a high risk that the technological changes currently underway will push entire occupational groups out of work and that both unemployment and pay differentials can increase. However – and that is important – competence also has an expanded purpose, namely to provide a basis for good life, to be included and function well in a community, for good community. So we don't have to go into the trap that we're turning competence policy into just about giving people a job. It's also about what we're going to do when we don't work. The Labour Party believes that there is no contradiction to this, but one can get the impression of it when the right-wing government has repeatedly cut in volunteering, in grants to study associations and to higher education institutions, to mention something. We have a broad concept of competence in the Workers' Party. In our party programme, we are very clear that we have ambitions for the study associations when we point out that adult training organisations have a central role to play in providing adult qualifications throughout their lives. The study federations contribute to ensuring access to learning to all and are an arena that strengthens organised employment and civil society. My next point is that the working life that we know is changing, and that automation and digitisation are fundamentally changing the working life. It requires that we work in other ways than before. This is – as we have said before – good news for Norway’s competitiveness because there are few countries that have as competent a workforce as we have. Equal access to learning adapted to the individual's life situation is essential to master and succeed in meeting the challenges we face and are in the middle of. At the same time, it means that more people have to master the new technology. This means that skills become more and more a kind of fresh product, and that more people have to change jobs more often. And – it is also important – it reinforces the political responsibility that everyone is also given the opportunity to learn and update their skills. For us in the Workers' Party, the answer to this is that lifelong learning must be a very central part of the Norwegian model, so that it is not only the individual worker who is in this transition and takes responsibility, but also the employers and the state do so. The trend is towards less clear distinctions between learning by educational institutions and learning in the labour market, between initial and continuing education. Our focus on knowledge and skills is on working life. It shall provide ordinary workers with appropriate skills in response to new needs in the workplace and industry. Governments say that volunteering and adult education have a value. We agree with him on that, but it must also be valued; volunteering must be cultivated, and that must also be adult training. The Labour Party proposed two million. SEK to the association's association of students, Vofo, in our budget for 2019. We see that Vofo carries out significant coordination tasks between the study federations and the public and makes the non-profit sector a clearer contributor to its competence policy, both nationally and regionally. In a possible new grant scheme, we in the Workers' Party believe it is important that the State also assumes its responsibilities, by facilitating and supporting under and, secondly, providing predictable financial support. Our broad competence reform is intended to give individuals the right to continuing training and to enhance their skills. A successful skills reform is about whole and cooperation between the social partners, different courses and education providers, with Nav, Vofo and other actors. We want to stimulate the knowledge institutions to contribute more to continuing education and training, and we will also include adult education to achieve this. We believe that strengthening the study associations will increase competence in general.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e717	Now that the government has thrown into the air all the balls that regulate student associations, it's going to be exciting to see the swallowing and where it all ends. I miss a clearer answer to when several of the issues get settled, but I am glad to hear that there are clear hearings with room for recording. The aim of local work believes the Centre Party is well maintained today and initiatives to strengthen this further believe we are positive. Ideologically, of course, we're moving power and resources closer to people, but the PLC, as an example, has 10,000 study hours and only two employees who can't be distributed over the counties. As surely as the world changes, student unions need to change. So the central section sees it, it's the ones with the shoe on it, which knows best where it's pressing. In other words, student associations should be involved to a large extent in deciding what contributes to more activity, more empowerment and development to the best of people. It is then important to recognise that a lot is going well in the study associations today. The Committee of Competences, the Adult Education Act and all the thousands of study hours registered each year provide the basis for many opportunities. What the future will bring, we don't know, but we can be sure and agree that study associations are an important part of it. The Education and Research Committee recognises informal training and we should not underestimate how this contributes to inclusion and empowerment. The question in the interpellation was how the government follows up the Committee's position and commitment to study associations, and how the Council of State believes the study federations contribute to empowerment. The answer has been useful. The connection to the formal education system varies from student union to student union, and that is what I think it should be. The needs of society can not only be a responsibility and a mandate for the formal training system, but also volunteering is part of the solution for building Norway further. I thank you for the debate and look forward to further work on the reform of competence announced by the government. We have great expectations for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e726	Once again, I would like to thank you for a good interpellation and a useful debate. I am pleased that this kind of debate is going on in Stortinget, and I am also happy to hear that the representative and the Central Party have great expectations for the government and the reforms we are working with. I also very much agree that the link between the study association and the formal education system will vary from study association to study association. I myself have had the pleasure of meeting several of the student associations on my integration tour, where I have seen how many work well with integration. They are totally dependent on the will to achieve a good integration policy, and they contribute to many arenas. One of the best things I've seen is the People's University in Asker, which has an important role in the introduction program. So it's absolutely right that the study federations stretch from public information to take care of culture and tradition to also contribute to e.g. the introduction programme and help to make more refugees a part of small and large communities, learn Norwegian well and get the opportunity to move forward. Just because we're dedicated to helping the study federations develop as well, we've thrown some balls into the air. If we hadn't, we'd have parked them a little bit on the side, but precisely because we see that the study associations interacting with community, interacting with civil society and interacting with the authorities can play an important role, we have to dare to ask some of the questions that we've done. Then, after an in-depth assessment, conclusions will be presented that will gradually become publicly known.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e737	The debate on substance is closed. 2 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e755	We all have both visible and invisible health – physical and mental health. It makes us whole people. The challenge with what doesn't seem to be is that it's hard to deal with and more difficult to prepare for. In recent decades, more and more young people have reported mental health disorders in studies. School is a major part of the lives of all young people. What happens at school means a great deal for children and young people with different backgrounds, different assumptions and different prospects to get the best possible tools in the toolbox to build their future. In research, the school situation appears to be one of the main causes of stress-related health problems. The experience of stress and pressure is both about a sustained performance pressure, about the experience of never getting rid of demands, and about concerns about future educational and career opportunities. Children must still have the opportunity to be a child, and young people must be young. There is plenty of time for work pressure and challenges throughout life – should we not first teach the emerging generations what values life and love are? Motivation is extremely important for students to feel good and susceptible to learning. I have learned a lot about this myself through the teacher training I have taken. Motivation can come both from the inside and from the outside. A student who has internal motivation, works because she or he thinks it is challenging, interesting or satisfying. The external motivation comes from feedback and rewards. Negative feedback over a long period of time may be in students' self-esteem. Medically, for younger and younger children, stress has become a nervous system and has evolved from being psychic to becoming physical distresses. Lack of motivation and mental problems are the main reasons why young people do not complete secondary education. In a study from the University of Southeast Norway, seven out of ten asked that they experience schoolwork as stressful, and three out of ten were so anxious that it affects sleep quality. Many feel powerlessness when the number of samples and submissions accumulate. Teachers also report time pressure and too many requirements to meet in a short time. There'll always be something exciting and sometimes stressful to go to school, that's not to avoid. That's not what this is about either. We therefore need to distinguish between short-term stress that sharpens and mobilises for action, and the pressure and persistent stress that breaks down self-esteem and causes both physical and mental distress. When teachers also experience pressure and stress to get students through all the curriculum goals and documentation requirements, what is going to be governing more than what is really learning promotion. There's a lot of challenges in school we'd like to do something about. When curricula and the organisation of everyday school life changes, we need to look at the assessments we make and at the national quality assessment system. Assessment is a major part of everyday school life, and it is important that tests do the students good. Tests will show what the students can, not what they can't. In addition, the absence limit has given students, teachers and set challenges. We have to make sure that the goal of learning and mastering does not come under the shadow of the desire to ensure that students participate in education. The centre party was for the absence limit, but we also have to take self-criticism when we see that parts of the absence limit have not functioned according to purpose, and that others fall away. The contact teachers have enormous responsibilities towards the students and should also have equivalent powers. Measures to improve the daily lives of students must be taken at many levels, including in municipalities. A large proportion of municipalities reported mental health as one of the main public health challenges they face. The study of students’ health and well-being from 2018 also shows that the number of students with mental health problems is too many. In the previous public health report that the government presented, Mental Health suggested that we need more openness and normalisation around mental disorders. The theme had its own chapter. In the recent public health report, mental health and the learning environment in schools do not have the same focus. As a society, we still have to work to master mental challenges. There are many other praises in the communication on addressing health challenges, and the question will be whether we look at them again in practical measures. The National Centre for Writing Training and Writing Research in Trondheim raised the challenge with assessment methods when the Education and Research Committee visited them in January. We have to ask ourselves, do the tests show what the students actually can do? Are the Tests Learning Promoting? Too often the answer is no. The centre party requires action. The question is what initiatives the Council of State will take to change the forms of assessment, the scope of tests and their organisation in order to reduce the adverse health effects of school pressure.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e787	The representative points to an important theme. In general, Norwegian youth thrives both at home and at school. Most people experience a high degree of mastering throughout school. However, it is clear that we have a serious challenge related to the mental health of young people. School-related stress and mental health disorders may have negative consequences for students both inside and outside school. Studies show that students’ experience of school-related stress has increased since the 1990s and up to the present day. In other words, it started before the PISA, the Knowledge Lift and national tests. It is therefore important to look at explanatory factors both within and outside school. NOVA’s report Youth data 2018 shows that the proportion of mental disorders reported in juveniles has increased in recent years. These are particularly typical symptoms of stress reported by young people. Another negative trend from the same report is signs of less future-optimism and lower school well-being. However, the student survey does not show that students are in a worse state of health at school. The research does not give a clear answer as to why we see this increase in mental distress. The causes of development are complex and need to be seen in the context of general changes and flows in society. But it's not a sleeping cushion that we don't know exactly why. We must take this seriously and act – even in school. In addition to the study referred to by the representative on school stress and pressure, young data also say something about this in 2018. Six out of ten girls and three out of ten boys say they are often or very often stressed by schoolwork. We have to remember that most people deal with stress well, but 6 pst. by the boys and 16 pst. of the girls report that they have had trouble coping with the pressure. We have to take that seriously. In 2017, the Ministry of Knowledge ordered a systematic knowledge overview of reasons for school stress from the Knowledge Centre for Education. The report suggests that stress at school may be due to an perceived imbalance between demands and expectations on the one hand and support from the school on the other. Schools can do a lot to counteract negative stress. Different education that engages and positive challenges is important. A socially good learning environment where students feel safe, also counteracts stress. All those working with children and young people should have a conscious view of how demands and expectations are communicated. Schools must also ensure a level playing field and help students to sort and prioritise. These are important aspects of a learning environment that can help to prevent the development of a stress culture in school or in individual students. With regard to the overall scope of tests and tests, teachers and school leaders are largely determined. On the country side, the number of tests imposed and tests is very limited. Students spend only 15 hours on compulsory national tests and screening tests during their 13 years in school. These tests and tests have been selected because they provide both teachers and school authorities with important information on the learning of students — we should not have tests for the sake of tests. In addition to this, it is largely up to teachers to decide how to obtain information about learners. The teacher's freedom of method is an important principle in school. Detailed guidance or limitations on the teacher’s assessment practices would be unwise. Teachers need room to exercise their professional judgement. Our role as national authority will therefore be to support schools and teachers to conduct sensible assessment practices. In addition, we have to give the students who need it, help and support to deal with the pressure. Through the innovation, we are now taking several steps to achieve this. In the new overall part of the curriculum, we stress that the need for information on learners needs to be balanced against the undesirable consequences of different assessment situations. Each syllabus shall have a subject specific mention of assessment in the subject. This hope we will help to support the assessment work of the teachers. The content of the school is also affected by the renewal of the profession. Public health and lifelong learning shall be one of three important interdisciplinary themes. The aim is to provide students with competences to promote good mental and physical health. Students shall learn to cope with access and adversity and personal and practical challenges. In addition, the government is placing mental health through, among other things, increased appropriations for psychologists in municipalities and health and school health services. From 2013 to 2017, there were 544 health professionals in the school health service. In total, this will provide students with better tools to deal with negative stress. It will also help to help and support those who need it. The government has great ambitions for Norwegian school. We want a school where everyone experiences mastering and learning, no matter what the assumptions or the background. We want to implement as much as possible, to exploit the potential of those implementing it, and to ensure that students are well prepared for the future. High ambitions can also lead to stress. It is important that students also learn to cope with stress. It's not morbid or unnatural to know stress in between, stress can help us focus and do our best. But we have to make sure that it does not slip into long - term negative stress. It can have serious consequences. That's why it's good that we talk about this topic. Finally, I would like to say that both the Student Survey and the Young Data 2018 show that the majority of Norwegian students are well-off in school. In addition, we have seen positive developments in the completion of higher education. It is therefore not correct when the representative in his post says that the absence limit has led to more people falling from there. Rather, on the contrary, we see that absence has fallen sharply and that more people complete and survive. What is important is that we look for the reason why some students have high levels of absence in high school, and also in high school. We know that there are some students who have very high levels of absence in high school, and if you have very high levels of absence in high school, it will quickly lead to high levels of absence in high school and more likely not to be able to complete high school. I am therefore concerned that we should look at the causes, and that we should focus more on early work, both in kindergarten and early in high school – also early work in the sense that when problems arise, you should not wait and see, you should not think that it passes. It's important that the school acts. This applies to both secondary and secondary education. I have never met high school students who have said that they got too much early effort, or that their problems were discovered too early. But I've met a lot of students, both in high school and in high school, who tell us how the problems got bigger. That's why it's important that we build a team around the students, but also that we have tools, like screening tests, to discover students who have challenges in the field, so that they can get the help and support they need.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e833	I would like to thank the Council of State for its input, but I would also like to comment that although mental challenges were revealed before PISA and before national tests, it has its natural relationship with monitoring and other factors in society. The Council of State's point of not giving priority to testing for the purposes of the tests, we can all agree, but at the same time the government also acknowledges that there is a high time pressure in school and that teachers face many dilemmas as to what they should prioritise in order to promote the learning of students. There is no doubt that when assessments and national tests are focused so much on national issues, this becomes an objective in itself rather than prioritizing the individual student and the adapted training we all want more. When it comes to the relationship with new curricula, there is no doubt that consideration for learning needs to be focused on the next round. Now we must first also comment that lifelong learning, as one of the multidisciplinary elements, has taken out the directorate, upon request from the department. Now there are several in the trade unions who feel run over, after long processes and good professional work, who are now being set aside. As the Council of State, I am also concerned with the latest Youth Data Survey, but there I would point out that we see a trend towards lower school well-being and an increase in mental health disorders. The students express that the sum of samples leads to increased pressure, in addition to what is naturally expected in a trial situation. Seven out of ten people experience schoolwork as stressful, and the students feel powerless when the test press gets too big. To use the Minister of Health's own words: ‘The day’s students meet a number of demands and expectations. It is about expectations from school, teachers, parents and society, but also about expectations for individual students.’ And on the other hand, ‘Every person working with children and young people should have a conscious view of how demands and expectations are communicated. It is important to avoid developing a stress culture at school.’ As the Council of State said, the Knowledge Centre for Education points out that stress in school is the result of students experiencing an imbalance between demands and support. Schools can do a lot to provide students with the support they need to combat negative stress, but they too are faced with high demands, without necessarily meeting expectations of school support. Different education that engages, and positive challenges need to be addressed between assessments. We have to put all the cloths on to prevent stress. Does the Council of State see the challenge of time pressure in school, and will the government take action to reduce the overall scope of tests and tests that teachers and students face?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e854	There is no doubt that safe children who thrive at school will also learn more. That's why it's important that we have a lot of attention on a good learning environment, and that the students who are struggling get help at an early stage. We're now working a lot on the subject of trade renewal, and as I pointed out in my article, lifelong learning is going to be one of three cross-cutting topics in the renewed curriculum, but it's not right that there are some people who have overrun the curriculum groups. On the contrary, I have followed up what Stortinget has been dealing with, namely that the cross-cutting issues should only be addressed where relevant. That means that the review we've had, and the dialogue we've had with the Education Directorate, has been about fulfilling what's been the big deal's important premise for trade renewal. It is also true that there has been a challenge that curricula have been flooded with skills objectives. So what we're now working on is making sure that there's more room for the teacher to be a teacher and more time for the student to experience depth learning. This means that we must make important priorities and ensure that there are not too many skills objectives in the new curricula. So far, I've experienced very few suggestions about what's going on, but I get a lot of suggestions about what's going on in school. We have set up an examination group that looks at both the knowledge base, assesses the input from the curriculum groups, looks at the importance of professional innovation and technological development for examination schemes, and proposes any changes. In addition, they may also propose new forms of examination themselves, but within some important frameworks. The government believes that both the examination characteristics and the position character are an important part of the quality assessment system, but, of course, the examination forms must also be adapted to the innovation and technological development we are in. Finally, I mean what I said in my first post, namely that samples are not a target in themselves, but both national samples and screening samples are important. After all, the purpose of the screening tests is to discover students who are hanging after, who have not learned to read, write and calculate. Then it is important that they are discovered early, and that they get early help. National tests are also important tools, so that we can avoid some schools being hung behind. We need to have transparency about the results of the school. The school is so important that we have to make sure to lift those schools that do not achieve good results.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e867	I would also like to thank the initiative for this interpellation. It is an important and serious topic that has been discussed in this Chamber before. I would also like to thank both the Council of State and the interpellant for a good review of both numbers and statistics, so I'm not going to repeat it. It's a very serious topic, it's serious that more and more and not least younger students say they're struggling, they're stressed, and not least they're getting sick. I think we agree in this room that this is an important topic, but I believe that it also requires clearer political action, in addition to what the Council of State does in boasting of the trade renewal. The renewal is good, we're very much in agreement, but we also have to be careful that it doesn't become a rest cushion. I had rather low hopes and expectations in advance for the response of both the government and the state council, because we know that they are skeptical about doing something about the topic that is now being addressed. It is only to look back at the consideration of the proposal of trust reform in the School of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV, where several concrete proposals just mentioned this, but were voted down by the government parties, for example. the proposal ‘The government is asked to ensure that the overall level of monitoring, measurement, reporting and documentation requirements at national and local level is reduced.’ So it was against the government parties, and one voted against the proposal that one should review today's examination system in connection with the renewal of the profession, which, in our opinion, did not apply to the examination group which has now been set up, but that one should look at it more in parallel. We believe that the exam is governing how one does things in school, and that the order in which the council chooses to do it – first take the innovation, then review of the examination system – is the wrong order. Fortunately, we also have support from the Federation of Education and the other parties. As I said, I had not so much hope of how the government would respond, because all of these proposals voted against. But what I see as a little curious about is what was the alternative of the government parties in the debate on trust reform. The government parties’ proposals when and their response in the debate were – and one agreed in Stortinget – that the municipalities themselves should review both the examination system and the scope of both measurements and reporting in the context of the innovation. I'm curious to hear if the Council of State can say anything about how he has followed up this particularly, and whether there is any status for the decision that the government parties and the majority did in that case. As I said, it's an important topic, so we'll continue to ask for action and be impatient.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e885	The criticism of the multidisciplinary themes of the new curricula is well described in Education News.no. Indeed, the educational plan groups would like to contribute, by achieving the objectives adopted by the Stortinget, and by making the adjustments that the Directorate has now made, if they were given the opportunity. Another point is that Scotland, for example, has not wanted national tests, precisely because they believe that it does not show what students actually can, nor does it reflect local variations. Rarely has it been so important with pointed elbows and being the best in the class of government character requirements and tests as they are now. When it's only collected in the first place, it's hard to feel good enough or included in the community. Students in the school class have it tougher than ever. Psychiatric and psychosomatic disorders are being detected in younger and younger children. Loneliness is more uncovered. Media has referred to it as a school failure. In addition, we have what can be called the failure of teachers, with a four-dimensional requirement for teacher training, the demand for skills with retroactive effect and the centralising standard of teachers. Teacher density is important throughout basic training. The drop-out in secondary school and the number not assessed in the subject, especially among boys in the professional field, are far too high. The Young Data Survey shows that more and more young people, both boys and girls, are struggling with school-related stress and undefinable mental and physical health disorders. Several qualified teachers with time to watch and follow up each individual youth are, in the view of the Centre Party, an important measure to ensure that all young people are provided with an equivalent and good training offer, irrespective of where they go to school or the assumptions and needs they have. In the case of several health professionals and psychologists, it is all right, but then the question is whether the students are given the opportunity to go to these professionals and have the conversation they sorely need, or whether the absence limit puts an end to it. Trust must be restored to the counties, municipalities, schools, teachers and individual students. We can't set demands, norms and thresholds we expect everyone to go over and through. Our ambitions must be cloudy for the well-being and development of the people of benefit. Then action and resources must follow – with a good portion of confidence. Today's discussion has been interesting, and I thank the Council of State for taking the issue seriously and providing measures that we can discuss further. I can't say that I'm satisfied, I can't say that we're in the goal, but I can say that we're in the right place. I thank those who participated.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e902	In my opinion, the interpellation raises such a serious and important issue that it is important that we neither exaggerate nor underestimate the challenges in school. There's a lot going in the right direction, and I think we should be happy about that. We're looking at the student survey that bullying goes down. The bullying goes down because many schools, teachers, school managers, students and school owners work well with prevention. We have hundreds of kindergartens and schools within competence building projects. That's what we see is good results, and I think we should be happy about that. We should also be glad that there are more people who complete and pass high school. It's important for the individual, for the possibility of getting into work or further education, and it's important for us as a society. At the same time, it is quite clear that the Young Data Survey and other studies show that there are challenges and that there are students who are struggling. Many people get toil throughout primary school without getting to grips with the challenges. For the autumn I present a big message called Early Effort and Inclusive Community. It's just going to be about how we can build teams around kids in kindergarten and in school. There should be a low threshold, you should get help at an early stage. Here we still have a job to do, we as a state, but also the municipalities and the schools. I travel all over Norway and bring out the good examples, and I see that there are many schools and kindergartens working well on these themes. Yesterday I was at Scarbøvik secondary school in Ålesund. It is a school that works well with inclusion, both with minority students and with students who work in the trades. Both students and teachers give positive feedback. At the same time, I believe that a major challenge in Norwegian school is the differences we see – differences due to the student’s background, which country parents come from, how long their parents have, or where the student lives. In other words, there are also some differences that are not caused by the student's own effort, talent or commitment, but by other factors. I think we have to be concerned about how the students can thrive and master the school, but we also have to be concerned about the differences. Then we need national tests and transparency, so that we can address the problems and challenges where they are.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e915	The debate on substance is then closed. 3 out of the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e931	At the request of the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that up to five rows of replies be given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e940	The accident with 'Helge Ingstad' has been and is a sad chapter in Norwegian defence history. Fortunately, life was not lost in the accident, and there is every reason to praise the rescuers and the defense for this and to rejoice that no one was seriously injured. The State's breakdown commission has been commissioned to investigate the incident until the collision between KNM Helge Ingstad and Sola TS occurred, how the accident developed until the herd was evacuated. At the same time, the police are investigating whether criminal offences have occurred. Two internal investigations are now being carried out in the Defense Department, where one looks at the incident and the cause of the accident. Defence equipment undergoes the rescue operation and technical aspect of the accident. It is important that this is done to prevent such events from happening again. It is also important to learn from the event. The rescue of the frigate has been a complex maritime operation, and the security of personnel has been of the highest priority. The rescue work was carried out by the Defence, in close cooperation with the DNV GL and the Coastal Agency. “Helge Ingstad” has now been raised and transported to Haakonsvern. The recovery work is in its final phase and is expected to be completed in the second quarter of 2019. In the same period, the total costs will also be clear. It's important, and it's expected that the Storting will be briefed on the outcome of this work in an appropriate way. The defense put away the job of closing the hull at KNM ‘Helge Ingstad’. The company that received the assignment will transfer that assignment to another company. In this work, offences have been detected against the Work Environment Act. The defense does not secure itself well enough against this. It is important that one complies with Norwegian law in such processes, of course, as in all other cases. It is the government that is to shape the mandate and give the mission of the review to be carried out. For my part, and for the Central Party, we will encourage the Minister of Defense to consider whether that too bit, how the mission was lost, and how it was handled, should be looked at more closely. There is a joint committee which proposes that an external review and an independent review of the rescue work be initiated. The final report shall be publicly available no later than six months after the rescue and cancellation work has been carried out. It will be an important work on a matter that has had and is very remarkable in the public change of words.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e957	We all recognize that the incident with the frigate "Helge Ingstad" was very serious. We're saying it's this kind of event that shouldn't happen, as it's called, but it happens anyway. When that happens, it's important that the reasons and what I'll call the circumstances of the event are mapped. It is essential that everything becomes public, well known. With a small reservation of what is called absolutely necessary secrecy in view of the security of the kingdom, I would again say from the pulpit of the Storting to the Council of State that it is of great importance that he contributes to the public awareness of the circumstances of the accident itself and to the good and proper disclosure of the facts to the Stortinget. As the rapporteur has explained, there is a unanimous attitude to be taken here today in relation to the rescue work itself. That is what we are dealing with in concrete terms. It is good and important that it is a unanimous attitude; it is necessary to deal with the type of national events that are currently being discussed. It is also good that the Council of State is behind this. It gives authority to those who are to deal with the matter through an independent review. It was of course necessary to lift the boat. But what assessments and preparations were made, the Storting must know, and the public must know. Such examination is also necessary because the cost of recovery is of course of great importance. The Committee confirms that this is an examination intended not to address the causes of the ship’s actual shipwreck but the ship’s safety and salvage. Like the rapporteur, I would like to point out a particular aspect, and it is the working conditions of those who are working on the recovery itself. There is information in the press, as the rapporteur also says, about long – and possibly completely irresponsible – periods of work for some of those involved in the rescue work. I assume that all the conditions relating to the working conditions of the rescue teams are included in the mandate and examined in a proper manner. I ask the Council of State to see that happens. I also refer you to the rapporteur's posts and agree with what she produced.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e974	As mentioned in previous articles, there was a very demanding maritime operation to be carried out. One thing is the operation itself, but before going into the operation, a series of simulations have to be carried out, risk analysis for the work to be done is necessary, so that one has thought through what to do and what might go wrong. I would especially remind the representative Kolberg that this was a vessel lying on a hillside hillside, with the danger of slipping down to the depths of the sea, with minimal possibilities of being mountained. It seems that the rescue operation has gone well, and we should be happy about it. It is also positive that a unanimous committee is behind the vote. But I have to say that I noticed that the Workers' Party was early out proposing a commission to look at this rescue work. The size should be careful with special use of commissions, and in this case there are two commissions who are going to look at the disaster itself. Now you get all the aspects of saving the frigate itself, and that's good. But again – this was a very demanding work under severe weather conditions. You must have all manner of respect and honor to the rescue teams that were involved in this operation. This was not easy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e983	I will not make a long speech, since there is agreement on this, and I too will commend the Council of State for the willingness to meet the Stortinge in order to get a study in line with what the proposers have asked for. I would just like to underline what the representatives Mr Navarsete and Mr Kolberg did, namely that what has emerged about working conditions should be included in the mandate. Since it is not mentioned in the comments, I will also underline it and encourage the Minister of Defence to comment on it in his statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e988	The accident with KNM “Helge Ingstad” was, as we all agree, a very dramatic and serious incident for all those involved and for the Defence as a whole. Rescue work has been a complex maritime operation, with the safety of personnel at the highest priority. The plans for the lifting and transport of the vessel were developed in close cooperation with both the Norwegian Veritas and the Coastal Administration. The feedback I have received so far is that the rescue work has done very well. The costs incurred have been reported on different occasions. Immediately after the accident, the marine defense received an additional 50 million. kr to carry out the emergency actions required. However, it was already clear that significantly greater expenditure was to be incurred in 2019. I have previously informed the Storting about the development of the costs of the rescue work. Expenditure is now estimated at 726 million. kr. However, this also includes some improvement of damage and work to save material up to now. This was a serious accident, which we have to learn as much from as possible. Both the accident and the rescue work are now being investigated by several parties. The State Transport Disaster Commission and the State Defence Disaster Commission investigate the course of events until the collision occurred and continue until the entire crew was evacuated. The police are investigating whether criminal offences have taken place. In parallel, two in-service surveys are ongoing. The defense investigates the course of events and the causal relationship to the accident. Defence equipment undergoes the rescue operation and technical aspects of the accident, focusing on providing the sector with knowledge and experience. I am sure that we will get good answers as a result of these different audits and investigations. The ship is now at the Naval Defence Main Base, Haacon Protection, and the rescue work is in its final and final phase. Defence equipment assesses the extent of damage to KNM ‘Helge Ingstad’ and will complete a report on this before the summer. In addition, there is work to preserve and conserve as much material and systems as possible. This work is likely to be completed during the second quarter of 2019. However, it is a resource-intensive work, involving central people, who will also need to be involved in an external and independent review. I am concerned with the greatest possible transparency about both the accident and the rescue and cancellation work. An external and independent review could contribute to further increasing knowledge of the rescue work. There are several important studies in progress that will give us good answers, and I am in favour of the proposal for an external and independent review of the rescue work. This could further contribute to important lessons after the rescue operation. Such a review should only be initiated after completion of the recovery and assessment of the level of injury and can therefore take place in the second half of 2019 at the earliest. In this way, we ensure that the most qualified are available for such an investigation. In order to ensure maximum transparency and publication, it should not include classified information and conditions under investigation and investigation by the accident commission and the police. In conclusion, I would like to maintain close contact with the proposers and the Committee, both in terms of mandate and also in order to ensure that we meet the requirement of independent scrutiny. So I want to discuss these with the Committee in advance of the work going on.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e1005	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e1010	Thank you to the Council of State for both a very constructive approach to the matter and the proposal, and also for coming back to the committee and having a dialogue on what he has just said. It's affordable. In the media, it has been written about the postponement of the mission associated with KNM Helge Ingstad, i.e. the repair of the hull. It has been claimed that what happened through the outsourcing has resulted in a failure to comply with the work environment law in a good enough way. So my question is, will the Council of State consider including that moment when he is going to formulate the mandate for this review? It may also be inserted as part of the mandate in a relatively simple way, either to confirm that something has not happened or to cancel what has occurred.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e1017	Yes, I think that's an important part of it. I hope that we will get an answer to exactly these specific things long before we get the mandate, because violations of laws and regulations will not happen, even under the auspices of the Defence. So we're going to go after that case and get clarity on what's happened. It may well be that it can be an important part of the mandate to see how in the kind of rescue operations where much has to be done quickly, we also ensure that we stay within that part. So that's what I'm going to assess before I come up with the mandate.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e1024	I thank you for your answer. I'm not going to raise the hall with more questions in this case, because here we are very few. I just want to thank the Council of State. We sometimes disagree very much about things, but I think it's good for the Storting and for the collaboration between big business and government that we can also have things where we can work well. This is such a matter, and I thought the Council of State should be commended for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e1032	I must be allowed to thank you warmly. I fully agree with the representative that the times we can work well, communicate well, both when we agree and disagree, then we are at our best.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e1037	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e1055	The introduction of protection obligations for both women and men in the defence has been a success. All of them, most of the girls are satisfied and feel included. There's nothing to suggest that today's defenses are worse than other arenas where youth participate, in terms of sexual harassment and assault. Grenades in the Armor Battalion in Brigade North, Hanne Konstad, tell of an inclusive defense. She says, "I have also not experienced being rebred because I have been a woman. On the contrary, we have been united against injustice and unculture. We are completely dependent on this to be able to do the job we are set to do." She goes on to tell us about assault as a social problem and not a challenge that defence alone faces. What separates the defense from very many other arenas where young people participate is the close relationship you have to each other. One lives together, eats together, is together on exercises and often in leisure time – far from home. It creates cohesion and companionship, but something negative happens between the soldiers, it can be felt as extra stressful to live and work so closely together. On 19 February 2019, Norway was presented with a report from an internal survey of 8 000 defenders and employees. The study would help to identify bullying and sexual harassment, done by colleagues or by superiors. The answers we received show that there were up to 160 people only in the last year who had experienced rape or attempted rape. 40 of these cases were raped, and 2 of the events have been reported to the police – i.e. only 2 of the events. This may indicate that there are not enough warning procedures and that there is a cultural failure around reporting serious cases in their own working life. The question then is about partnership and companionship, which is positive, also makes it a higher threshold for alerting and reporting. Some people might heave to be the one that destroys the good mood. An anonymous reporter to the NRK described how she was raped during her first duty, and felt that she was pressured by her superiors to report the matter to the police, so that they could do something about it. She says, ‘After the notification, my managers dismissed all liability because ‘it was then the police’s responsibility, and they could not do anything about the matter’. They didn't protect me from the rest of the soldiers who turned their backs on me either. Or gave me some insight into the process that was taking place." This girl continues to tell about a everyday life that was difficult to live with, and a defense that she felt she was failing by. There was a lack of leadership responsibility. I believe that reporting on rape cases is both important and correct, but it cannot be that because it is a police matter, the defense can waive responsibility until the case has been investigated. The defence itself must address it in the same way as in other disciplinary matters. The police often spend a very long time investigating such cases, and it makes it even more difficult for victims to say so, as he or she then has to live on the camp together with robbers for a long time, before any action is taken. My question is, what does the Minister of Defence do with it? We need a warning institution that both keeps and lowers the threshold for alerts, the one who dares to say so, and ensures legal certainty until it is notified. How does the Council of State view the application of the disciplinary rules more effectively in these matters? The survey shows that rape and attempted rape are similar to that of women and men in defence. Thus, we cannot justify the outcome of the phenomenon of a gender discriminating culture. The introduction of the general duty of protection for women has been successful, and it is consistently satisfied that the defence has used female resources. The infringement cases in the Defence Department are not a matter for women in the Defence Department to deal with. It's a management responsibility at all levels. Studies also show that 40 pst. by women, a reduction in the number of comments and claims that women do not belong in the Defence. In the future, it will be essential to ensure new measures and strengthening existing measures and not to differentiate between the sexes, but to ensure the diversity of defence. The public is informed that the Defence has already notified that they will implement several measures in the wake of this investigation. These are understood to include awareness campaigns, regulatory review, improvement of alert procedures and joint meetings of the leadership group. When such serious issues are identified, we know that awareness campaigns are not sufficient. Attitude campaigns have been conducted in Defense in the past, and some of those I've talked about tell us that there can be a movie, and that's the attitude campaign to which it is referred. In many places, there is much better response. But I don't think it necessarily has an effect to watch a short YouTube video or read a brochure. I don't think that has much effect. In a hierarchical organization, as the Defense is, what the leaders say is, in their own words, which means something. They have to tell themselves in their own words which standards apply in the Norwegian Defence Agency. Good attitudes require a long-term effort at all levels of defence, and it requires leaders of both sexes at all levels of defence. We already have zero tolerance for sexual abuse in the defence regulations, so the defense already has clear opinions. That's the survival we have to work with. The measures I mentioned earlier will enter into a larger defence action plan, with both short-term and long-term measures. The Chief Press Officer of the Defence Force, Per-Thomas Bøe, told VG that the Chief Defence Officer's team would review both the results of the survey and the proposed action plan. How does this work actually take place?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e1093	It is common to open up the interpellant to address an important topic. This time it's really in place, because this is one of the most important things we work with in the Defence by day – how we take care of the personnel we have. The defense has conducted a detailed investigation into bullying and sexual harassment. The purpose of the study has been simply to increase knowledge of what bullying and sexual harassment consist of, and in that way such behavior has come to life. I take the results that have emerged from the study very seriously. It is quite simply that no one should be subjected to such behaviour, either in the defence or elsewhere. In the defense, we proclaim zero tolerance for sexual harassment and zero tolerance for bullying. Those who expose others to this type of behaviour shall be immediately informed that this is completely unacceptable behaviour. There should be no doubt. It shall not happen, and it shall not be tolerated. It's a bit of the leadership job that people at all levels of the defense -- just not to tolerate this kind of behavior and to charge it right away. We have to rig the defense, as a large organization, in a way that makes it possible to alert and disclose critical facts. Unfortunately, the study shows that this does not always happen. We do not have a good enough knowledge of the scope of critical and illegal conduct, and the defense therefore has an important job to do in this field. The survey, which was now carried out, started work in 2015. To those who have pointed against methotrexate and said that it is an extension of it – no, the defense saw this problem earlier. You started that job earlier. As the interpellant was correctly informed, the reason for developing a new investigation for the defense, with 63 new questions, was that one had to take into account the fact that the defense lives very closely throughout the day. In the past, a employee survey asked, "How are you doing at work? Now a study has been developed that asks, how are you doing? Then you take on a job in a camp, you live in a camp, you have free time in a camp, and you work and are so close and so close that you often have weekends together. That's how you get with a greater share of the lives of the employees in the Defense. It's probably also what makes the results so different from what we had hoped and expected. The results were worse than we thought. That's essentially because we're asking in a different way. We're getting the truth better with this investigation. The defence shall be in good faith for having taken it seriously and for having drawn up a proper investigation. Knowledge is important. As the interpellant is quite right, this is about how to get notified. An untrustworthy warning system is not a good warning system. There's an alert system in Defense today. I don't think it's good enough, with both of the reasons that the interpellant gives here. It shall be such that when it is notified, it shall be taken seriously. The alert must feel taken seriously, but it must also be a system that is so reliable that the alert must be able to safely enter into such a process. There is a point of legal certainty in that issue. And we're going to put that in place. The defence has taken several steps to follow up the results of the survey. One of them is the review and improvement of the existing alert and follow-up procedures. There are clear requirements for employers and line managers to follow-up cases that become known. Responses are also required according to the conditions identified. We have focused on training personnel and clarifying the management responsibility in alerting matters. Another important measure is the quality assurance of education and the building of competences among managers in the fields of attitude, ethics and management. Defence will also review its internal legislation and bring them together in a comprehensive directive. This includes a common policy on expected behaviour and intimate interaction between defence personnel. The defence shall also provide even more clear information to employees and guardians on the alert procedures for all those who have been subjected to bullying or sexual harassment. Those who have experienced this will be provided with the necessary information on how to apply for help, and they will experience the help they need. Implementation of the concrete measures following the investigation into bullying and sexual harassment in the Defence Sectors is ensured. In addition, the work is closely followed by the management of the Defence Agency, which coordinates the work and contributes to the sharing and follow-up of experience across defence sectors. From the Ministry of Defence's side, we follow the work in the Armed Forces close. Following the completion of the survey, the Ministry has given new and reinforced assignments to the Defence Department. The arms sector shall have clear guidelines for dealing with incidents involving bullying and sexual harassment. Defence sector personnel shall feel safe and easy to report. Those involved in events involving bullying and sexual harassment shall be protected. Etats shall further report on the status of bullying and sexual harassment activities, with a particular focus on measures and the effectiveness of measures. In addition, the defence shall be reported on the number of reported issues of bullying and sexual harassment. The reporting shall include the number of reviews and penalties. The Ministry of Defence is continuously assessing whether we need to take further action against the sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e1116	This is an important debate, which the Minister of Defence also stresses, and we have the same objectives. But what I didn't get good enough concrete answers to is how to use the disciplinary code of defence in these cases. The defence has its own system of punishment and disciplinary legislation. This is a code to create and maintain military discipline. On 19 March, the Defence Forum published a case in which they highlighted the scope of this system of punishment. Here they show that in the last five years, 109 cases have been reported to the military police on sexual harassment and rape. 34 of these cases were reported to the police, 7 cases ended in punishment, 13 cases were dismissed, and 14 cases are not known what has happened. This means that there is a risk that those matters that are so serious that they end up with a police report do not always happen further in the defence. Then it has become so serious that it is a police matter. But if it's a less serious matter, the defense might take more of it into account, and it ends with disciplinary measures or penalties. There is also a risk that lack of knowledge causes the most serious cases, i.e. the cases that are reported to the police, to have no consequences other than what the police provide. There are several factors that make a case adjourned by the police, but that may still be important to punish for the defence. This involves, in particular, cases that are dismissed because of the position of the evidence. Major Terje Raknerud, who is head of the military police investigation department, says himself that this can be an important tool to strengthen confidence within the force. ‘Refs is not a punishment, but a means of creating and maintaining military discipline,’ he explains. The Disciplinary Act of the Defender has lower debt requirements and can therefore be used to punish generally undesirable behaviour in the Defender. This means that the defence can be punished for negligent actions, that is, actions where one should act differently. Several explain that a major challenge is the lack of an overview of the cases that have been committed to the police, and the reason why these cases have been dismissed. In this connection, the Advocate-General states that she had wished for a more comprehensive system, so that matters relating to the defence could be followed from start to finish. I therefore ask the Council of State again which concrete measures have been taken to apply the Defence Disciplinary Regulations, with greater effect than today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e1129	No action has been taken in the sense that we have a disciplinary regulation which, in the event of a notification, is put on hold – and if the notification is filed, it can enter again. The disciplinary regulation shall be used, in operation, by the Defence. I believe that the most important approach we are taking from the Department towards Defence is, first of all, to use the knowledge we have now acquired to develop better management, simply because this is a management problem – the disciplinary regulation is a tool for the defense leaders to charge unwanted behaviour and should be used in that sense. I'm perfectly clear that when we get examples that cases have been handed over to the police, and that then feels like the management of the defense is retreating and saying that this has now become a case for the justice sector, and that you have nothing to do with it, that's bad management, a misunderstanding. It can't be like that, it's in no way about caring for its staff. No, if there has been such a serious incident in some department that it has gone to the police, on the contrary, it is more important to follow it up. And it's also part of the management directive that Defense points out now. The defense is a workplace where we both have sex. We've got gender-neutral protection obligations, and the proportion of women is increasing. I think we need to put more into the harness to raise that proportion even more, in order to get a healthier balance between the genders in the Defense. I believe that when we talk about diversity as a value, we also talk about diversity in the sense that we have boys and girls, men and women, present in positions, as a value. That gives us a better result, and then we also have to put ourselves in the harness to ensure a better balance. Now, for the defense's sake, there was a renewed ambition for that 20 pst. in war school and command training shall be women. I have asked for another model where we say that it should be a minimum of 30 pst. by each sex in command training and at the War School. Because I think that all the time we say that diversity has value, that it's an important balance, we should concentrate on getting that balance rather than looking at a small measure for the proportion of women. So I'm going to take some grip and see if we can improve that process to get faster results in that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e1140	I want to thank you for a good discussion, but I just want a little more concrete action. Because if it is that if a person reports a rape, there should nevertheless be disciplinary action on the part of the Defence – if it is the current legislation, I think it is quite clear that it is not being followed today. The paradox here is that the more serious the matter is – there are at least examples that the defence has not taken up the specific case. Then I think the Council of State must look at the disciplinary code and how it is followed up, because it is very important that even if there is no evidence in a specific rape case, it is almost impossible for people to live together in a military camp after something like that has happened, and it is difficult to get people convicted in a rape case. We have to base that on here. It was a concrete person who talked about this to the NRK. Then the position on the defence side, as she experienced it, was that this was not a case until the police had completed the investigation. Then I have to ask the Council of State: is it so that then her leaders have misunderstood what is the law? And what will the Minister of Defence actually do to ensure that disciplinary law is applied far more widely in cases where no one is necessarily convicted of rape in a court of law? My question is essentially what the Council of State intends to do to ensure that disciplinary legislation is applied more fully in these matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e1151	I have great respect for all the stories we've heard after methotrexate and after the investigation came. I have very much respect for the stories that have stood up with their history and took the burden of being in the light of what they have told. We have several stories that show that the follow-up has not been as it should be. I don't think it's necessarily the regulation that's wrong – it's about practice and respect for the disciplinary regulations, and respect for good human resources. And as I say, it's not supposed to be that because a case is left to the justice sector and reported, you have to wash your hands and say that then we have to wait and see what happens. No, good human resources policies and good human resources are about caring for those who have had to take such a serious step as to report a colleague or employee in this way. So we're going to take it the most seriously, and here it's going to be continuous follow-up. That's the important part. There shall be management and in such cases there shall be tangible management. This is how we get rid of the things we discovered in the study.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e1160	The debate on substance is then closed. 5 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e1178	Troms and Finnmark counties shall be merged from 1 January 2020. We've had a lot of discussions about this in Stortinget, a lot of rematches to try to change the scarce majority position, but to no avail. This interpellation is not a rematch attempt, but I have promoted it in the hope of knowing specifically what the government will do to strengthen the northernmost state of the country, and East Finland and Vadsø in particular. The opposition in Finnmark to this merger has been enormous, which emerged clearly during the referendum in May 2018, where 87 p.m. voted against aggregation. The background of the resistance is complex: Finnmark is Norway's largest state, with an area of 48 631 km2. As if it is not enough, it is Norway's least populated counties, with about. 75 000 inhabitants. Large areas and few people are a major challenge – we know that living there. So we know where to go. We know where to go. We know where to go. When we are combined with Troms, the area will be 74 494 km 2 and a state bordering Finland, Sweden and Russia. I also allow myself to say that there is a security dimension in how Finnmark is handled. We are really afraid that the labour market, and especially competence jobs in Finnmark, will be depleted. It's not a fear without reason. We have seen over the last six years that there have been major changes in the public labour market in Finnmark. There has been a demand for efficiency in state agencies through, inter alia: The ABE reform – the red tape reform. To put it this way, it looks like Finnmark's side: It's easiest to streamline the most remote central strokes. I can mention in fleng etats that have ‘restructured’, which has always led to fewer jobs in Finnmark: Statens vägvesen, Skatt Nord, Fisheries Directorate, the police and the Food Authority – and there are several examples. Is it e.g. in the sense that the fishing office located under the Directorate for Fisheries is to be set up in a fishing industry where there is a great deal of activity and a lot of fish is landed? Here I can mention the offices in Vardø, Berlevåg and Havøysund, which are closed. The tax offices in Båtsfjord, one of Norway's largest fishing forces, and Lakselv have closed down. But our treasure, it will have the big community. When state infrastructure is removed, it gives a clear and unambiguous signal to the population living there: your home is not as important as elsewhere in Norway, no matter how much you bring on board fish, regardless of whether you are a positive contributor to the country’s GDP. What it does to a population, you don't have to have great imagination to understand. Distance is increasing between capital and districts, between government and parts of the people. Vadsø is our county capital, where County and County Municipality are located. A merger of the two municipalities means, of course, fewer jobs in total. There is great fear in Vadsø that this merger can lead to the disappearance of a large number of skilled jobs from Vadsø City. Municipal staff have expressed their concern and concern for the future. The merger of the county offices in the two counties is also not entirely painless. Vadsø shall be the location of the County, but nevertheless there is a widespread fear of transfer of competence among the employees associated with the danger that the real management will sit in Tromsø and not in Vadsø, based on the fact that competence is accumulated where the managers are located. We don't know if it's going to happen, but what's clear is that both county employees and county employees feel uncertain about the future. The concern that Finnmark and Vadsø should get out badly is also registered here in Stortinget. I refer to the document ‘Consent between the Government Parties and the KrF on task transfer and regional reform’, dated 24 September 2018, where it reads: ‘The parties encourage the municipalities of Troms and Finnmark to take substantial more account of Finnmark and Vadsø in the distribution of jobs in the new county municipality, in particular with a view to the distribution of the county administration.’ The joint study is now in progress with the work Stortinget has ordered it. As I have understood it, Vadsø has been promised to establish a Northern Region Secretariat located in Vadsø. There have been some headlines in the media that the Secretariat is currently only planned for one person. It would be nice to clarify what the plans are like and how the scope of the Nordgebiet Secretariat will be. After all, the regional reform was argued as a reform that would lead to the relocation of many jobs throughout Norway. Also in this area, it would be nice to get an estimate of what this relocation will mean for Finnmark. My question to the municipal minister is specifically addressed to Finnmark and the Vadsø situation, all the time when the government parties have also thought that special attention should be paid to this area: what will the municipal minister and the government contribute to the Troms and Finnmark counties in order to take substantial more account of Finnmark and Vadsø in the distribution of jobs, in addition to the fact that the majority who have adopted this call for consideration? Is this an obligatory point for the government and the municipal minister, and how will the minister actually fulfill this promise with content? I look forward to the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e1213	The government wants living communities throughout the country. We want to spread power and build society from below. A strong local government gives peoples and communities freedom and the ability to control their own everyday life and social development. The government strengthens the county councils as regional community developers by providing them with more means of developing the counties in the right direction. County councils that help more people get to work, get businesses to get the labour they need, and create more jobs, create attractive regions and boost growth. New Troms and Finnmark County have a high potential for increased employment, reduced unemployment and increased competence in the region. Unemployment in Finland has been above the national average for a long time. At the same time, the proportion of persons employed in the public sector, i.e. municipalities, county and state administration, is relatively high. Future growth and value creation in the county therefore need to come significantly as growth and new jobs in the private sector with high value creation and profitability. Reducing non-advantages from secondary education is an important objective of the government. Despite positive developments in Finnmark in recent years, especially among students starting in a professional field, the proportion of students who have completed and passed five years after starting up is significantly lower in Finnmark than the national average. By taking an active role in the design of own educational services, i.e. secondary schools and post-secondary schools, and to other providers of education in the county, from universities and colleges to private vocational schools and other authorities in the county, county municipalities can contribute to better access to competent, qualified and relevant labour in the regional labour market. The law of division, such as, inter alia: regulates the aggregation of counties, assigns responsibility for implementing a aggregation adopted by the Stortinget, to the counties themselves. In the merger between Troms and Finnmark, it was demanding for the parties to reach agreement locally. The counties therefore asked the Department for assistance. The ministry has spent a lot of time and resources helping Troms and Finnmark to find solutions together. Of course, this has been a demanding situation for both Troms and Finnmark. In agreement between government parties on task transfer and regional reform, we ensured that, in addition to new tasks for all county municipalities, there was a special strengthening of North Norway. The consensus between government parties was deepened in the keynote on tasks for new regions. In the communication, we announced that we would strengthen the northernmost county municipalities by giving Troms and Finnmark county municipalities responsibility for about half of the funds in the Arctic 2030 grant scheme, in close cooperation with Nordland. Furthermore, county municipalities shall be involved in the planning and implementation of meetings of Arctic Councils. A Secretariat for the Regional North Region Forum in Vadsø shall also be established. The management of grants to women's languages and culture is proposed for transfer to the municipality of Troms and Finnmark. In order to support the merger process, we signaled that Finnmark, as the smallest population group, and Vadsø, as the smallest administrative unit, had to be taken into account significantly more when it came to the distribution of county administration. Workplaces are an important tool for good growth and development across the country. That is why, in the Granavolden platform, we have been aware that we are going to locate new public, competence jobs across the country, even outside the largest cities. As a general rule, new state activities are to be established outside Oslo. We have followed up the plan for the relocation of state jobs from 2017, and we are working for further relocations in the period. A total of 850 jobs have now been decided to be located outside Oslo. All departments are responsible for following up localisation policies in their fields. Studies and decisions on structural changes in state agencies shall take account of developments in state jobs in the relevant municipalities and labour market regions. Ministrys shall make clear requirements for underlying agencies to address policy considerations for localisation. The county offices of Troms and Finnmark were merged from 1 January 2019 to adapt to the new county structure. In order to achieve a good regional balance in public jobs in the region, the government chose to place the main seat of the new county office in Troms and Finnmark to Vadsø. The distribution of municipal jobs is something I think county municipalities should focus on in the assessments they are now making, as well as stimulating value creation and employment in the private sector. I record that there is political leadership in the merger, and that politicians in both Finnmark and Troms are actively involved in finding good solutions for the whole new state. I have a basic belief in decentralizing power and moving tasks closer to the inhabitants. Transferring additional tasks to the county councils — also to Troms and Finnmark — means giving citizens greater influence over how the tasks are handled. Several tasks at this popular level will both increase the legitimacy of county municipalities and make it more meaningful to be state politicians. I think Troms and Finnmark will see more opportunities together and so make sure that the new county has cities and communities that are attractive enough to retain and attract skilled labour. The new county municipality is itself responsible for organising the new county municipality, and I think that is how a majority of the county council believes it should still be.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e1249	I thank you for your reply, but I regret to say that I do not feel that my main question has been answered. It is a bit of the same argument that we have heard throughout the discussion related to regional reform. My interpellation was not to take a new round about it. My interpellation was, what do we do now? How will the government follow up what they themselves have signed up to and decided on, namely, that whatsø should be given special consideration? We do not disagree that we need to work to make the region more attractive and that it can be a great potential. But at the same time, I think you also have to take inwards that if you build up public skills jobs, it doesn't necessarily make it easier to get private jobs. This is closely linked, and I believe that this is a state responsibility. There have been challenging situations related to the cooperation between Troms and Finnmark, given that there was considerable resistance in both states to this. Nevertheless, politicians have taken that responsibility, joined the community and taken that job, despite the fact that they have also received a lot of criticism from the local population because they have done so. There has been no simple matter at all. My main point was: it cannot be the responsibility of the county councils to pay particular attention. If it is decided in the four parties that have a majority in the Grand Duchy, that majority must have an opinion on it. They have to have some tools to come with. As I hear the answer from the municipal minister, it's nothing special. It's actually Troms to consider Finnmark, but it's the four parties that have adopted it and that have written it down. It can't actually be right. I have also not received an answer to this with the Nordgebiet Secretariat, how large – not in the exact number, but approximately – it should be. We're interested in that because we fight for every job, because the jam I've lost a lot of jobs associated with the reorganisation of public institutions. As it looks now, this whole reform can only be a strong sum – with many negative numbers for jobs. It's important.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e1262	We follow up on the regional reform in many departments – they are working to transfer tasks to all regions, including Troms and Finnmark. The sector responsibility for it is still with the departments, but we will make a presentation of this in the municipal bill for 2020, as we have announced earlier. I am a little uncertain about what the representative is looking for an answer. It seems that the representative believes that the common denominator no longer has the task of organizing itself. It has a common denominator, in both Troms and Finnmark and everywhere else in the country. We are not in the department to sit and organize the new county municipalities. That's the common denominator to do. They know their challenges and needs, and they know best how to do this. What we have done in the consensus it refers to between the four parties is to be clear in our call to look at Vadsø as the smallest and Finnmark as the smallest – we also said that when it was presented. But it's the responsibility of the common denominator. They're the ones who're going to get organized, and they know best how to do it. We don't intend to state that for Troms and Finnmark. It is not that the state knows better than Troms and Finnmark itself – as a contrast to the other county municipalities. It is true that the State, the municipalities and the counties must make the necessary structural changes. There are completely different challenges today than it was 10 and 20 years ago, it should just be missing. Taxes were mentioned. The way we deliver the tax return, the way the tax returns are treated, is completely different today than 10 years ago and requires a completely different organisation. We can't let go of this because it's difficult or uncomfortable. It has not brought about changes only in Troms and Finnmark; it has brought about changes throughout the country. The state is going to change, but we're going to make sure that the changes don't just happen in the regions and the jobs stay in Oslo. On the contrary, we need to move out jobs and locate jobs across the country because the wit is well distributed. As far as I know, Vadsø still has a very high proportion of public employees compared to other places in the country. As regards the Secretariat of the Nordgebietforum, it is described in the Task Notice. I am very amazed at the debates on this. Nordgebietforum is described in the task message. It is a forum that has two meetings this year, which is today organized from Oslo, but which is to be organised from Vadsø. So they have two meetings this year, and of course you don't get thirty jobs. We're moving more resources than we use today, and then we're going to have to look at how we can organize this together with other tasks. We're also going to get back to that, but it's under work.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e1275	I'm a little surprised when I hear the council talking now, because I think it's very much a disclaimer of what's now being said. It is said that you have asked – you have asked – that Finnmark and Vadsø be taken into account in particular, but then you don't say anything about how to contribute more to it yourself. What you do is to transfer all responsibility to the regional politicians, who have already taken on a very great responsibility in this reform. We already know how intense this case is in the north. We know how intense it is especially in Finnmark, and it is particularly intense and difficult in East Finland. I think we should have an understanding of that, we should have respect for that, and you could have used the opportunity to help by actually saying what tasks you can spend. One suggests that you have spent so many jobs – 850 or something like that. How many of them have been added to East Finland? You might be able to answer that. I, who come from Troms, and who in the past has been the head of the County Council and been involved in this work, am very concerned about what is happening. It's not because those who have now taken on the work of working in general don't do a very good job, because they do. There's a lot of respect for the job they've done, and we know it's demanding. But I'm concerned about how this cooperation is going to develop in the long term, how long it's going to take before it can be functional and good. The part of the country we have in the north is the most amazing part of the country. There's amazing opportunities there. We have unique resources, and we have people who want to develop the continent, but we need tools. When you have a government that has over time built up a tool to help you develop new private jobs – cut as much as you have done in regional development funds, cut innovation in Norway’s ability to build new jobs – it goes without saying that there will be little left. There's not much to distribute. When you then put all the responsibility on the two counties of Troms and Finnmark for their benefits and special consideration, there is not much to distribute. I would also like to say that the Workers' Party in the North, in Troms and Finnmark, has taken on a very important and important role. It has been demanding for regional politicians as leaders there. I believe that the Council of State from the interlocutors must be able to say something about what kind of instruments you can put on the table in order to bring about more development in business. What are we going to do given that there are large distances in the new region? It's more expensive to have a prison in Troms and Finnmark than in the Week. It's much more expensive. How are you going to get rid of a lot of bad country roads – which are very important for developing business? You have to fly a lot in North Norway, even when you're going to interact. We have challenges in terms of higher education and non-admission. What are the instruments? What are the economic instruments that can give the new region the muscles it needs? The problem is that this is the answer the Council of State does not have. You're saying that this has to be found out in common. It is, I must say, quite bold to say that the responsibility lies only there, and then abdicate all responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e1294	I actually thought that what the four government parties had adopted, calling for particular consideration to be given to Finnmark and Vadsø in the distribution of jobs, meant something. The government's response suggests that it meant nothing. Troms and Finnmark themselves shall take the noise there; common denominator shall do so. Then I thought, "Why was a decision made?" Why was it written when it obviously doesn't matter anything? As far as the Northern Territory Secretariat is concerned, I have not suggested 30. But it seems from the answer that the Northern Area Secretariat is closer to 1 than 30. Then maybe we'll call it North Area Secretary. I do not think the answer from the Council of State is an outstretched hand to the tough job that is going on in common in Troms and Finnmark. It's demanding, and it doesn't take much imagination to realize that trying to merge two county councils that don't really want to, is a lot harder than for counties where you can almost walk to each other. It's huge distances. It's demanding what's going on, and I think it's sad that there are no instruments, just empty words and whispers. I had hoped we could get a little more specific answers, and not least help in the situation that East Finland and Vadsø are up in. We're looking forward to the municipal proposition. We're going to follow closely and see what lies there in the case of Troms and Finnmark. And then we're going to hope that it might be more concrete than what we've got today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e1305	The President will point out that «flashes» are an unparliamentary expression previously mentioned in the Storting and asks the representative to refrain from using it in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e1310	I'm glad things are going as well in North Norway as they do. The debate here sounds like everything is bad and difficult. What we're talking about is creating a new administrative unit at county level – creating a stronger county municipality in the north. It doesn't sound like that when I hear the debate. It's called disclaimer when I actually have great respect for the fact that we have a third level of government that gets more power, more influence, and that, of course, is not to be ruled from Oslo. It's not the government that's going to decide how to organize. They're going to do it on their own, and then we're going to back up. We have. It is such that the government and my department have laid the headquarters of the County of Vadsø. So we've done what we've said. We've put state jobs there, we've encouraged the states themselves to look and do it, the way they think is the best. With regard to tasks for the new regions, I would like to encourage you to read the task message. New means of transport, industry, agriculture, public health, in a number of other areas that we are now, in all the departments, working to transfer to the new regions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e1319	The debate on substance is closed. So 6 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e1335	I would like to start by thanking the Committee for good cooperation and clarifying that I am tabling a unanimous vote on behalf of the Committee, and that I have only partly been the case rapporteur, as Hans Fredrik Grövan was the case rapporteur at the beginning when we discussed the matter. But he has thus resigned from the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. It is that when we stand here now, it is really the 20th anniversary of when this case started. It started with a meeting of the Nordic Defence Ministers in 1999. They agreed to start developing a unit helicopter – in parentheses, a unit helicopter that I believe is now available in 27 variants – and started developing that project. On the basis of the treatment we now have, there is a thorough report from the National Audit Office that refers to several propositions and related settings in Stortinget. Originally, in 2008 we would have received eight helicopters for the Coast Guard and six helicopters for the frigates. At the time the Riksrevisions report was finalised, at the end of the year 2017/2018, there were six preliminary versions and one final version coming to Norway. Let me start with the assumption. It was said by Stortinget that we were going to buy helicopters, which were as much as possible based on known technology, and that the material was to be developed. So a new helicopter was selected from a manufacturer who had not previously produced helicopters. There is probably one of many reasons for the status described in the Riksaudition report and in our setting: that the helicopters are severely delayed, they provide fewer flight hours than expected, and they have high maintenance needs and high operating costs. One thing that is serious in addition to that, by the fact that this case has gone over so many years and over a number of councillors' periods as the Council of State, is that a common denominator is that reporting to the Storting about delays and causes of delays has been limited. In addition, it is easy to see that late deliveries are due to the supplier. Everyone agrees. But what the Riksrevision believes they have found in addition is that the Norwegian authorities themselves may have contributed to the delays of the supplier. It was one of the topics that came out in the hearings we had. When it came to state councils, we started with former Minister of Defense Godal, who was the one who had very much the case preparations for the conclusion of the contract, and as we asked, among other things. whether it was taken there with the known supplier and on account of the Storting. It is easy to see today that the reasons why Stortinget had taken into account were too little followed up. Although it is also right to note that a common feature of this case is that the conditions presented by the Ministry of Defence have not caused political conflict in the Stortinget either, it is such that the assumptions that Stortinget made, of course, were known to the Stortinget, but when the election was made, they were also aware of what interpretations of the terms had been made. Godal, as I said, was based on the preliminary work of the Nordic Defence Minister's meeting and further on the Defence Council, and so it was Kristin Krohn Devold who was the Council of State that actually signed the contract in 2001. What was perhaps the most striking thing about her contribution to the hearing was that she stressed that in her time – and that was about a whole four-year period – she had only received one note, right after the contract was concluded, which was related to the NH90 helicopters. There we might see some of the causes of the challenges we have, because it was the first four years that were going to facilitate two important things. One was the design, choice of solutions, specifications of the manufacturer that Norway wanted, and the other was to facilitate the reception of the helicopters to come. When the Council of State itself stressed that she had been little involved in this matter in four years, it is a good illustration of some of the challenges, because over the four years, the Council of State should have been very far away from providing staffing, competence, specifications, etc., and preparing the reception organisation. Then came the Council of State Anne-Grete Stroem-Erichsen, and in her period there were delays – in 2005 there was already an expected delay of 18 months, but until 2007 that delay had increased to four years. Also in that period, the Riksrevision points out that there was little information on deferrals and causes of deferrals to the Storting. Then Grete took over Faremo, and there were further delays. What we have chosen to mention in a positive way in the setting – and there is agreement – is that when Espen Barth Eide became the Council of State in 2011, he started a work to consider cancelling the contract because one saw that the delays were great, the deliveries were late, and one probably also began to see that the production was somewhat behind what had been expected. In this context, alternatives for both the Coast Guard and the frigates, the alternatives found, and whether they could satisfy the Norwegian needs were considered. There was a professional review there, among other things. The FLO, the FLO, was strongly inside the picture, but it ended up with – and it was only when Anne-Grete Stroem-Erichsen had once again become the Council of State – that the trade-military council also, at the time, after the review launched by Espen Barth Eide, was that they should go further with the NH90. In this context, it is quite interesting to see what former Chief of Defense General Harald Sunde said in the hearing that the previous Control Committee had on the operational capability of the frigate weapons. Then former defense chief Sunde said: ‘After all the analyses and reviews, both in the Defence and in the Ministry, the conclusion was that we had to continue with the NH90 helicopter. This is a great tragedy." That's actually a pretty good summary and description of the whole case. So it was Eriksen Soreide who became the Council of State. We have also mentioned her positively in the setting, with the background that despite the conclusion to go further with the NH-90 she took at least some action to get better order on the structure and follow-up of the project, including. by separating it from the FLO, FMA, which was given as its own task, among others. to follow this project. There should be a new review of the contracts, etc. Some of the things that are bad in this project are the bad contracts. It is that in the case of day tickets for non-delivery, there was a lot of use in 2011 at least, and a lot of it already in 2008. So that means that you don't have any penalties left to put power behind demand that supplies now come. There were also significant weaknesses in the contracts and there were significant weaknesses in the quality assurance of the contracts. The Chief of Defense of Bruun-Hanssen said in the hearing that the FLO, the Defence Logistics Organisation, which was responsible for accepting and implementing the helicopters in the period 2012-2015, probably pointed to some of the explanation, namely that there were small crews, that there were many other projects in parallel, that they were given the money to redo, but that it was difficult to acquire the skills needed to manage such a large project. Among the things that may also have been Norway’s contribution to the delay of the supplier are the fact that design and development measures became harmful, as the head of defence himself said in the hearing. We are now in a situation where we have a few of the helicopters that we should have been delivered, and it turns out that we get flight hours out of the investment. When the decision was taken, it was expected that we would have 430 flight hours per year, while the actual distance – in a few helicopters – is 90 hours. And it's part of the story that the problems we have with suppliers are the same problems that other countries have with both late deliveries, actual flight time, which is lower than intended, etc. There is a significantly greater maintenance need and high operating costs compared to what was expected. In the case of maintenance hours, today we are probably up to 15 times the expected maintenance needs. The Committee has taken up the Riksrevision findings and recommendations and made them its opinion. We note that there are a number of weaknesses in the project, that one initially went too little into recommendations and the basis of the contract in 2001, that the quality assurance did not capture the weaknesses, that the assumptions of the Storting, which I have had, have not been followed up enough, that there was no requirement for documented operational safety, that the guarantee of maintenance friendliness was first exercised from 2022, that there is a lack of spare parts, that first the Defence Logistics Organisation and then the Defence Material have accepted all delays and consequently weakened the ability to cancel the agreement, that the lack of knowledge and understanding in the FLO and the FMA have been throughout, that the maintenance and supply studies or the material operations plan were not in place when spare parts came to Bardufoss, and a number of other points that are critical and that we are thus repeat are critical. It is a little special that we end up with a proposal for a concrete Roman number decision on this matter. It's not common. But it's unanimous that this time it's necessary. The proposal for a Decision states: ‘The Government is asking the Government to keep the Storting up to date on the further follow-up to the case, including return to Storting in an appropriate manner, assessing whether alternative helicopters can be more useful for parts of the Air Force’s needs due to expected operating costs and flight time.’ It is, as I said, a unanimous proposal for a decision, and it is our expectation that the Minister of Defence will now be in close contact with the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, which is the Scientific Committee on this matter, to see if there is any way out, whether a person can come up with better solutions for the future operation than the report of the National Audit Office, as it now stands, and the vote, as it stands, gives cause for fear.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e1388	I would first like to thank the chairman of the committee, Dag Terje Andersen, for the sound management of the committee's work on this matter, and for the thorough work of the rapporteur. The rapporteur's thorough review here, too, makes it easy to be gathered on both the actual history description and the comments about it, just as in the vote delivered by an overall committee. The story is long. The case now affects its sixth ageing period, and there is some evidence that it cannot be accepted with that either. I often tend to establish that the after-school clock is an actual knowledge. In this case, there is and there is a lot of time left behind. In dealing with the matter, there are two particular challenges I have met. One is the challenge of focusing on the knowledge that the responsible state councils have had at the time they took their en route position. When we see the whole story today, it seems strange that no one got hold of it and stopped or changed this purchase at an early stage. However, I have great respect for the fact that my view is colored by the whole of history that I have now acquired, and that in no way was it as simple, or perhaps not possible, to see where this would carry away at an early stage. The second major challenge is to deal with military leaders who no longer have their posts, and who clearly point out that priorities should have been different and other choices should have been made, while, as far as I can see, there is no evidence of corresponding clarity from the period they were in position to influence the purchase. I also wrote this in the after-clock account, but I believe that we are also here at a materially weak point in the handling of this large purchase in the Defence. There seems to have been an unusually large distance from the Defense to the Ministry of Defence on the way in the case. I think that responsibility can be placed on both sides, but taking into account some of the statements that have come back, I think there is something that has been missing in the active service. A review of the long list of weaknesses in the project is not necessary from my side, not least because the rapporteur has been involved in much of it. I also expect that more people will elaborate on parts of this. However, I would like to make a few brief comments. What amazes me the most is how, at the very beginning of this project with open eyes, significant and clear assumptions were made by the Storting. How could it be possible first to ignore this completely, and that no one captured this as a significant deviation that had to be followed up? I will again not allocate blame – it is equally distributed in this case – but this is very strange for me. The second thing I think is obvious is the lack of available competence to follow such a process. I noticed that several demanding purchases came at the same time, and that this challenged the resources, but then it had to be seized to get the necessary help in place. It is well known today that both ordering and follow-up competence are crucial factors for successful procurement, including on much smaller projects than this. The distance between the Defence and the Ministry of Defence has already been pointed out, but as the Committee also points out in its position, it is striking that a number of government councils have obviously had a distant relationship with the follow-up to the purchase. Fortunately, these are honourable exceptions, and it is therefore in their place that Espen Barth Eide and Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide are presented positively in this respect. Their summary and answers to questions in the hearing were reliable and elucidating. En route in such a case to find out when passing the so-called ‘point of no return’ is, of course, demanding when standing in the middle of the decisions to be made and having in mind answers as to how things should now be. This, together with the fact that errors have been made both by the supplier and by Norway, has, of course, made the roadside assessments difficult. The need for helicopters is urgent, and it is about using the helicopters we have in the best possible way. Security and defence capabilities are under pressure as they are now, and it is essential to look at how best to bring operational capacity to the right level as quickly as possible. The most important thing for us in the Right and the work of the Control Committee now is to ensure that the lessons learned from this matter lead to systems and procedures that give all parties a thorough case-law on this type of procurement in the future. This means that internal communications within the professional community, communication between the professional community and the ministry and communication between the ministry and the Stortinget must be carried out in a much more systematic and thorough manner. Finally, it is not up to the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee to make professional policy assessments and decisions. We leave that to the respective professional committees. That is why we are an overall committee behind the position on this matter, where we are taking an initiative both to give the Trade Committee, that is, the Foreign and Defence Committee, the opportunity to take stock of this procurement matter and to create, if possible, a common zero point for all of us in the further follow-up to the acquisition of new helicopters. There is no doubt that we need to be much more united about the further assessments and decisions to be made.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e1413	I can also start by thanking the chairman of the committee for good work – there has been a lot of work on this matter – and for good cooperation in the committee. I would also like to thank the National Audit Office for a thorough and important report. This has been and is serious, because you see that there is a lot that has not been done. It looks like you've spent a lot of money without having control of them. We regret that many central and involved leaders have not done a satisfactory job. This applies to the rental in both the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Defence, but neither we at Stortinget have had enough attention around this matter. Therefore, this matter has developed in a negative direction and contrary to Stortinget's intentions. It is strange to be documented that the Ministry of Defence that project owners do not seem to have had enough time, will or perhaps the ability and competence to understand the complexity and risk exposure of this project. At the top of the lease, it also appears that there has not been the required multidisciplinary project competence, or the experience and responsibilities of such a large project. During the hearing, it appeared that the lack of leadership and coordination between the Defence Logistics Organisation and the Defence Equipment does not appear to have been helpful in this project. A question mark must be given as to why a programme director with dedicated resources in the Ministry of Defence was not added for the NH90 project, as was done in connection with the purchase of F-35 fighter aircraft, and as the Ministry of Justice managed AW101 through its project. We in the Center Party are also critical that the contract negotiations have not had the necessary competence to take care of the project's interests with the supplier. In this case, I wonder if Norway has not established a greater alliance with the other buyers of these helicopters. As a result, the buyers could have had more in store for the NHI. It would be better, all the time it appears that the NHI doesn't seem to have control of the task they got. At the same time, you can't blame NHI alone. It was the Ministry of Defence that voluntarily chose the NHI as a supplier, a supplier that had not previously produced advanced helicopters. It was also the Ministry of Defence that specified and approved the technical requirements of the helicopter, and it is those that have entered into the existing agreement with the NHI, with the terms that the agreements document, and that do not adequately meet the project owner's demand for risk management and guarantee liability, etc. As you can see, this is a matter in which one has accomplices in both big business, government, Ministry of Defence, project management, project management and the supplier, NHI. In this case, short project plans, budgets, risk and quality assurance procedures or reporting have been in the vicinity of good practice. It concerns audits, progress, economics and problems that have arisen in the course of the process. If you see what guidelines other public agencies have supported in connection with purchases, you have. Directorate of Administration and ICT, Diffi, a project guide that is a common public sector project model. He's not used from the defense's side, a rather important part of the model. I think this wizard could be a good support, although the acquisition and phase-in of the maritime helicopter to the Defense is a challenging matter. I find it strange that during the time that has passed, one has not sat down to renegotiate the agreement with the NHI and tried to get additional agreements to take care of the defence interests. The report is about what has happened, so what now? What's going to happen in the future? We are still concerned about the progress of the NH90 project, and we cannot see that there is a satisfactory plan for how the NHI will be able to deliver within the time horizon now set to 2022, and expect that timetables and budgets will have to be updated. From our point of view, we believe that a now should have had a neutral group of qualified people to assess where we stand, both legally, technically and in terms of production, in relation to the contract that has been concluded, including any additions and changes that have been agreed upon. It is particularly serious that billions of taxpayers' money is gone, without any consequences. It helps to weaken the confidence of both the Defense and the Stortinget. There are many serious aspects to this matter, but perhaps the most important thing is that we have for a long time had reduced operational defence capabilities within an important area. This is not only a matter of late deliveries, it is also a matter of fulfilling the technical requirements. If it turns out that the NH90 helicopter is delivered after many years of delay, but cannot deliver what they are about to do, and has operating results outside accepted frames, the entire project will stand out as a double failure. It's dramatic if it turns out that the operating costs of these helicopters are at a completely different level than the current ones. It is also worth noting that the head of defence in the hearing confirmed that constant reorganisations and fragmentation of the defence's operations have contributed to making it difficult to have an overview and adequate progress in connection with the helicopter project. It is uncertain whether constant organisation is the answer to challenges in such cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e1441	If we're going to have a good enough defense that works all over the country, we need helicopter that works. Unfortunately, reading the findings of the National Audit Office’s report on the NH90 purchases is quite disappointing. Firstly, the delivery of the helicopters is very delayed. And once they've arrived, they've had few flight hours and have not been available. At the same time, it has cost a lot more to operate and maintain helicopters than planned, and there has been a significant shortage of personnel. To put it simply, the budget for these helicopters has gone out of control. The National Auditor also says that Stortinget has received less information than Stortinget should have received. Our defence decisions are some of the most important decisions that Stortinget makes. Then it is absolutely essential that the elected representatives get enough information to be able to make real assessments. There's a lot to learn from the way our neighbor Sweden has handled this. As the Swedes realized that the NH90 would not have full capacity until 2020 due to all the delays, an investigation, a public debate and a decision on what the defence would do in the meantime were already made in 2009. They then chose to buy several helicopters to meet their needs in the meantime. We did not get such a public debate in Norway. I fully agree with the Riksrevision that a comprehensive situational description is a fundamental prerequisite for having an informed defence debate and for political priorities and decisions in Stortinget. In the Stortinget information, it has been pointed out to a large extent that the supplier is responsible for the delays. That's absolutely right. But at the same time, the report shows that the defense also has its share of the blame. For example, after signing the contract, the defense was to create a maintenance and supply study and a plan for the operation of the material. That is what the framework for managing investment projects in the defence sector says. But here it hasn't been done. Despite the fact that the defence has had many years since the contract was concluded in 2000, there was no first draft in place until 2017. So when the spare parts started coming to Bardufoss air station in 2010, there was no material operating plan or maintenance and supply study ready. At the same time, people in the Defence Logistics Organisation were missing. There was also a significant reason why the helicopters had long periods of inactivity in the first few years. This is not the only comprehensive defence investment under the responsibility of the Defence. Therefore, it is essential that the Ministry of Defence now really enters into this matter in order to learn from it and ensure that this does not happen again. When large amounts of money from the community go into the purchase of defence equipment, we have to know that we have good enough routines to take care of the material that we have. The Minister of Defence must also ensure that the Stortinge gets all the essential information in this type of case, so that we elected people have a real opportunity to have proper discussions based on facts. Finally, I just want to say that I support all the recommendations of the Riksrevision.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e1458	Unfortunately, the matter we are dealing with today must be described as a scandal, both when we look at progress and when we look at costs. For hard-working taxpayers, it must be tragic to see how the individual state can inflate billions of dollars more than intended or necessary for operation and investment. And for us in this room there must also be a cross of thought. How often are there not large debates about a hundred million dollars, not least to set up a government budget? But here the most likely billions fly over almost two decades – and for decades to come – without anyone being able to man up and pull the emergency brake. Yes, we will probably get the helicopters that Norway has ordered — eventually. No one has managed or dared to guarantee exactly when everyone is in place. And so when or if everyone is delivered, we'll have to give several hundred million dollars more per year to operate these helicopters to get close to the number of flight hours that the defense chief has asked for and said is necessary for the defense's operational capability. So we have to use funds from other planned and necessary activities in the defense, or find so-called fresh funds, so that the helicopters that we ordered can do what was the whole precondition for the purchase. It's kind of a special situation to be in. The case started, as was also the case-rapporteur, with the defence in 2001 contracted with NATO Helicopter Industries for the delivery of 14 NH90 helicopters. The cost framework of the acquisition project is 8 billion. kr in 2018 value and under the original contract, the defence should have received eight NH90 to the Coast Guard and six NH90 to the frigates during 2008. It's starting to be years ago. The status at the end of 2018/2019 is that the defense has received six NH90 in a preliminary version and three in a final version. The total investment costs of helicopters and peripheral equipment, construction and civil engineering costs, ship adaptations and operating costs in the phase-in of NH90 so far are well worth 11 billion. kr. Helicopters are, as we have also heard from the case rapporteur, considerably less available than provided. In 2017, six NH90 in their preliminary version flew in total 550 flight hours. On average, it's going to be 90 hours per helicopter. In 2017, on average, only one in six helicopters were available for testing and training, the rest being put on the ground pending maintenance. The spare part situation is very strained and significantly delays the heavier maintenance. This is the status. The defense estimates that only after several years will 14 helicopters be able to achieve 2,100 flight hours a year, just a third — a third — of what was foreseen as the needs of the Marines and Coast Guard. In this situation, the Defence Manager has recommended prioritizing flight hours with the NH90 to the frigates and finding other solutions to meet the Coast Guard’s needs. The maintenance need for the preliminary version of the helicopter — measured as maintenance hours per flight hour — is 15 times greater than initially provided for the final version. However, it has been claimed that the final version of the NH90 will be less demanding to maintain than the provisional version. However, experience data from countries that have had this final version of NH90 over time may suggest that maintenance needs will remain high and that operating costs will be similar. If one assumes that the number of flight hours can be increased from 2100 hours to 3900 hours per year, the Swedish Defence Research Institute has calculated that this will cost 470 million. kr more per year than previously assumed. This is an hourly price of NOK 260 000. It's more than twice what the defense calculates that F-35 costs per flight hour when this becomes operational. So there are alternatives that you should have gone through at a much earlier point in time. If you look at the figures that we now know – and I haven't recorded that someone has protested at the figures that you've come up with – and based on 3,900 flight hours, 30 years of service and 14 helicopters, the calculation for operating and purchasing the NH90 says that we're talking about a total of 37,8 billion. SEK – 37,8 billion. kr in the lifetime! Corresponding numbers we've been presented by the competitor are 11.4 billion. kr at the same time. These are staggeringly high sums, even in the case of the difference – a huge difference in price and cost. All we know now is that someone should have said stop at an earlier point in time. But as we've been exposed through a thorough consultation, it's clear that there's been a lot of government councillors and a lot of heads of defense involved in all these years. It makes the situation extra complex, and it's hard to say exactly who might be responsible for the situation you're in. There are many different people who have been inside the Ministry of Defense, who could have done something, but who didn't necessarily have the information to do anything. So it's hard. But now we are in the situation we are in, today – in 2019. That's why I'm particularly pleased with the grip of a joint control and constitution committee now. And as was said, this has been done in dialogue with many of our good colleagues in the Foreign and Defence Committee. Proposal for a Decision today reads: ‘The Government is asking the Government to keep the Storting up to date on the further follow-up to the case, including return to Storting in an appropriate manner, assessing whether alternative helicopters can be more useful for parts of the Air Force’s needs due to expected operating costs and flight time.’ As the rapporteur pointed out, the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs very rarely concludes with a proposal for a decision in Roman numerals in such a way as we now do. But in this case it is absolutely imperative. I am absolutely sure that the Minister of Defence sees the seriousness of this matter and will ensure that he comes back with just these assessments to the Stortinget, and that a discussion is held in the Foreign and Defence Committee on how to follow up this purely defence professionally, so that the defence gets the helicopters and the flight lessons you need. I am pleased that now – finally – Stortinget will say quite clearly that the project cannot continue without any new assessments relating to costs. It's just so sad that no one did this years ago. But I want to give a big thanks to an overall committee. Thanks to the rapporteur, who has handled the matter in an excellent way. Thank you to everyone who has participated, not least the Riksrevision, who has given a thorough report once again. It's important that we now get the country this case, and that we make sure that we get it in a good way, so that this doesn't go into history as one of the biggest scandal projects in the history of Defense.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e1495	The NH90 acquisition has been going on for a very long time – about two decades. An important reason why we are not in target is the supplier's lack of ability over several years to deliver the helicopters according to our order, as the Riksrevision also refers to. At the same time, we're going to be aware of the demanding task of phased into such a complex system of defense. Several years of strenuous effort are still needed to obtain the full operational effect of the helicopters. The status now is that we have received 10 out of 14 helicopters – six in a preliminary version, which is now to be upgraded to a final version of the supplier, and so far four in a final version. The defence is continuously phased into the helicopters in operational service. We are working on an ambitious schedule where we are going to have all the helicopters delivered and completed upgraded to the final version in 2022. Defence can now resolve operational missions from coastguard vessels in the North Cape class, and by the end of 2022 we will also solve operational missions from frigates and KV ‘Svalbard’. The capacity is to be built up until we reach the ambition we've relocated 3,900 flight hours annually. We're planning to achieve this in 2024. There are a lot of learning points in the National Audit Office's investigation of the acquisition and phase-in of the NH90. We will use this study to further develop and improve investment activities in the defence sector. The establishment of the Armed Forces Unit is a step that has already been taken to strengthen the management of material investments and material management in the defence sector. Since defence equipment has been established and worked over some time, we are now taking further action to strengthen the role of the defence manager. The aim is to improve the ability of the defence to derive the impact of material investment. For the NH90, the Defence and Defence Equipment have jointly established a Programme Board led by the Defence Staff. There is now one overall player with the necessary weight to ensure effective coordination between the parties involved. This shall facilitate as good a and fast a phase-in of the NH90 as possible. In addition, since 2017, the Ministry of Defence has held 10 special reporting meetings with the Defence and Defence Department. The aim of the meetings is to monitor progress and, if appropriate, to launch further actions to ensure the implementation of the NH90 in the Defence. I am dedicated to providing good and complementary information to the Stortinget. I have already taken the initiative to extend the annual project review in Prop. 1 S and will continue to keep the Storting continuously informed about the further follow-up to the acquisition and phase-in of the NH90. I am pleased that the defense is now more optimistic about the NH90, as the head of defence expressed it in the presentation of the annual report. The defense has also reported that they have managed to produce more flight hours than planned in the first quarter with the helicopters they now have. It shows that we have a positive development for the acquisition and phase-in of the NH90. It is important that the remaining helicopters are now delivered to continue this trend. However, I am concerned about a challenging spare part situation that leads to reduced availability compared to the potential. We're actively working on finding a solution to this. The proposal for the suspension of the Supervisory and Constituent Committee calls on the Government to also assess whether alternative helicopters can be more useful for parts of the Defence needs due to waiting operating costs and flight time. In such a context, it's important that we make an overall assessment that looks at all aspects of operating another helicopter type in the Defense. In 2018, we were told that the cost of operating the NH90 helicopters, in line with the current plan, is much higher than previously assumed. The understanding of the current situation is important, not least in order to reduce future operating costs and as a basis for further assessments. Once we have received the helicopters in final version, we can work on further developing concepts for their operation and maintenance. We are working to put in place several sources of supply and the necessary approvals by different suppliers. In this way, we can improve the assumptions for cost-effective operation of the NH90 with sufficient availability in the coming years. Let's not doubt that we're working too hard to implement the NH90 in Defense. In line with the current long-term plan, the NH90 shall be used to support both the frigates and the Coast Guard. Long-term plans and predictability are important for all those involved in getting the NH90 in place as a very good operational capability in the Defence. So to some media lookups that have been lately. In ABC News, I read a headline that the Minister of Defence misinformed Stortinget when it was NH90. They referred to an opinion during the hearing, where I had said that none of the nations had terminated the contract. It was in a context in which we discussed whether someone had thought the helicopter was too bad, and on that basis had cancelled the contract. It is true that Portugal has terminated the contract, or – which is equally correct – was allowed to withdraw from the contract. It is justified by the economic situation in Portugal, they were in direct bankruptcy and had no possibility of being part of the programme. So to those who think and feel that I have disinformed the Storting: there are no nations that have gone from the contract because of the process of production and delivery and the things that Portugal went from the contract simply because they did not have financial opportunities to participate. The NH90 is a very good helicopter for the problems we're going to use it for. The defence has flown more than planned with the helicopters they have available in the first quarter. I can see that we have been in a positive development lately when it comes to the acquisition and phase-in of the NH90. These are feedback that gives extra good motivation to put this capacity in place as soon as possible. But there are also feedback needed for the personnel working around this machine, and the personnel working in the Air Force. Air defence has come into a very challenging situation, with the phase-in of much new material. It makes it more demanding to be at work, every day, for that staff. We're going to take it very seriously and we're going to try to compensate where it goes. We'll try to provide support where we can. We think we've organized this kind of project in a better way now than we've done in the past. We believe that we have a steady hand on the steering wheel, and we use all the available skills to get this acquisition in the port as well as possible. We take seriously the Roman number decision of the Committee. There have been assessments in the past. I think it's quite natural to make those kind of assessments along the way. The last time we did that, the head of defense with his knowledge that we could probably only get 2,100 hours out of the helicopter park, so have to make a recommendation that we just used the helicopters on the frigate. When the Defence Research Institute and the Defence Equipment went in and looked at it, they concluded that it would be technically possible to get 3,900 hours out of the helicopter park when they fly. This enabled us to conclude that we are continuing the ambition to have this helicopter type present both on the frigate and on the coastguard. The extra costs are a matter for the next long-term plan, while we have to expect that when we are sitting with a fleet of helicopters in their complete version, we also have greater opportunities to develop our own maintenance procedures, our own operating procedures and our own procedures for use, and in that way we will be able to reduce the cost of helicopters. A former head of defense was quoted, he had said it was a tragedy – I think it was. The word "candals" is used here. Even in the Revue of the Day, I have said that this is a disaster. I don't have a problem standing in for it. Using 20 years to get something like a helicopter to the defense, we shouldn't be familiar with. But, as I said, we've folded up the sleeves and we're doing the best we can in the demanding situation we're in right now. I appreciate the cooperation with the Committee and with the National Audit Office in the context of the revision of this process. There's been a lot of learning points here -- some of them we're in the process of, and the others we're going to deal with in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e1531	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e1536	I want to ask the Council of State about his mention of proposals for decision I, which he said he is taking very seriously. That's good, and he should do that when there's likely to be a unanimous big thing that decides it. But it sounds to me a bit as if the Council of State has already concluded that there should now be the NH90 on both the Coast Guard and the frigates. The Committee invites a real discussion with the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy on this, and if we wait until we arrive at the next long-term plan, there are probably, and hopefully, some more helicopters, and the options are further limited. The Council of States may confirm that he will address the Storting as soon as possible and have a case dealt with by the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee concerning the elections, where the Committee has a real opportunity to assess the elections on the basis of what we now see of expected operating costs, flight hours, etc.?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e1543	As I said in my post, the head of defense, with the knowledge he had a year ago, believed that only 2,100 hours of that fleet, 14 NH90 helicopters, could be released. We now have knowledge that we can get out 3,900 hours -- the hours we need. That made us choose to continue the program of having helicopters on both coastguards and frigates. The Chief of Defense is in charge of his professional-military counsel. He will deliver that to me in October. There he will also look at this – how to take the NH90 fleet further into the programme in the future. If he then comes with some other knowledge, it will show up, but I am a little concerned that this is a matter we have been working on continuously. We have a lot of knowledge about it, we're going to make other assessments in that case, and we're going to the Stortinget with a response to the decision that's to be taken in the hall today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e1548	Then I assume that we will have an opportunity to assess that choice for the future on a real basis as soon as possible. When the Council of State mentions the professional-military council, which he expects to receive in the next round of October, a common denominator we have found by working thoroughly on this matter from 2001 until today is that we have found no example of the defence minister not following the professional-military council. It would be critical, and it would be a political responsibility attached to it. On the contrary, we find that all the defence ministers have done exactly what they could afford, but that some of those who have been responsible for giving it advice, later on, when they have been released from the position they had when they gave the council, give comments that give reason to believe that there was reason to be a little critical of the choices we made, however, on which the quotation from Sunde was an example. Then I would ask the Council of State to reflect a little about the political responsibility he has when the professional military advice is given, followed and then changed.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e1556	I am concerned that there should be knowledge behind the decisions being made. I am also concerned that it should be possible to document what kind of knowledge was present when decisions were made. I fully agree with Andersen's representative that we have had a lot of people who have said that they are safe, and when we have followed the archives and tried to find something in writing about it, there is no such thing. For the process we've had with the NH90 from the State Council chair, with the knowledge that the head of defense was involved in how many hours you could fly, you could say that you'd get out 2,100 hours. We went in with the Defence Research Institute and the Defence Equipment and said that we should be technically able to pick up several hours. Then it becomes an economic assessment. That's what we've been saying. We're going to let the head of defense take care of himself. The Chief of Defense, when he makes the financial assessment, may make a recommendation for another type of helicopter, such as: to coastguard or to anything else. But I'm concerned that the head of defense will be allowed to do that job now, with all the knowledge available today about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e1563	Yes, the head of defense will do that job. But what was mentioned in a footnote here was that the prerequisite for possibly increasing the number of flight hours is a huge cost, and that some claim that there are other less costly alternatives. What a unanimous committee asks for is that our Scientific Committee on Stortinget should be given the opportunity to make a real assessment of it. That is why I am concerned that the Council of State is making sure that a real assessment of the cost picture is also made, which allows the Stortinget, through proceedings in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, to make a real assessment of the cost picture we are accepting in the future, and what is available of alternatives to get to that cost picture.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e1568	Yeah, and I told you, we're going to deliver.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e1573	I notice that the Minister of Defense believes that there was no one who withdrew for technical reasons, but there was certainly not a discussion in the hearing. I have tried to go back and see what was said in my hearing; what was said was that no one withdrew. But the Council of State was concerned that the FMA has strengthened this project. What we heard from several of the defense leaders during the hearing was that an ever-changing reorganization made many uncertain about who was responsible for what, and what was done. One also looks at the advice one has got, that one is uncertain about the cost picture and everything. The Council of State itself was in the process of building up a maintenance programme when the helicopter is in place. Shouldn't it be in place before the helicopter arrived?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e1580	Here's three things. If you read the record, I said that no nation had withdrawn, just when we discussed whether there was someone who had dropped off due to quality or delivery in the program – so I think I'm good inside. As for the FMA: Well, the Committee itself commends Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide for establishing the FMA, for it was a way of gathering, conducting and clarifying responsibilities in this work. I believe that we are within the reorganization that was done under Eriksen Soreide. There we simply got the capacity for material acquisition.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e1589	The head of defense was clear that that reorganisation could have complicated it. There was suddenly a new director who was responsible, and he himself said that he had not been in the picture of some of these assessments that were made in the past. Is it not a great advantage that the defence manager has the full overview and the image to be able to take such a complicated decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e1594	Yes, I fully agree with that. That's why we've also taken action, and now we've made it clear the Chief of Defense's role in the Defense Investment Portfolio.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e1599	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e1604	I would like to begin by saying that I believe it is good, correct and very necessary that the Committee has come to a unanimous position on this very serious matter. It is to the credit of Stortinget that all party political considerations have been taken into account and that they have promoted a unanimous attitude, which stands on a very safe footing. Now, when I take the floor, it's not because I have so much to add to the matter itself, but I have some reflections with the background of experience I have from previous work in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, especially, but also from the two years I've been in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy. I'll say the following, that my reflection is like this: how can this happen? That's not the first time this is happening. It is not the first time that the Storting experiences large exceedances in investments, in purchases and projects, construction projects, in the Defence. Unfortunately, there are too many examples of that. The situation we now have is a situation that is almost unthinkable when we hear the story. In the previous period, the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs had considerable work to do with the frigates. There are two aspects of what I am thinking about when I hear this debate, which is a repetition: we do not have access to the necessary spare parts. Why do you not have it, as – when you have made such heavy and big investments as for example. The frigates are? Why don't you have, for example. in the case of the frigates, had sufficient crew so that one could sail as planned? Helicopters were the prerequisite for the frigates to be effective and work well. Everyone agrees. But several of the frigates sail for almost 20 years before they get a helicopter. So many say – and I don't really criticize it: yes, we have to learn this from. When we all, as far as I am concerned, have to say that we have to learn from this, the question is: do we not have a planning and implementation structure in our defence, so that you do not have to learn – that you can do this in such a good way that you do not get into such serious situations as this? It's my heavy reflection as a staging representative. Because I don't understand why we're going to have it this way – why we're going to get into this situation. That doesn't mean I don't understand that this is often very complicated. I understand that it has to do with suppliers, I understand that it has to do with money, demands and follow-up, and that there are complicated military demands. I get it. However, there are still a number of questions that I take the opportunity to address in this debate, because I have experienced it so many times. Now we see that we have problems getting the Orion planes to fly as they should, because now we don't have enough crew. Then why is that? That's a good question. The tanks are standing to a large extent because we do not have spare parts and the capacity to keep them going. Then why is that? I just hear this is being said. I see that in the context of the investment proposition, some of this is taken up. That's good. But these things are repeated and repeated. I'm just asking the question, why is it so hard to make this work better? I hope we don't get into a serious situation with F-35. I'm the Defender's follower, me. I support the defense. I want it to go well. But I do not want this debate to pass without these reflections being delivered. I really hope that we do not get into a situation with F-35, so that it also becomes a very difficult matter for us. Of course, it's hard to say who's responsible. I don't place responsibility. I think it's quite collective in many ways. But I want to end this post by saying: I think it has something to do with the planning and operating culture of the Defense, which it is absolutely necessary to look at. This is completely independent of political colour and government. We have to look at it properly, because there are too many examples that it is not as it should be – that the cost framework cracks, deliveries are shifted and it is more expensive than intended, the operating capacity is not as promised, etc. etc. It cannot continue. I remember, because it was when I led the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, that former Chief of Defense Sunde called it – I don't quite remember what expression he used – disaster or scandal or something like that, but he said that after he himself had advised you to continue. I don't need to criticize Sunde in particular, but I would like to say that it's a little strange that it should be that way. As the representative Harberg said, in retrospect, all the military leaders say this should be different, but they don't say that when they're in a command situation. It's also a little strange, I have to say, that we in Stortinget experience that once they've left, they mean something different than they meant when they were in command. There's also a side to this culture I think it's necessary to put your finger on, and it's necessary to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e1625	This matter is characterized by a hairy balance between wisdom and after-hours. In this way, I would say that the representative Kolberg's posts were marked by more after-clock than wisdom. Any problem in the defense is not solely due to the defense itself. Many of the problems facing and in part facing the defence are due to political decisions — or lack of political decisions. Then I dare remind the representative Kolberg of what former Minister of Defence and party trap Bjørn Tore Godal said during the hearing. This project began as an idea by the Nordic defence ministers in 1999 with great enthusiasm, the enthusiasm of developing a so-called unit helicopter, a helicopter that should be as standardised as possible for use in the various defence sectors. It never happened like this. This project became a purely development project, a development project run by a joint venture consisting of four different companies. And when four different companies start a development project – four different companies that have delivery responsibility on their own for other deliveries – it is initially rigged in a difficult way. The judgment over the NH90 is too early to fall. It is clear that when you are ten to eleven years late with the delivery, it is not good in itself, to say it carefully. But once you get the NH90, it turns out this is a helicopter that works very well. Three helicopters are now operating as the helicopter will operate, and the others will follow. To evaluate alternatives, keep your tongue straight in your mouth. Then I'll show you what former defense chief Espen Barth Eide said during the hearing. He said it was difficult to find a turning point in this process where the project had gone off track. In 2012, careful assessments were made as to whether to bet on another type of helicopter, but concluded that it was not recommended. Making the same assessment six to seven years later and believing that a new conclusion will be reached, I find it very difficult to believe that we are getting on a better track. The lessons of this project are as follows: as far as possible, a fully developed, ready-made, standardised and non-standardized development project should be contracted, not a development project with many suppliers and many countries, where the different countries have gradually developed different standards and different needs, which makes what started with the idea of a common helicopter the exact opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e1640	The President just wants to remind you that Espen Barth Eide was the Minister of Defense and not the Chief of Defence, to which the representative referred, but will assume that it was just a slip of the tongue, to put it that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e1646	It was an upgrade!
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e1651	An upgrade, yes!
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e1656	I agree with a lot of the speakers. Then I find it very unwise to drive and partisanize this – whether I can be so ready to criticize my good friend Harek Rivers. I don't think it's right. I think we should all learn from what has happened, and then look forward to it. But we politicians must also take responsibility and not blame for the defence, which has been done a great deal. This project was a dream project for politicians to show that they could work together in Europe. You had to create a joint project that could be a kind of a competitor to the United States, which showed that we were standing together. - We bombed. Now you try the exact same thing again with the big, big connection from this big thing, with PESCO and others in Europe, and again we're going to bomb. It's not going to work, because we can't cooperate, and we can't get this done. It's too complicated. Now we have to realize that soon. That is why, as the representative of Elvenes also said, we need to look at shelf products, fully developed projects, where we can come in with Norwegian industry and supply additional equipment, such as missiles. We're going to look forward. We're going to look at the submarine acquisition, that it's right according to what we have ambitions about. Everything's not in the box there either. We have to be careful, so we don't get any more scandals, because they can come. Once again, stick your finger in the ground, stop believing that Europe can compete with the United States, with between 10 and 12 and 15 nations developing a project. It's not going to go. We've been saying it for quite a while. I actually worked in NATO when that contract was concluded. As long as it's – the year 2000 or something like that. Then I worked in NATO, and I remember it very well. I also remember discussions about it and about this euphoria around Europe’s gathering on this project – and with great excitement in the Biggest. It didn't work. Now we're learning from it, so there won't be any more such big common projects through PESCO. Now let's be realistic, because otherwise we'll get new scandals and new discussions in Stortinget – and a lot of money wasted, taxpayers' money.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e1667	It was a good picture of this. It is so long since the contract was signed that it was when Tybring-Gjedde was working. Now we're discussing authority, and we're discussing responsibility. The operational responsibility is now mine, here we are today. Let's be clear. Then I fully agree with those who say that we should learn from this, and I fully agree with Kolberg when he says that we have to ask ourselves why this can happen. Well, we have to go inward – and there is also the head of defence now – that since 1990 we have built up the Defence in many ways. Now we're in a situation where we have to build up. Thinking unit fleeting all the time may not necessarily be the right strategy. Maybe instead of buying big, we're going to buy four frigates, 52 aircraft – four of that kind, four of that – we're going to swap the entire portfolio every time. Maybe it's not the right strategy when we now have to increase operational capability and rebuild Defense. The Chief of Defense will deal with it in his professional military council. I would like to take a look at this in the context of the long-term plan. I think we might have to think a little bit about that part even when we're going to invest for the future and the defense. Thank you to the Committee for a good debate, and thank you for your good work. We'll take all the recordings further, and we'll probably come back to Stortinget with the queries that have come.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e1676	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e1692	The Civil Ombudsman is an important institution to guarantee the rights of people to meet with the public. The Ombudsman is doing a very important job to prevent public authorities from doing wrong and to ensure people’s rights in meeting the authorities. In 2017, the Civil Ombudsman decided to set up a working group to look at possible updates of the Code of Conduct for the Service. The background was that there was a need to update the legislation in several areas. The report of the Working Party was submitted on 4 July 2018. The working group has provided solid and comprehensive work. An overall committee welcomes the initiative of the Civil Ombudsman to carry out such a review. The report proposes inter alia: to remove the instructions of the Civil Ombudsman and to transfer some of the provisions of the law. Other provisions are proposed for deletion. The goal has been to clear up uncertainties between the instructions and the law, which have been partly overlapping. It is also proposed, inter alia: moving some administrative principles into the Civil Ombudsman Act. At the same time as this case, the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee has also addressed point 6 of the Report to the Presidency of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg set up to assess the process and the eligibility of members of the committees, selections and names appointed by the Grand Duchy. In the examination of these two cases, the Committee has considered that there are now good arguments for creating a new Civil Ombudsman Act instead of making an amending law. The Committee has therefore proposed, in its examination of this matter, that the Presidency draw up a new legislative proposal, which may be sent out at the hearing. The work of the working group should form the basis for this work. The attitude also mentions several points that the presidency should look at and assess. They can, for example, It is now time to find a new name for the Civil Ombudsman. It is also appropriate to consider whether changes should be made to the recruitment process and the appointment period. Finally, I would like to thank the Committee on Cooperation in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e1711	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e1727	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e1739	It seems that the Storting is ready to go to voting. In order to please the assembly, the President may say that today only unanimous decisions are to be taken, so this should preferably be done relatively well. But it's about keeping up with it anyway. In Case No: 1-3 no voting themes are available.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e1762	In Case No: 5 and 6 no voting themes are available.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e1833	Case No. 9 is the second time that the law is dealt with and applies to the law decision 53. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-07.ana.ud426e1874	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
