ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e28	The representative, Martin Henriksen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e33	On behalf of Jorod Asphjell, Torstein Tvedt Solberg, Nina Sandberg and myself, I would like to make a representative proposal to conduct a new student life study and a survey of the students' learning environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e38	The representative, Mr Henriksen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e43	I forgot the document. Can I be allowed to...
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e48	Then I can help.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e53	That's very cool. Thank you very much, President. This shall not be repeated. I am pleased to present a proposal by the representatives of the big business Elise Bjørnebeck-Waaagen, Siri Gåsemyr Staalesen, Lise Christoffersen, Maria Aasen-Svensrud, Torstein Tvedt Solberg and myself on strengthened crisis services for women with drug problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e60	The representative of the Bears Moxnes will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e65	I would like to make a proposal for a representative to stop the NSB's name change – and that it can be dealt with urgently, as the NSB has a general meeting on 22 March and it is non-meeting in the Stortinge next week. Tomorrow's the last big meeting before the NSB has a general meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e71	The representative, Sverre Myrli, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e76	And we can continue, because on behalf of the big business representatives Kirsti Leirtrø, Øystein Langholm Hansen, Steinar Karlstrøm and signed a proposal to postpone the issue of naming for the NSB so that the matter can be discussed in Stortinget – and also to ask that this proposal be dealt with in accordance with point (c) of the second paragraph of Section 39 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e81	Thank you! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e86	You want the president to have it, too?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e91	Gerne! - Thank you very much. The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that case No. 3 – Unit – to be addressed before case No. 1st@item: inlistbox – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e141	On Monday the Stortinget received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State, Mr. Jon Georg Dale, Mr. Ola Elvestuen and Mr. Kjell Ingolf Ropstad, will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We'll start with the first main questions, from the representative Sverre Myrli.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e150	Yesterday came the big surprise: NSB has to change its name to Vy. The NSB has survived the Union resolution, World War I, World War II, the oil crisis, the financial crisis and fifty Norwegian governments. But the NSB will not survive the government of Solberg. So after over 130 years, it's the end of the NSB, the Norwegian State Railways. Of course, the reactions didn't wait for you yesterday. I think the Minister for Transport should look for a good idea to find those who think the name change is a good idea. The change in name, we heard yesterday, will cost 200 million. SEK-300 million. kr. The NSB is a public limited liability company, 100 pst. owned by the State. The Minister of Transport – and I will assume that he understands that the question is for him – is a general meeting in the NSB. My question is simple: Has the Minister for Transport, as a general meeting in the NSB, approved the change in name?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e159	The general meeting has not been held, but the board has consulted the department several times in the renaming process that has taken place over a year. My reaction as the Council of State when I took over the Ministry of Transport in August and became familiar with this matter in September was not so different from many of the reactions we saw in the media yesterday. The government didn't change the name of the NSB when a railway reform was implemented, as one made other structural changes. But the board of directors of the company thinks it is decisive for the competitiveness of the company that we are making changes that contribute to common profiling, that one gathers it as one today sees as an NSB and a Netbus, in one common company to be positioned, to win future competitions. I am busy that the board of directors has spent a lot of time on it and have made thorough assessments on the basis that about 10,000 jobs, which are in this company, depend on competitiveness in the future. The company believes that the market is changing, and that they are not positioned with today's organization to win new market shares. The company has then said that they must make this change. I am busy making several choices about using collective solutions. I'm busy that the NSB, as we know today, is going to be a company that actually survives many more decades, because they're competitive, and because they win supply in the market, whether it's on the bus or on the track. This means that the Governing Board's assessments are difficult to deal with in the general meeting. I have therefore warned the board that, if they think this is necessary, I will not actively oppose the decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e166	Then I realize that the Minister of Transport at the General Assembly will approve the name choice. 200-300 million. NOK is a lot of money. There's money that could have gone to a better train offer, that could have gone to buy more new trains. Private companies can change their names as much as they like, but this is – as I said in my first post – a 100 pst. State owned company. That's what the community means. This is what this is about. Thus, we all have a responsibility, including the Minister of Transport, to manage those funds in the best possible way for the inhabitants, or we shall say to the travellers in this case. My question to the Minister for Transport is: does he think it's right to spend 200-300 million? kr on new logos, to paint trains, new uniforms and other related names?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e175	The council also thinks it's an advantage if they add uniforms, and they have to change from time to time whether it's the Labour Party that rules, or it's the Progress Party that rules. It has some costs in itself, just like all other changes for the company have. But I'm busy spending no more money than is strictly necessary. The company has said that the change in name will cost between 30 and 50 million. kr. There is also a lot of money, but the rest are investments in new technological solutions, which also provide passengers with a better supply. That's despite all that I'm busy with, and that's what we've spent the big money on when it's about the railway in the last few years. The budget is increased by 80 pst. for the Norwegian railway – simply because more people have to choose to take the train. We now have 20 pst. more passengers than when the Workers' Party was in charge. And the company says that if they're going to be able to get more passengers in the years to come, they have to be more competitive, and that's the way they think they'll get it. It is also difficult for owners to overestimate their assessment by the board of directors.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e182	There will be follow-up questions – first Sverre Myrli.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e187	The reason for what is now happening on the railways, with many new companies and companies, which cost an incredible amount of money to organise, is the so-called rail reform and the decision of the bulk of the population in 2015. The government is using a circular argument, in my opinion: First, the government is cutting wings. The NSB is deprived of its trains, its workshops, its tickets, its properties – everything. Today, the NSB is just an operator company. Now NSB names, and what's left of NSB, as we know it, as an important transport company in Norway? My question is, we know the government from other sectors. First the wing clips the companies, then they're put out for sale. The flight is such a company that the government wants to sell – completely incomprehensible. Now what happens to NSB? Can the Council of State guarantee that the NSB will remain in state ownership?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e196	There is no plan to sell NSB. Therefore, we do not need to initiate this naming process. The state, the government, has not taken one initiative to change this name. I understand very well that the NSB, as a brand that is built over time, means too many passengers as well as adding them. We have not taken such initiatives. However, the board has assessed whether they will be able to continue to develop the company to provide better services to passengers, so that even more collective solutions, including at a time when the market is in significant change. This means that, in parallel with the company making these assessments, we use the large capital to invest in several trains, which means there are hundreds more train departures into and out of Oslo every day than it was when the Workers' Party was running. We also invest massively in the infrastructure to build up the intercity triangle, so that we have to have hamlets to operate on. But the company must also be competitive, and they think this is crucial to sustain competitiveness. That's the hard part to try out.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e203	Ingvild Kjerkol – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e208	To get better train provision, you have to have more trainsets, and you have to have lanes that go on stream – especially in Trøndelag. In fact, they have worked for over 40 years to electrify the Trønderbahn. And everything was really ready to start, until the council decided to build up the organization, because it was going to be about. 250 million-300 million. kr more expensive – that is about the same thing as packing the NSB with a new name, after what we heard yesterday and today. In order to get more passengers, you may need to spend the money on several trainsets. Does the Council of State understand that the drums shake on the head and ask for a little sun-darkness in order for patients to get a better train offer? What is Vy going to do in this context?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e216	I hope both the patients and the passengers get a better train offer, also on the Trønderbanen. That's also why the waiting time is approaching the end after we got the Labour Party out of the government offices, because it's quite right: before, when the Labour Party was running, it was hard to get a lift on the Thrønderban. Now there's a new train set. The reason why we didn't start electrification of the Trander Railway was that there was no increase in capacity, that we didn't get more train departures, which meant that we didn't get a better supply for the passengers. Therefore, we said, when we invest in the infrastructure, it is not only useful to have nice, new hamlets and new, fine signalling systems – we also need to actually have the capacity to run several trains there. That's why we made that assessment on the Trønderbahn, and that's why we're going to deliver on both a new train material and a better frequency on the Thrønderbahn in the coming years. That's the change from when the Workers' Party ran. Then we're not going to spend unnecessary dollars on the re-profile we're going to do, but we're going to make sure that we're a competitive company for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e225	Bengt Fasterøne – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e230	The railway reform started in 2013 and the aim was to split up the company and launch competition. What's going on? Train materiel AS owns the trains, Mantena operates maintenance on the trains, Bane NOR builds up the railway, Railway service operates and maintains the infrastructure, the Railway Directorate coordinates transport and is responsible for competitive outsourcing. Simple? No, no, no. Clear lines of responsibility? No, no, no. Complete structural management? No, no, no. When we were in charge of planning, the goal was to increase the frequency and buy and run double sets of trains, says the head of the NSB. What's going on? We're waking up with the big name issue of $300 million. kr, Flirt trains are parked around Oslo, Akershus and Drammen, so you can't get away from the rush traffic. Who is responsible for getting this done and in what way?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e237	The railway reform comes as a result of a report ordered by the Central Party when they were in government in 2011. It concluded with all that was too bad on Norwegian railway, which meant that the railway didn't hang out in time. Therefore, we made changes, so we carried out a railway reform – on the report ordered by the Senterpartiet. What's the result? We don't know all the results, because we're in the middle of the procession, but we know there's 100 more train departures in and out of Oslo every day now than when the Labour Party and the Center Party were running. We know that the permissions of the railway sector have increased by 80 pst. since 2013, almost 9 pst. only in 2019 - 9 pst. from one year to another, a formidable growth. We know that there are between 10 and 15 million more passengers who are well on the train now than when the Central Party had the Minister of Transport, and it comes from the sum of changes, and that we have companies that are positioned to win new market shares. That's what we need in the future too.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e244	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e249	50 pst. of the increases that the Council of State boasts of investments in the railway sector, the Central Party negotiated in the budget for 2014. The centre party said a clear no to a railway reform, as opposed to the government. What the Council of State is standing here doing is that he owes to others, and then he hides behind the skirts of the board of directors of the NSB and says that it was the competitiveness of the board of directors. But it is only the Council of State and the government that has initiated this madness, with the fragmentation of companies within the railway, with the outsourcing of competition, with new directors with million wages, with the exchange of names and probably also with a possible privatisation in the future. It is also one and only the Council of State that can stop this madness, because that question is not decided by the board. One may not hide behind the board; it is determined by the general meeting. It is not the board that should decide whether to waste this money on a new and totally incomprehensible name, it is the Progress Party and the Council of State. Why should he waste that money on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e256	It's not surprising to me that the Central Party is opposed to almost any change when they're in opposition, it's almost every debate in this Greatness has shown over the last few years. But when the Central Party put in position, one of them was more about changing the name of the Post and Bring than the government is now proposing to apply to the whole re-profiling of a company with 10,000 added, so the Central Party's policy on this does not depend on this. There's a smaller problem today, because no more money should be spent on this change than is necessary. But the board of directors of the company thinks it makes sense that we have a common profile of what is today Nettbuss and NSB, and they say that it is decisive for the competitiveness of the market, both the Norwegian, in which they compete, and the Swedish, in which they compete. This means that they have meant that this change is crucial for the company. There is a reason to ask: if one does not, what is the consequence for them to be added to the company?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e263	Freddy André Supreme Court – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e268	There are many of my former colleagues in the NSB who were sad yesterday. The NSB first lost rails and stations, so maintenance, and with this government’s railway reform, the NSB has lost the tickets, the trains, and yesterday lost the NSB identity. So the name is just the symbol. It's part of a foreigner, neoliberal, privatizing and disintegrating policy wrapped in orwellish novelty. And all we've got is more directors and something that's soon just a crew company on the rails, called Vy. We could have done better on the railway. For these 280 million. We could increase the capacity of sleeping compartments by almost 50 pst. The capacity had been expanded by nearly 100,000 beds per year. And we know that the capacity is more than blasted on both the Bergensbanen and the Dovrebanen. What would be the best priority - new name or new sleeping places?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e279	The members of the company are important, and I understand that many people also know a somewhat boring situation because they are happy about the identity of the company they have worked for. However, the deputy representatives of the board of directors of the company have been in charge of the rest of the board, believing that this is necessary for the competitiveness that is involved and securing the jobs of the company for years to come. The deputy representatives of the board of directors of the company have meant it. It should also be a matter of whether you're busy with them. The result of this change that has occurred in the railway reform is not fragmentation and disclaimer. On the contrary – there are several passengers, larger investments, more train departures, more new material. We're going to keep doing that in the years to come. At the same time, we're going to have a company that feels they've got the framework conditions they need to participate in winning supply in Norway for the years to come. That's what's going to decide to what extent we have an efficient and good company even in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e286	Freddy André Supreme Court – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e292	It is no wonder that employees’ representatives on the board have an understanding when the company is not responsible for trains, rails, maintenance, tickets or anything other than crew. That's exactly why I'm saying that this is just a symbol of the fragmentation and privatisation of the railway that this government has stood for. So what's the result of the whole thing that's now crowned with a new name? Well, it's a price tag of 1.4 billion. kr and also an innumerable new directors with million wages. That's what we know. I wonder if the Council of State is satisfied with this railway reform when you see how the people's property now changes names, is split up, tendered, Go-Ahead – where is this going?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e299	This is on the way to getting more rail for the money and better provision for the passengers. It's the Go-Ahead water supply in Norway, because they could offer passengers a better supply than the other competitors could – at the same time they had a reduced price. So just on the railway reform, the competition launch on the South Railway, we're saving $3 billion. kr – 3 br. kr — the next 10 years on that route alone. And what does that make us able to do? Yes, to reinvest in new infrastructure, to improve maintenance, to replace the signalling system and to improve the functionality of the network. That's precisely why we're implementing the reform, because we're both going to have more happy passengers, the passengers are in the focus of the reform, and we're going to get more infrastructure for the money, which makes more people take trains well. That's what we see when 10 to 15 million more passengers are already on board the train because SV was in and out. It shows that we are on the right track, and that we still have a lot of winnings to pick up.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e306	Bears Moxnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e311	Everyone laughs at the name Vy. Over the past 24 hours, I've heard many creative excuses as to why it's such a good name, but what I heard from the Council of State, that it's about competitiveness, is the stupidest thing we've ever heard so far. He appeared almost as a sort of Norwegian version of comedian Ali in the defense of the name Vy on the Norwegian State Railways. On the other hand, it is still a little common sense to trace in some of the Progress Party. Morten Stordalen of the Transport Committee said yesterday that there is a ‘complete derailment’ with the exchange of names and that the views of the NSA should be ‘to win tenders and have satisfied passengers’. Red is against the name change, the centre party is against the name change, the Workers' Party is against the name change, SV is the same – and also, probably: All in this room is against this name change. The question is whether the Council of State will take that signal both from the opposition, from its own party traps and not least from people out there rather than being the government's consultants' man, and rather stop the exchange rather than go for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e318	I am the owner of a company that will compete in a market both domestically and abroad. I am the owner of a company that says that they need to have a common profile, a common identity, a common brand name to be more competitive in the market, a company and a board that is legally responsible for the decisions they make, and that is responsible for having a company with thousands of added people who are doing well and helping to secure the work. I haven't – if I'm being honest – made a lot of personal reflections about the name choice, because I think that the argument that I'm not leading, but that the board of directors, that this is decisive for the competitiveness of the company, must be an additional weight – there must be an additional weight added by a owner. My claim is that regardless of what kind of owner constellation you had, the owner had to have thought that to take care of the added and position the company in order to win new offers in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e325	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e330	Sometimes it seems as if it is a goal for the Progress Party and the government to make life a little more difficult for anyone working in the transport sector or working in transport in Norway. Take sailors – the government thought it was too generous that they had a rent supplement that they would not pay taxes on. With the Advance Party in government, you have to pay taxes on it, because the seafarers are doing so well. Take the works that build a road in our country and that live on a wreckage – Finance Minister and Progress Party leader Siv Jensen thought it was too generous that they would get it tax-free and have an advantage of living on a wreckage, they would pay tax on the diet and the lodging they had. Or take those who work in Norwegian railway now – if you take trains, talk to people, there's a lot of uncertainty, a lot of insecurity, and not least those who keep trains, have felt that their working conditions have gotten worse. Another major transport industry is the Norwegian taxi industry. There are almost 16,000 people working in the Norwegian taxi industry who do a very important job every day. They bind Norway together. We have a taxi industry that is everywhere, always, at all times of the day, all around Norway. What have they experienced with today's government? Yes, they have experienced a draft consultation, that one should deregulate the whole industry and let go of many new players, which are causing great unrest. That's the one. The second thing they have experienced is a tax shock when they are going to buy new taxis. From December to January, for example, the charge on a Caravelle of around SEK 200000 — a direct attack on industry profitability. In addition, they have experienced that the VAT rates were first increased from 8 to 10 p.p., then from 10 to 12 p.p., which causes profitability to fall on each trip. The Granavolden platform states that further harmonisation of VAT rates should be sought. Can the Council of State Jon Georg Dale now say to all those who drive taxis, that there are enough fees, that there is enough fee shop for Norwegian taxi industry? Or is there going to be another round in the next state budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e339	I have often dreamed of being a finance minister. I have not yet been, and that means that questions to be answered by the Minister of Finance will be left to the Minister of Finance to answer. However, there is no news for anyone in the hall, I assume, that as a Progress Party-man I am always busy looking at how we can reduce the fees. The car list in general has experienced huge reductions in taxes with us in the government. They would have had significant tax and tax reinforcements with a government other than us, almost completely independent of the power of the Center Party, we're looking at the alternative budgets of the opposition in this collapse. I am busy that it should be helpful for the taxi industry, which I experienced that the representative Schlagsvold Vedum was also busy with. Then we have to get a taxi industry that is both present and attractive, and that is part of perhaps the only collective provision people have in the districts, while at the same time ensuring that we have effective competition in the cities. That's what we've been listening to. We have heard that on the basis that the changes in the taxi industry are fast. They lose turnover every year. So it's an industry that's in spite of people travelling more and more, more and more being picked away by passengers and losing turnover. If we're going to position the taxi industry in a reliable framework to keep a job in the taxi industry in the future, we also need to consider what kind of changes we're going to make. We've got a whole bunch of auditions for the proposal that's been out on the phone right now. The ministry is going through it and will come to the Stortinget with proposals. It really means that what we're busy about is a taxi offer that works all over the country, security for the passengers who are in the taxi, so that they can be sure that there is sufficient competence for the driver and not just for the owner, and not least that we ensure a healthy and effective competition that allows part of the growth of the passenger transport market to come into the taxi industry and not in that part of the economy that we don't see so much again.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e352	Now I have been to meet taxi drivers all around Norway. Last week I was in the taxi station in Os outside Bergen – Terje Søviknes and the previous exhibition window of the Progress Party. All the drivers there were very clear about how unwise the deregulation the government is now adding up to. It's going to destroy their industry. They were hit forcefully by what has happened in terms of taxes on large, heavy taxis, such as. a Caravelle, which shall take wheelchair users. I went from there to Kvam and met the local local government representative from the Right, who drove the disabled cab and said, "This is going to be the last years I'm running the disabled cab, because I can't afford to invest in a new taxi in three years' time." The Minister of Transport is responsible for the taxi industry. Does the Minister for Transport think that there is a good development when, central to central, driver after driver, they say that they don't think there is a future in the industry with what is happening now? And was it an unwise decision to increase the fees as much as you did before Christmas?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e359	The Council of State stressed in its previous statement that this is not within his remit, but I still leave it to the Council of State to decide whether he will answer the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e364	Of course, I'll try to answer the question. The challenge for the taxi industry is not that it goes to heaven without changes in regulation, but that it goes wrong, that it loses its turnover. I know that the Central Party tradition is that if we just wait and see, maybe the problems go over. However, experience shows us that this rarely happens. It happens very rarely. I have great respect for those who do important work, run taxis, make sure that we have a collective offer in the whole country and beg to get people to go up every day. I have great respect for all the taxi drivers. So we have to look at what kind of changes are needed to make the growth in passenger traffic that the taxi industry is now losing to others, actually come back into the industry, and that's what's been listening to. And then we're going to make our assessments of the audio recordings that are coming, maybe make adjustments to the proposal if that's what's needed, and then we're going to come to the Storing based on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e372	It opens for follow-up questions – first Siv Mossleth.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e377	Representatives of the government parties owe ESA in this case. When the EU and ESA say jump, the government jumps without thinking about whether it is necessary, and without thinking about the results for most people. Today's drought policy is part of collective policy, and the government wants to destroy a preparedness that exists throughout the country. Today's taxis are not contrary to the right of freedom of establishment and can be justified for reasons of general interest. One might wonder: are there really greater social and geographical differences that are the aim of the announced change in the law, and will the government reintroduce the labour society and facilitate social dumping? Because it is not ESA we need to ‘please’ in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e384	The answer to the last one is no. I don't intend to facilitate an unemployed worker's society. We could actually end up there, but it's kind of obvious when the Center Party shows that we owe ESA. I haven't mentioned ESA in a word -- not a word! It is nice to ask questions, but it would be okay if a follow-up question was based on what I have answered. What I have said is that I am concerned about the development of the taxi industry, which is losing turnover. I depend on us having a taxi business that also works in the districts. It does not sound as if the representative has received the previous answers, when one hears the question, but that is the reason for the out-of-office hearing. That's what determines our ability to happiness. I'm not going to owe ESA, I'm not going to owe anyone else, because the explanation is that we have to have a competitive taxi industry that's in place across the country, which also means that the hearing proposal says that the municipalities outside the big cities can grant one-off rights, because we think that we have the right to do, and in that way make sure that they can make demands that we have a taxi service across the country. We're going to take care of that, and we've also sent it on the phone.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e393	Siv Mossleth - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e398	I'm recording that the minister and government representatives are talking about completely different things. This is a matter that concerns the taxi industry very much, and the government's partners are very concerned that it is only ESA's fault that you want to introduce this. The question we're really going to have to deal with is, are we going to have a taxi anywhere or only where it pays, at favorable times of the day? Grandma in the village who is going to a doctor cannot take a taxi if there is no basis for operating in the village, and Grandma in the city cannot afford to take a taxi to the New Year’s Eve company because the prices go up when it is particularly favorable. With regard to geographical preparedness: does the Council not see that this release destroys a mobility network that exists throughout the country and that everyone can use today?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e405	There is no release, it is actually such that a person can still grant one-rights. I come from an area where we have a bus every Friday if we order it, know the value of the taxi industry. If I hadn't had him Bakke-Roar, I didn't have any space for periods, but he's fixing it, he's fixing it. And that means that one can still assign one-rights with the hearing proposal that's been out there. So I don't owe ESA -- I don't owe ESA at all. I say that there is a need for a taxi policy that takes care of important districts, I agree with the Center Party. And then we have to have a competition policy that works in cities, so that there is a supply that passengers can use, instead of using buddy services, which actually means that the taxi industry loses turnover every year. That's what I'm busy about, that's what we've been listening to, and that's the background we're assessing the audio recordings, and we'll come back to the Stortinget with amendments that are adapted to it -- competition in the cities, good provision in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e412	Steinar Karlstrøm – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e417	The taxi industry has an important role in central and, in particular, districts. In areas without public transport, taxis are often the only option. The drying industry, with qualified drivers, provides a good response. In some areas you have even started to have heart-starters in the cars and be on the good alert. Employees fear becoming unemployed in an industry where one goes back to a black and uncontrollable economy. I was told about the taxi industry yesterday. My question goes to uniformation. In the hearing, the requirement is to have a plate of 40 mm – it is 4 cm – to make it visible that it is a taxi. The thrush should be uniformed as much as possible. It should be made visible that it is a taxi and it is expected that there is a qualified driver sitting on the taxi – and not least that the driver has something to live on. Will the Council of State consider changing the criteria for harmonisation and providing sufficient competence for drivers?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e426	In the hearing proposal that has been out there, there are increased skills requirements for the driver, because we move some of the skills requirements from those who have the right to do so to the actual driver. One of the examples we're going to see is that you need to have better skills for first aid, you need better staff to assess whether passengers are in a condition like – for example. After a patient trip, special attention should be paid to one. Do they have a house door on the outside, or do they have to follow it in? This type of competence is becoming more demanding for the taxi industry — with the outbound hearing design. It's important. To what extent there is a need to regulate even more strongly the size of the signs on the cars – I believe that if a driving taxi industry, one would like to know that there is a taxi on the road. Independently of public regulation, cars will be marked. But it's probably among those recordings that it's natural that we evaluate, based on the audio recordings that have come.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e433	Steinar Karlstrøm – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e438	Is the Council of State concerned about what will happen in the future, that we will have a tender outsourcing of the taxi industry, and that this will result in poorer material vehicles, worse cars, in this industry, which is so important?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e444	No – that is why we also put in the listener's draft the requirement that the taxis remain part of the motor vehicle register. This means annual EU controls instead of second-quarter years. This means, in addition, that there should be rights and competences attached to drivers. So I'm not worried about that, it's well taken care of in the hearing proposal that's been out there, and that's now being worked through in the ministry.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e449	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e454	My question goes to the Minister for Climate and Environment. A month ago, the government of Nussir ASA authorised mining at Repparfjorden in Finnmark. Two million. tonnes of heavy metal mining sludge will be dumped annually in the spring. This corresponds to 17 hourly loads per day in a fjord that has been given special protection to keep a sample of our main salmon populations. The committee that has evaluated the Mineral Act clearly states that an overall assessment is to be carried out when permits are granted. It shall include the environment and sustainability, even when it has been assessed before. Governments are launching a zero vision for plastics today, but he doesn't have a zero vision for mining sludge in the ocean. I think that's weird. My question is: What environmental assessments does the Council of State intend to do in relation to these types of mining projects – which are obviously to be made in relation to plastics?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e465	We have a zero. It is absolutely central to both the Jeløya platform and the Granavolden platform that no new permits for sea landfills shall be granted during this period. With regard to the authorisation now granted, an operating authorisation was granted by the Minister of Industry. This matter has been up in the past. We in the Left have been involved in addressing it in the Stortinget in a Document 8 proposal – in 2015, it was well – where we had suggested that no authorisation should be given in Repparfjorden. It was voted down by a broad majority – the Progress Party, the Right, the Centre Party and the Labour Party. So it's been up in the Storting. It was also up in 2016, when the emissions permit was granted and the last complaint was rejected in the case. So when I'm standing here as a vice-leader in the left, there's no doubt that the left has always shown that this is a project that we're opposed to. There has been a large majority in the United Kingdom, a large majority of them have voted in order to allow this. We have a consensus in the government that we won't have any new mining deposits in this mining period. My task now is to ensure that in the context of the permit that has been granted, it is well monitored, that there are no waste out of the 8 km2 that is defined to be within this landfill, and that there are no negative effects beyond the exact area for which the permit has been granted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e474	Although the wording of the government platform is available, it is now allowed to dump mining sludge in a new fjord. Although we have tried to stop this earlier, the operating licence is now granted. In the award of the operating concession from the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries to Nussir, a comprehensive assessment has not been carried out. Reference is made to the fact that this has been done in the past. No new information has been evaluated and no own assessments are made. Does the Council of State consider that the Ministry of Food and Fisheries carried out an overall assessment of the environmental impact when they gave the operating concession to Nussir at Repparfjord, which the Mineral Law actually requires?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e481	The authorisation granted under the pollution law was granted in 2016. What is now given is an operating concession. As I said, this has been up in Stortinget, and there is a broad majority who have voted in favour of this – the Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Right Party and the Advance Party. What has been negotiated about, and agreement on, in the government, both at Jeløya and – continued – at Granavolden, and which is my responsibility, is that no permits should be granted during this pouring period.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e488	There will be follow-up questions – first Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e493	In recent years, Ellinor Madland has cleared the area around Lima in Gjesdal. She picked her own half a ton of garbage in 2018. She is among over 100,000 people in this country who voluntarily go around picking garbage, among other things. on the great day of the beach, which we arranged last year, in the past, etc., and which certainly many in this room have been present. Many in the entire population have participated in that project. Last year the Minister for the Environment of the NRC said that the great commitment ‘shows that the Norwegian people have woken up, recognised the problem and are willing to address it’. What is the message from the Minister of the Environment to all the 100,000 people who have cleared and picked garbage from the sea every day, when the same government has allowed them to dump $2 million. tonnes of mining sludge in the just sea?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e500	Now we've really got a movement; there's a lot of people cleaning up plastic. From 2013, when you got a civil majority in Stortinget again, the effort was in place, it was 10 million. kr. Now we're going to spend 70 million dollars. kr, which was allocated yesterday, to measures both to clear and to prevent. In addition, there is international support, where we now have assistance programmes of more than 400 million. kr. So there's a significant effort to reduce plastic waste in the ocean. I'm going to Nairobi today to take the next step, also to drive forward an international agreement on plastics. We need that. If there's any area we're really running in the future, it's limiting the pollution that we're seeing. As far as Repparfjord is concerned, what I said earlier is: the left has been against this. The government has said that we will not have any new sea deposits, and this project has unfortunately had broad support in the Stortinget from the Central Party, the Labour Party, the Right and the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e509	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e514	This is not holding. We have an Environment Minister in a government that has just allowed 2 million to be dumped. tons of heavy metal sludge in the sea, at the same time as a heath in all human beings, over 100,000, which each year picks garbage from just the sea. Does not the Minister for the Environment really see the hypocrisy of one side asking people to take responsibility and pick garbage, acknowledge the seriousness, and, on the other hand, allow huge amounts of waste to be dumped in just the sea? Every year it's released about 8 million. tonnes of plastic in the world ocean. Two million. tonnes of mining lambs are allowed to escape into Repparfjord. It's obvious to all of us that this is a big contradiction. Is that what the Council of State sees?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e522	The President would point out that the representative of the Parliamentary change of words should find a different word than ‘hypocritical’ in order to describe something.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e527	My task is to ensure that the permit granted in Repparfjord does not cause any negative environmental consequences in addition to the 8 km 2 for which the permit was granted. We must have a comprehensive system to monitor and ensure that this does not affect anything more than the area in which there has been a dispute. I referred earlier to why it has been adopted. In terms of picking up the 8 million. tonnes of waste plastic that goes into the sea every year — there are now no sea areas where there is no plastic, there is no depth where there is no plastic — it requires much greater and more extensive work. That requires what we're doing here. We've increased the clean-up measures from zero to now distribute over 70 million. kr, as we did yesterday. We're still going to professionalize this work. We have to limit the unnecessary use of plastics. We must also get there that we prohibit disposable plastics. We need to follow up as quickly as possible on the EU processes dealing with plastics, and we need to work on an international agreement. It's demanding, but we're going to do that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e539	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e544	Ramona Lind thought that her first experience in court would be when she was going to see her son, Jussian Charlie, lead her first case in court. Yesterday she got her first day in court. It was as a witness to the case against the wagon driver who drove on her son. Charlie was hit on 7 January, he was badly injured and fought for his life. Now the doctor says that he will never wake up again. Ramona Lind has been engaged in the fight for safe roads in Norway ever since the son was hit on 7 January, and she carries a great sense – not against the driver, but against those who have power, who see all the accidents that take innocent lives on Norwegian roads, and who do not take the necessary steps to prevent this from happening. She says that it is not only the wagon train driver who should be punished when an accident occurs, on the acquisition of the North-Trom property right, it should also have been a transport company that hires cheap foreign labour without any equipment or knowledge to drive on Norwegian roads. Ramona Lind has also been out there supporting our proposal that we have to get a check on foreign vehicle trains at the borders, to make sure that at least they have tyres and are protected for Norwegian winter roads, at least have brakes that work, and at least have chains if it gets properly smooth. As we know, the government has not delivered on these measures. I want an answer from the Council of State to what he will answer Ramona Lind, who bears an anger against those who have power in Norway, who do not take the necessary steps to secure safe roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e555	State Council Dale shall answer this question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e560	At first, I think a lot of people know what it's like to be responsible for the regulation and follow-up of a sector where many families miss their closest every year, either heavy-duty or passenger car traffic. It's a responsibility that weighs, but it's not the important thing here. The important thing is all those who are left and feel that they have nothing to miss. Nevertheless, too many people do. So I want to express both sympathy and sympathy for all those debts, and understanding of the frustration you experience when an innocent person ends up in such a situation. It's the worst thing that can happen to us that something is happening to our closest. I have great respect for that. That's why what we're so concerned about is that we're going to do a lot of important steps to strengthen road safety work. Because of this, we have increased control of heavy-duty vehicles significantly. Therefore, we use almost all of our supervisory capacity in the follow-up to the trucks. Luckily, the number of trucks is falling. It will help very little those who will still be frameed. Therefore, we also look at stronger regulations, on tightening regulation, on sharp demands for winter tyres – which were not at all when we came into government in 2013, which it has been, and which we look at further intensifications of. I wish I could tell everyone that we are not going to have accidents on the Norwegian road in the future. Unfortunately, I can't do that. But I can say that we should do what we can to have control and supervision and to make sure that the trucks that are on the Norwegian road are spared for the conditions that we have here. We will continue to do that in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e571	The figures are clear: there are three times higher risks of getting involved in accidents involving foreign vehicle combinations than with heavy Norwegian freight cars, according to TØI. Mutual evidence has been provided that in eight out of ten accidents involving vehicle trains, the non-resident wagon train driver was on the other side. What Ramona Lind requires, what many in Norway require, and what we in Red require, is that we have to get a check on these cars at the border. It will cost money – a fraction of what the government throws away on tax bills for the richest, but it will cost money. We require that, and we also demand that those who benefit from the cheap transport – that is. carriers, transport companies, transport buyers – shall be liable to penalties and penalties when it is found that they have paid too little, or have speculated about having too cheap transport. What does the Council of State think of those measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e578	I think we need to have a number of measures if we are to have effective control and supervision on the Norwegian road, including heavy goods vehicles. This means, for example: are significantly more frequent controls of winter tyres and chains on the border, and customs now cooperate more closely with the State Road Service in order to enable them to carry out that type of controls. That means that when the car stops for customs clearance, we get checked anyway. The problem is that it has proved to be bigger challenges than that, so we have to control more places than just on the border. Take, for example: the driving and sleeping time characteristics. For a driver who has been in Norway for one week, it is decisive that we can also stop the running gear at any point in Norway, make sure that one keeps running and sleeping time, and that one is not affected by alcohol, which means that we have effective control in all parts of the country. We're going to keep escalating, and we're going to do it in conjunction with the transport industry and the purchasers of transport services. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e585	The number is out. Kirsti Leirtrö – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e592	This is a serious matter. Thousands of foreign car combinations collided with drivers on Norwegian roads last year. In 80 p.m. of the cases, the driver was responsible. We in the Labour Party have proposed a number of measures – which have been voted down – for a more serious transport sector. We believe it must be so strict that those who come here have everything in order for Norwegian relations. In addition, the share of goods on the road has increased and will increase. We have residents who do not dare to drive on our roads, and the transfer of goods to the track is cancelled. The transport industry wants Nordic cooperation, and it's urgent. What kind of measures can bring lasting effect is the government planning now — not least in cooperation with the countries around us?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e599	There are a number of actions. One of them is that Norway has worked for a long time to introduce winter skills requirements – including across the EU – that allow drivers running into Norway with goods from Europe, which is totally dependent on Norway, to be more competent to run on our roads. It's coming. That's good. It's an important and correct step. Sharpening tyre equipment requirements is another. The general policy we are implementing is, in fact, to keep up with our better – several middle parts and better developed – also reduces the risk of meeting accidents, which is the main challenge for heavy car transport. All of us who work on this have probably the common layer that we really need to find several different actions in many parts of the transport sector in order to close down, and the government is going to contribute to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e607	Siv Mossleth - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e612	The fright is that someone should meet a trailer across. We in Stortinget have a zero vision, a vision if no one killed or seriously injured in traffic. When foreign heavy goods transporters have two to three times the risk of accidents than Norwegian drivers, we think it is very important to have experience and expertise in driving on Norwegian winter roads. We would like to take Europe as a whole, but I think the most important thing now is to stop drivers without competence on the Norwegian – and the Norwegian – winter roads. We don't have time to wait for the whole of Europe. We have the difficult driving conditions and a lot of loads, so we need to get that in place in Norway right away. And I think, what has been done to enforce the responsibility of transport buyers?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e617	Transport buyers have a look-to-see obligation to comply with the carriers from which they deliver. I have recently had several meetings with many of the people who buy transport services. They point to several things that they can do, and will do, to strengthen their own control of it. However, we know that part of the transport service operating in Norway does not have a source in Norway. She is based on the fact that Norway is a country that needs trade to get the country to go around. We import many of the goods we need in the day to day. That means there are foreign carriers coming in. Therefore, the legislative design that we are now bringing to the EU, the demands that we make to the EU, is a significant contribution to increasing the competence of drivers who are going to Norway. Then a continuation of the checks, we have to carry out effective, risk-based supervision all the time, so that we can stop those vehicles that don't have anything to do on Norwegian winter roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e624	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e629	We have hard things to tell; we need more time to tell what's on our hearts. It said a child with experience that we just met. My question goes to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs. The #heierna campaign believes that employees are important for quality. The children’s ombudsman believes it is important, non-profit institutions and the children themselves believe the same. Several employees are needed. ‘I understand that they want more employees. But the government will continue to give priority to quality, foster home and prevention." It was an Erna Solberg quotation. This is impossible to understand in any other way than that more employees do not provide quality, and thus the Prime Minister is on a collision course with the children, the Children's Ombudsman and the #heierna campaign. Do the government councils for children agree with the prime minister or with the children, non-profit organisations, the Children's Ombudsman and the #heierna campaign?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e639	Let me first thank you for a very important question from the representative Henriksen. I have a great commitment to vulnerable children, and child protection is extremely important to meet them in a good way and not least to prevent, so that families can ensure safe growth. I have registered that the Labour Party has had a great commitment to child protection and has also promoted its own proposal for a representative. I am very pleased about that, and I can promise the representative here and now that many of the proposals that the Workers' Party is promoting will be followed up by the government. I am also pleased that many more employees have been involved in child protection in recent years. From 2013 to 2017, there were 1,150 employees in child protection. I think it's important for more employees, and there was a higher growth under this government than it was under the previous government. What we've done has been to give the municipalities room to be able to hire. I sincerely believe that the municipalities themselves know best whether it is an additional health care provider or an additional child protection employee who is most important to prioritise right there and then. We both believe that this responsibility is still the responsibility of the municipalities. The representative refers to the reform of competences and the reform we have in the field of child protection. We are going to send a new Children's Protection Act to the hearing in a very short time. There I am just going to stress that one should strengthen competence, and that one should also make some organisational changes that I think will help one come in earlier and get better prevention efforts. The fact that local government, for example, getting a better overview of the situation in their local child protection service, I think it is extremely important for the priorities they do. And then we're going to be in with the County Council in conversation with the municipal administration and be close and follow up if there's a serious situation in the municipality in question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e650	I quote from the Christian People's Party website where it says: ‘The most important quality in kindergartens is that there are enough adults to care for the children.’ And last year, the Christian People's Party provided a budget victory for increased quality in school, with the introduction of a teacher's norm. But the Christian People's Party will not have a norm for the most vulnerable among us, the ones that child protection is supposed to help. So we can establish that the Christian People's Party in government believes that the proportion of employees is important in school, in kindergarten and for the children who are there, but not for the most vulnerable children in child protection. Let me, for once, establish the rewriting of reality by the government. The Manning Code was introduced by the Stoltenberg Government. The right-wing government has not put on the table a single penny for municipal child protection posts in any budget until now. What has given money to a few more child protection positions is the Christian People's Party in opposition. Now they've negotiated to power, and then this has disappeared. Can the Council of States confirm that this is the reality?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e664	Let me first stress that I am just saying that the number of employees has a meaning, and that I am glad that there is a stronger increase in the number of employees in child protection under this government than it was when the Workers' Party was running. But I also have to say – if it is allowed to say so – that it is directly premature for the Workers' Party to go so high in terms of recruitment standards. If one reads the proposal for a representative of the Workers' Party, and I have been an opposition politician for eight to nine years, promoting various proposals, it says: ‘Instructive criteria for the standard of maintenance in the Child Welfare Service should be investigated.’ There can't be any more guards. But that's precisely because a standard of child protection personnel will not be equally accurate. Should one go by the number of inhabitants in the municipality? It's going to be demanding, because we know that there are different living conditions in different municipalities. Should one go by number of cases? It's demanding, because we just want more concerns to come up and more issues on the table, and if you do, it'll be an incentive for municipalities to bring down the number of concerns. We're occupied with manning, but we'll solve it in a different way than the Workers' Party wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e676	There will be follow-up questions – first Kari Henriksen.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e681	So it is that jobs have been put in place despite this government, and not because of it. We need more time, say the most vulnerable children, the #heians, the Children's Ombudsman and the employees. It understood the Christian People's Party when they were in opposition, but in the negotiations on government power, the Christian People's Party has now negotiated away the bet, and the Right and Advance Party seem to have obtained a veto right in this matter. The Christian People's Party believes that a standard is important for children in school and a certain number of adults for children in kindergarten. But for the most vulnerable children among us, that's not necessary. Why?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e690	Let me again stress that there has been a higher growth in the number of employees in child protection under this government because the municipalities have prioritised it. It's because the municipalities are closest and know what the situation in each municipality is like. It's not like I can sit in Oslo as Minister of Children and know exactly what the situation is like in each municipality. That's why I, believe me, and at least most of the parties here agree that the municipalities are closest and know best what to prioritize. We are also going to work to secure more employees in the future, but I want to return the question to the Workers' Party. When they do not support a standard of manpower in their proposal and challenge me as to why we would not be in favour of it, I will challenge you back. What should be the basis for that standard of navigation? Is that the number of inhabitants, are there matters? It won't be accurate enough. That is why I am committed to giving the municipalities good space, strengthening the municipalities and trusting that they are doing the right priorities for better prevention and better child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e698	That question has to be answered on a later occasion, for the next follow-up question is from Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e703	Before the weekend, I received a refusal of grey paper from the Council of State after I had wanted him to come to Stortinget and tell them how he intended to address the major challenges in our child protection institutions, especially after the very fresh alarming report from the Health Authority where the county officials have revealed that it is over 60 p.m. Crimes in our child protection institutions – 60 percent! It is nice that the Council of State can come here now and tell us a little about how he intends to deal with it. But what also bothers me in the answer I received from the council in writing was that he did not think it was problematic that there was such a big difference between what the new report shows, 60 pst. offences, and Bufdir's recent report, with no crime. No one! How's it going? So I have two questions: how in the world are we going to deal with the big problems that the latest report found, with 60 pst. deviation? But also, how can the Council of State make sure that Bufdir has a proper overview of the situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e712	The President will recall that the question of follow-up will follow up on the main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e717	But I think this is a very important question, so I'd like to answer it. For this, children who are in an extremely vulnerable situation, so providing a good follow-up service to the children who are going to be in an institution – which fortunately is only a small proportion of those who are in child protection – seem to me to be very important. That is why I am pleased with the representative's commitment, both in writing and orally. But first let me correct: it was 60 of the institutions that were picked out after a risk assessment. Of all — several hundred — institutions that are in the country, a limited sample was collected, precisely because a fear that there could be a risk that there was anomalies there, and it is true that deviations were detected in 60 pst. by them. I think that is unacceptable. That is why we are very clear – and I would like to make it quite clear – that in institutions where deviations are detected, the deviations are to be close as soon as possible, and we are going to follow this up. Much of it is long-term, but we have already implemented many measures in the light of the deviations and failures that one has seen in the past, and we are also going to follow up the report that has come.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e724	Freddy André Supreme Court – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e729	We need enough staff to see and help every child in child protection. Government council Ruppstad often refers to the level of competence of employees in their answers about the lack of staff, and we all agree that it is fine with continuing training, but the employees themselves say that it helps very little when child protection is not able to maintain competence. It's so tough work, it's a bad conscience because you don't have time to help those who need it, and so much wear and tear that studies show that almost a third of the work ends in a year. They don't have time to use their skills when they have 30-40 children to be responsible for, with each of their families, and they stop. In the Children's Protection Service in Halden, for example, which I visited a little while ago, the employees said that they do not have time to send the employees to a follow-up training course in Oslo because it burns at work at home. Why does the Council of State not see this?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e736	Let me first point out that when I point out that increased staffing is important, and that I am glad that there has been an increase in staffing under this government, it is precisely because I point out that it is also the responsibility of the municipalities, and I am happy that they take that responsibility. We've given the municipalities a good economy – although municipal politicians will probably never nod at all to it – for this year alone, there's an increase of 2.4 billion. kr in free income. And they've used the funds to prioritize child protection, and I'm glad. But then I say that on the part of the state, we are committed to setting standards of competence, I know that the representative is also concerned about, and proposes that it be introduced. We want that to happen. We're committed to making the organisational changes that we think will improve child protection. What worries me is, for example, that there is a turnover of up to 30 pst. in the protection of children. We can't have it like that. It's demanding when so many end up so fast, and I think it, among other things. is about getting even better education, but also staffing, which the representative is concerned about.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e743	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e748	My question goes to the Minister for Climate and Environment. We have two types of greenhouse gas emissions, the natural ones, that are created through biological processes, and the fossils, that are created through man-made processes to create energy. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change clearly states that we do not achieve climate objectives without capture and storage of CO 2. Then we need the industrial processes and methods of capture and storage, but we also need to apply the natural methods of capture and storage. We simply don't achieve the climate goals without it. Central research communities also point out that care, forest planting and active forest management are the key to success. At the same time, the Left used large parts of its national meeting to talk about the Central Party and the Central Party's climate policy. Interestingly, it comes from a party that is unable to put in place solutions to convert the transport of nutrients, which cannot proceed with the industrial capture and storage of CO 2, which in the current year's budget has no commitment to Norwegian forest planting and husbandry, which, while we are talking about it, has helped to make the woodworking company Arbor, in Northernland, struggling with raw material access due to uncritical protection of forests, and which has not received the necessary CO 2 compensation for Saugbruks in Halden as of today. The question to the Council of State will then be whether he believes that increasing standing biomass contributes to increased CO 2 binding and capture, and if yes, how will the Council of State contribute to this?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e773	We're going to continue with the policy we have. What is important is that one in more and more areas now sees that climate action also drives industrial development. In the forest industry, one sees in particular that, with the biofuel inclusion requirement, predictability has been achieved, which means that one now has many more actors who are on the way to investing in the production of advanced biofuels in Norway, which also improves the competitive conditions of the forest industry, by being able to sell not only stocks but also twigs and others, which are a supplement to making use of this as well. This is one area in which we are involved in promoting a more profitable forest industry. At the same time, it is to use the tree more — including as a building material. This is both on the Jeløya platform and also on the Granavolden platform as a measure. So developing better projects to also make more use of the tree is going to be important in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e782	I am pleased that the Council of State will contribute to increased profitability in the wood industry. On the Left's website, it says: ‘Norway has natural advantages through large sea areas, a lot of forests and long agricultural traditions throughout the country. In order to realise the green shift, we need to achieve an increased and sustainable use of biological resources." NIBIO has suggested that between 15 and 20 pst. increasing the maximum within sustainable frameworks. The UN believes that it is not possible to address climate challenges without the use of forest biomass. Everything suggests that we need to increase the use of forest resources in order to make the transition that our emission targets require. At the same time, the government has taken a restrictive line of protection in Norwegian forestry and is actively pursuing a target of 10 pst. protection. Does the Council agree that there may be a contradiction in the target of 10 pst? the protection of forests and the objective of increased carbon bonding in the forest?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e795	There's no contradiction at all. We have to achieve several things at the same time. We also need to safeguard biodiversity in Norway. One of the major challenges is the loss of nature internationally — not just global warming. We have most of the red-listed species in the forest. Therefore, we also need to take more care of the forest in Norway. So the protection measure of 10 pst. It's lying there, and we're driving it forward with more force than ever before. At the same time, we have to be able to exploit the forest, as I said in my previous post. We hope to reach an agreement with the EU on common targets for emission reductions in 2030 – that we will get it in place, also with a case for the Stortinget in the spring. In our reference path, as we report, we also add that we can have a significant increase in forest management in Norway without causing us to book emissions. Today, about 11 million cubic meters are mowed. The possibility will be up to 15 million, 16 million cubic meters.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e802	We're going to move on to the next, and the last, main questions in the oral question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e807	My question also goes to the Minister for Climate and Environment. Norwegian waste management, NOAH, has had a landfill since 1993 for the treatment and storage of particularly hazardous inorganic waste in the former limestone quarry on Lang Island outside Holmestrand. It has long been known that this landfill is soon full. The NOAH requested to establish a new landfill for hazardous waste in the valley mines in Porsgrund municipality, but the plans were rejected in cash by Porsgrund City Council as early as March 2015. In addition to this, there is an alternative from the Bergmeister Raudsand AS. However, the question is now completely unresolved. The time period for the length of Lang Island is getting even closer to the end, and there is no doubt that the conflict around this theme is now intensifying as the Lang Island becomes filled. To Varden on 17 February, Mr Carl-Erik Grimstad said the following: «He» – i.e. Minister of Climate and Environment Ola Elvestuen, then representative of the big business – «has stood in Brevik and said that we should not have this deposit. If he does not get through, the Left loses all credibility in climate and environmental policy.’ And he follows up in the Evening Post on March 10, where he actually says that the Left should leave the government if one has to open up to old-fashioned landfill methods. I think Grimstad well describes the general frustration, the curse and, in part, the despair that lies in that matter. When the last weekend left had its national meeting, the landfill was mentioned in Trine Skei Grande's speech, where we got the impression that she said no to old-fashioned mining and old-fashioned landfills. My question to the Minister for Climate and Environment is therefore: does a state impose on local democracy, in other words against their will, to establish a gigantic landfill for hazardous waste in the old limestone mines in Norway with the NOAH process, which was established in the 1990s, a modern or an old-fashioned landfill?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e823	Whether it's modern or old-fashioned – I think the quality of the plans that are good. That's what the Environment Directorate says, and everyone says it. What is the question – which I also said before 2017 – is that there is no reason to override a municipality if you have an alternative. That's where the question is. No decision has been made on the state level or not. What we need to do is look a lot wider on how to treat hazardous waste in the years to come. So this is about, as we write on both the Jeløya platform and the Granavolden platform, that we're going to have an investigation into how we can reduce the amount of hazardous waste. Much of what goes to Lang Island today is linked to Kronos Titan and sulphuric acid deposited and then neutralised along with fly ash produced in Norway and internationally. So here you have to look at how it's necessary to deposit, or whether it can be done in other ways. In addition, 200 to 250 enterprises have hazardous waste, which is also landfilled on the island of Lang Island. Whether this is landfilled because it is most cost-effective, or whether there are no alternatives today, it is difficult to say. My starting point is that we have to look at the whole: how are we going to treat hazardous waste in Norway? That's the main problem we have now. And then we have to make concrete decisions about where we're finally going to have a landfill. That there will be a need for landfill even though we can reduce the amount, I think it's hard to avoid. Today, measures have been taken in Lang Island to allow the landfill to reach 2024–2025, so there is no doubt that we have a short period of time to do a fairly comprehensive job.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e830	I share the view that there is a short time left, and that something has to be done. I also agree with what the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment says about what action needs to be taken or assessed in relation to this. But it's interesting to follow up on asking, what's done? It is now four years since Porsgrund city council said very clearly no to the plans of the NOAH for the valley mines in Brevik. What has the government done afterwards? What contact has the Minister for Climate and Environment or others in the government had with the 250 companies that are currently landfilling hazardous waste in Lang Island? What has been done with regard to the main concerns related to fly ash, heavy metal extraction, Kronos Titan sulphuric acid, etc.? What has the government done to minimise the need to landfill hazardous waste? There is no doubt that a large national landfill and the continuation of this kind in the 1990s must be seen as an old-fashioned method. It will be very interesting if the Minister of Climate and Environment can explain to the Storting what the government has done in these four years, when a very clear and clear one has shown that the plans of the NOAH in Brevik were not accepted by Porsgrön municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e837	I can't explain what's done until I got into this position myself, but what's done while I've been here is that you've moved on with the Brevik plan program. There has also been an impact assessment and one has received consultation opinions in relation to it. Otherwise, I myself have been visiting both Kronos Titan, Lang Island and Brevik. We have also met with both NOAH and actors from the Nesset municipality in connection with what is happening in More and Romesdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e842	There will be follow-up questions – first Terje Aasland.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e847	It is interesting to know where the Minister for Climate and Environment has been. But it's even more interesting to know what he's experienced on those visits. With the experience and visits as the basis, is it that he will think that he can reduce the need for landfill, uncouple the problem with acid and ash and find more environmentally friendly and time-consuming solutions to what is really a major national problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e852	I'm going to follow up on the three points that lie on the Granavolden platform. One is to see if we can reduce the amount of hazardous waste. The second is that we're going to be completely in front of the development of the circular economy in Norway. The third is that we need to ensure that we have sufficient landfill capacity for hazardous waste. How to do that, I have to get back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e857	The oral question procedure is now over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e871	There will be some changes to the set-up questionnaire, and in this respect the President will refer to the electronic question list. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative of Åsunn Lyngedal to the Minister for Finance, has been transferred to the Minister for Justice and Immigration who is directing him. Question 3, from the representative Hulda Holtvedt to the Minister for Industry, has been withdrawn. Question 7, by Mr Eirik Sivertsen to the Minister for Defence, will be answered by the Minister for Justice and Immigration on behalf of the Minister for Defence, who has been removed. Question 9, from the representative Steinar Ness to the Minister for Fisheries, will be answered by the Minister for Oil and Energy on behalf of the Minister for Fisheries, who has been removed. The question will be raised by the representative of Liv Signe Navarsete.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e889	This question, from the representative of Åsunn Lyngedal to the Minister of Finance, has been transferred to the Minister of Justice and Immigration who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e894	‘More people point out that the effective recovery system for defaulted debt in Norway is a contributing factor in the explosive growth of consumer loans. How does the Council of State feel about refusing to use the debtor for debt recovery by actors who do not comply with the regulation on requirements for the lending practices of financial undertakings for consumer loans?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e901	The regulation to which the representative refers was adopted on 12 February 2019 and its purpose is to mitigate the risk posed by the increasing consumption debt of Norwegian households to the Norwegian economy. The regulation imposes on banks public-law obligations in the interests of the economy of Norwegian society. The regulation does not regulate rights and obligations between banks and customers. Therefore, breach of the regulation will not invalidate loan agreements or invalidate claims. With regard to the role of the approval authority, it is essential for a well-functioning credit market for the creditor to be subject to enforcement by the approval authorities. Those providing goods or services on credit, or lending money, must be able to rely on payment, if necessary through enforcement of the requirement. Enforcement may be carried out only through the competent authorities. Therefore, those entitled must be able to use the approval authorities, provided that the conditions laid down by the law are met. This also applies to consumer lending banks. The contractual relationship between consumer loan banks and customers is governed by the Financial Contracts Act. It follows from Section 46(b) of the Financial Contracts Act that the creditor must assess the creditworthiness of the consumer before the conclusion of the contract. If the creditor has to assume that the financial capacity or other conditions on the part of the consumer indicate that he should seriously consider refraining from taking up the credit or from carrying out the credit agreement, the consumer shall be informed thereof. If the consumer wishes to enter into a contract despite the advice not to do so, he or she shall confirm by signature that he or she is aware that the creditor has refused the credit admission in writing and orally. In the event of a breach of the obligation to withdraw, the consumer's obligations may be relaxed if reasonable. The consultation note on new Financial Contracts Act proposes that credit providers be required to refrain from granting credit if the credit ratings indicate that the customer is unlikely to meet the financial obligations under the agreement. The new Financial Contracts Act is currently under discussion in the Department, and these are questions that I will therefore come back to then.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e912	The background to the question is that the supervision of the Financial Supervisory Authority last spring, in June, showed that 36 pst. all consumption loans are provided without the Bank making a sound assessment of whether they have a repayable borrower. The loan does not comply with what has now become the regulation of 12 February but has access to a well-funded public collection system, which takes out both assets and wages to the debtor. So I would like the Council of State to reflect on how appropriate it is for the police to use resources to collect loans that should never have been given.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e923	I think it might be nice to distinguish two important things here. The Namsman and the Nams are a civilized way of collecting money. That is, if the claim is legitimate, we would like it to go through the namsman, for who else would actually have collected this money? What the representative might think about is that the requirement itself should be invalid if you have broken rules. It's a matter that falls under the Financial Contracts Act, to which we come back, and which is being addressed now. The regulation to which reference is made has a more socio-economic justification, while the Financial Contracts Act regulates the relationship between the granting of credit and the receiving of credit. There's a work going on – what to say – tightening up the requirements of the creditor. And as I mentioned, in connection with the consultation note, there is a proposal there that we consider.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e928	The most important thing for the consumer is not necessarily the law governing it. But it's good to hear that the Financial Contracts Act will strengthen the requirement for the lenders, because we know that loans are given to people who have no chance of repaying it, and who often have both physical and mental disease plagues, unfortunately. It's a situation where the police need all their resources to a great deal, so the use of the valet's resources in these matters is challenging, I think.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e935	There's two questions in there. One is whether or not it's the police who's going to have the role of a namsman or not. I think it makes a lot of sense that we have a public law enforcement system. If the requirement is legitimate and enforcement is to be initiated, it is to have a public order a civilised way to proceed in order to recover the claim. The alternative could have been a lot worse. So having a reputable authority I think makes sense. But it is important to separate that question from whether the requirement is legitimate. I think that is an interesting question, but I think it is useful to separate it from the question of the tax authority. We can regulate the legitimacy of the requirement by means of the Financial Contracts Act, which has been proposed by the government to curb the growth of consumer loans, and more proposals will be made.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e945	‘According to Health South-East, the closure of Ullevål Hospital will pay off because functions currently available in both the Rikshospitale and Ullevål can be removed. It's said that you can save $500 million. $ because you want to need 500-600 fewer employees if you want to work together. According to the Medical Association, even a reduction of 30 shifts is optimistic – that is, over 100 mills and 100 mills. krones. What functions do the Council of State consider superfluous at Oslo University Hospital, which will require 500-600 fewer employees if Ullevål is laid down?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e952	Health South-East is now working to realize the target picture set for the development of Oslo University Hospital. Today's hospital building on Ullevål is old, and large parts are unsuitable for modern hospital activities. Buildings on Ullevål are therefore planned to be replaced by new buildings on Aker and Gaustad, where it is designed to bring together regional hospital functions in one place. Oslo University Hospital currently has two hospitals with regional functions with a distance of just under two kilometres. For many disciplines, this requires double shiftwork, double-up with special resources and double-up with departments and expensive equipment. I have been informed that when Oslo University Hospital has calculated the profit in collecting regional and national functions, 600 fewer annual works have been added when account has been taken of future needs for personnel. The reduction in annual work is due to a reduction in the need for shiftwork, transport and administrative staff when subject areas shared today are grouped together in one place. A more efficient operation in the new buildings has also been envisaged, including: at a more optimal size of the bed beds. Health South-East plans for Oslo University Hospital do not involve the closure of functions or the provision of services to the population. The investment plans will provide patients, employees and related to modern hospital buildings — and facilitate the better use of scarce resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e963	The construction plans have led to the partial financing of the new building by improving the efficiency of operations at the forefront of the development, which will generate annual surpluses of several hundred million kroner. Looking at the experiences of Oslo University Hospital in the last ten years, they show that the corresponding efficiency targets have not been achieved, and that increased excesses come from other things than the fact that hospital operations have been more effective. The question is how the Minister of Health can be so sure that one will achieve such an efficiency without decommissioning functions, when one has not done so before. And what are the consequences for the project if the efficiency gain is not achieved?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e968	The representative could have asked that question in relation to each hospital extension that has taken place in Norway since the state assumed responsibility for the hospitals. My general answer is that one of course cannot have any other conditions for investment in a hospital in Oslo than that one has, for example. in Stavanger, in Nordmøre and Romsdal or elsewhere in Norway. Proportionately, the investments in Oslo are relatively similar to those in Stavanger. An efficiency requirement is also implemented in advance. You also have to look at the real numbers. Oslo University Hospital has an income budget of 24 billion. kr, and part of the efficiency requirements means that one has to increase efficiency by 45 million. kr annually. I don't think that's impossible.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e975	It is true that one must not have other conditions in Oslo, but on the other hand one must also learn from faults, and in More and Romesdal functions are dropped – in rehabilitation, maternity wards and in mental health protection. Many of the criticisms of the Oslo process are also about the fact that one has decided for the plots before one has created a plan of operations describing which tasks the hospital should resolve and which treatment should be provided. There's one question that one still doesn't have the answer to, in spite of that. That's how you can estimate the amount of money you can save by collecting an activity when you don't create such an activity plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e982	The choice of plots as such does not have a significant impact on the very issue that the representative is now addressing, as long as one accepts the premise that one should have one regional hospital in Oslo. Then there is a question of the characteristics of the plot and the buildings by collecting the regional hospital on the Ullevål or Gaustad plot. One will be given a further explanation of the questions raised by the Governing Board meeting in June. But when you look at the properties of the plot and the buildings, all the numbers we have now indicate that it's the Gaustad Santa that's the most suitable. But the question of the different functional distributions is unaffected by the choice of plots.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e994	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1002	«In a nursing home in Nittedal lives a 36-year-old man. He's got locked-in syndrome. This was due to a blow 8 years ago. The man has shown an incredible willingness to train and has experienced enormous progress since he started training. The plan is transition to owner-occupied dwellings. Nevertheless, he does not receive support for training aids, because he is temporarily living in a nursing home. Does the Council of State believe it is right that the patient’s residence status should be essential for them to receive training aids under the Law on People’s Security?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1009	The representative Moflag indicates that a man has not received support for training aids because he is temporarily living in a nursing home. It is not quite clear whether he has applied for the residence of work and welfare and has received a refusal, or what training aids are involved. Nor does it show which tools he has received from the municipality for use while he is at the hospital. It is a little difficult to comment on the matter with so few information. On a general basis, I can inform you that responsibility for the provision of facilities is in line with the sectoral responsibility principle. The municipality is responsible for training aids in the form of rehabilitation or rehabilitation where the purpose is to train and maintain functions. This applies regardless of whether you are staying at an institution or living at home. While staying at an institution, the municipality has, with some exceptions, the responsibility for the means necessary to provide the care normally provided. This also applies to facilities which can be used by several institutional residents and which are not individually adapted for personal use. The responsibility of the State of Labour and Welfare for assistance under the Law on Social Security is limited to aids specifically developed to – and directly suitable for — compensate for permanent disability. The floor also covers aids that are suitable and necessary to be used at home, e.g. Lifts and hoists. At the institution, the employment and welfare seat is only responsible for personal aids, such as: hearing aids. When the time of outsourcing is completed, the department may also grant facilities to be used after outsourcing, if training is required in use. The seat of employment and welfare may also provide activity aids to enable disabled persons to participate in physical activity. If you cannot use such tools, you can get tools specially developed to activate the motion apparatus. However, this scheme is limited to training aids in the form of habilitation and rehabilitation, for which the municipality is responsible. The representative asks whether the status of residence should be decisive. The status of residence, the type of assistance and the purpose for which it is to be used are governing whether it is the municipality or the public interest at the seat of employment and welfare that is responsible for providing the assistance. If the main purpose of rehabilitation or rehabilitation is rehabilitation, it is the municipality that is responsible under the sectoral liability principle.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1024	It's limited how much information you get on seven lines in a question time question. This is an individual aid, it is quite specific about Innowalk, which means that this person can actually be active after many years without any possibility of doing so. And it's about a person who's going into the owner-occupancy, but who lives in a nursing home, because it's the offer that's best available from the municipality today. This is about the interaction between the state and the municipality. How does the Council of State think that we should ensure that the Husbanken, Nav, specialist health services and the municipality cooperate on the possibility for each person to realise his potential after accident and illness? The municipality tells me that they feel like they're putting their heads in the wall.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1031	It does not show whether you have applied for a discount or what you have applied for, so it is again difficult to comment on it. But I think it is important to keep the sectoral responsibility principle. As former rapporteur, the representative of Moflag knows the responsibility of the municipality, and it is important that the municipality is responsible for its inhabitants and that it is responsible for what is going on in rehabilitation and rehabilitation. But I think maybe the question also makes visible that there is a great potential for improvement in the resource area in general. The government brought down a selection to view the assistive technology area. The sample made a number of suggestions for improvements and simplifications that would both improve user accessibility and improve their administration. The government announced that we wanted to go further with several of the proposals, but the Storting decided, unfortunately, to put the entire sample report in the drawer. I'm the first to regret that happened, because I think it's a great potential for improvement in the whole area.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1036	The feedback I have received on this particular case is that you have been told that you can get a temporary test, but that you cannot expect to get this on a permanent basis. You feel like you're equidistant. I hear that the Council of State agrees that this can be confusing for users, and that is the problem – that you feel that you do not get help from either the one or the other. Finally, I would like to ask the Council of State whether she will be willing to review this in order to ensure that the individual is seen, and that its potential for disease and injury is released, and to ensure a better interaction between local authorities, specialist health services and other departments when it comes to the aid of people in a situation such as this man, who has suffered a stroke and has received a 'locked-in syndrome'.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1043	I take this as a very good signal that the Storting now wants to take the sample report out of the drawer again. The government was very clear that we wanted to go on with several of the proposals and explore how we could improve and simplify the resource area, while preserving the rights of users. In fact, the size also said no so that we were not even allowed to investigate further. But this I take as a very good signal that there is a will in Stortinget to actually look at the resource area. There is today a great potential for improvement in both who is responsible and how this should be organised in a way that is better for users and better for the public that is to manage it. So yes, I'm willing to look at it. I wanted to do it earlier, too, but got to put my foot down for it. But I take this as a very good sign that we can now look at this area again, and then, of course, I will take the initiative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1053	‘Norwegian oil and gas industries have been a spearhead for high competence and proper working conditions. Trustees in the sector are now notifying that rentals with low job rates are continuing. This will over time undermine both the competence of the sector, HMS and the attractiveness of the industry to Norwegian youth. Does the Council of State see the link between working conditions and industrial competence, and will the Council of State do something to stop the spread of rentals with short contracts and low percentages?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1060	It is easy to imagine that good and predictable working conditions will attract good candidates with the right skills, and in a larger image also ensure productivity, stability, security, cooperation and recruitment. This is true in most industries, not just this one. There is a broad consensus that fixed, direct employment, with decent working conditions, must be the general rule in Norwegian working life. I also believe there is a broad consensus that extensive use of rentals for the same reason is not desirable, either in the petroleum sector. Fortunately, working conditions and the level of HMS in the petroleum sector are well above good and companies are serious. My specific responsibilities for this sector are specifically linked to the supervision of HMS through the Petroleum Control Authority. Petroleum monitoring shows that they have seen an increase in the use of rentals in some areas of the sector. Through their supervision, they have been informed that, among other things: may be the result of the conversion process through which the petroleum industry has undergone and which has led to a significant downturn in some operators. When an increase in activity is seen, companies have had problems recruiting workers with the relevant skills. The industry has also developed over time new activity management models, according to the Petroleum Control Authority, which are planned for major fluctuations in activity, resulting in reduced predictability for suppliers in view of manning needs. Petroleum supervision is concerned with following up rentals in such a way that there are no negative impacts on health, the environment and safety. In the case of short contracts and low job rates, legislative changes have recently entered into force. There is no prohibition on low job rates, but the agreed employment rate must be real. The termination fraction may not be lower than that for which the employee is planned by the employer at the time of the contract. I assume that the rules are being followed, and that the intention of the changes in the rules is not undermined by creative solutions or mere circumvention. The new rules have only worked for a little over two months. As previously notified, the government is also reviewing the enforcement of the rental rules with a view to measures to prevent illegal rental. However, it is far too early to conclude that further measures are needed in the area of renting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1077	The Council of State points out that predictability is important in order to attract the necessary skills in any industry. It's impossible to disagree with that. But we know how important it is when young people are going to choose a course of education, that predictability is needed, and not least predictability in order to get a job, an orderly job, a regular working hours and a full job. When much has been left to the law and much has been left to the contract work, it is important that all the social partners follow up, and I would like to be given a clearer signal or could say a little more about the job that is going on.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1082	I'm a little uncertain about what the representative really asked. But there is no doubt that the transformation that the oil sector has undergone has been incredibly demanding, with large reductions over a long period of time. Approximately 50,000 lost their job as a result of the oil price drop, persons employed in oil industry jobs. Now it's rise times, and we also hear, as I said in my first answer, that many of the companies are struggling to reach people. What's also important to remember is that when the oil price fall was a fact, you looked at, "Who's losing the job?" There were very many young people who lost their jobs in the oil industry. The majority of young people under 30 in Rogaland who lost their jobs had not even completed high school. Making sure that more young people now complete high school, get their letter in order before they start working, is extremely important. Because you know you lose your job when you're young and you're not educated, you're vulnerable. If you lose your job as a good adult without education, you're even more vulnerable.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1089	We all know that the fall in the oil price hit many very hard. I am very happy that you have increasing activity, which means that many of those who stood without a job come back to work. But I want to say that when you now have to do things differently from the oil and gas industry – cheaper, more efficient, more sensible – to cut costs, you get to bet on technology. It may not be the employment and the employment rate of each employee to help reduce costs. We need to take care of the law and the contract work, and then you get to cut costs in other areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1094	I agree that a cost cut should not affect health, the environment and safety. The employer has a responsibility to ensure that everything related to the HMS is followed. Of course, it is not up to the individual employee to take care of this by himself. The government now issued a major communication on health, environment and safety on Norwegian pedestal last year, where we announced more measures to improve this. The size joined the HMS message. Then it is important to stress that the industry itself is responsible for the high level of safety. We have a high level of safety on the Norwegian base. I also feel that the industry is concerned about securing it in the time that comes. I feel confident that now as the industry needs people, they will also be concerned about recruiting people with good skills and ensuring that those they recruit, also acquire good competence, to meet both the innovation needs and the security needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1104	‘In 2019, The Stortinget decided to reverse the period of one’s permit until 26 weeks. On the same night as the Stortinget debated this, I received a letter from the directors of Leirvik AS, Kværner Stord, Westcon Yards, Advantec GE, Wärtsilä and industrial cluster Sunnhordland, which says in particular: "Predictable law on leave, with the continuation of today's system, is one of the most important conditions needed by the industry to maintain competitiveness." Will the Council of State listen to the industrial environment in Sunnhordland before the presentation of the revised national budget?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1111	In the last two years, employment has increased over the period considered, and the number of unemployed has decreased throughout the country in almost all sectors. Unemployment has not been lower in ten years, and in this situation we need to set up the instruments of labour market policy to increase labour supply. Permitting rules must also apply. We have a long experience of adapting the permitting legislation to the labour market situation, and therefore, in line with better economic prospects, from this year on we have reversed the extension of the legislation that we carried out after the oil price drop in 2014. When a growing number of enterprises experience recruitment problems, it is unfortunate that skilled labour is running out over a long period of time. It weakens labour market mobility, and various analyses and studies show that the use of leghold traps both overall and in weeks decreases when the rules are tightened. Several remain employed. To the extent that more people are resigned, the labour force that can go to other sectors of growth and that also reports labour shortages. However, the government is following developments in the labour market closely and will also assess the establishment of labour market policies, including: in the light of the economic outlook. We will also do that in advance of the revised national budget in ours.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1122	It is a goal that the supplier industry is working to get more bones to stand on. The risk associated with deliveries related to price, cost and implementation is higher in areas where the industry has not delivered before. Does the Council of State see the possibility of falling back on the legislation of permitation as an important noise cushion for industry in order to be able to involve them in their competence when entering new areas, a noise cushion that reduces the risk and lowers the threshold of conversion work in each enterprise? If the company has to pay for the cancellation, we will at least not be converted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1127	As I said in my first answer, the permitting code is something that has been adjusted up and down in line with the economic cycle. It's always been like that, and it's also natural to do that. When the government proposed to extend the permit code after the oil price fall, it was a controversial measure. It was a measure taken by the government to give the parties to the wage settlement a handshake. Initially, LO and eventually the NHO wanted it, but there were no other social partners who thought this was the right action to take. But we did it as a handshake in a demanding paycheck. Now progress is in the right direction, it's a good labour market. There are also many other governments that have contributed to helping with the need for conversion. We have strengthened BIO funds, BIA funds, industrial research and innovation, etc. We also see that there is a significant shift now along the coast and also in several of the companies to which the representative refers, such as: has taken place through the other measures put in place by the government to facilitate the need for conversion.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1134	Thank you very much for your answer. I'm watching an opening. But the Council of State has a very macro-economic approach to this. Is it possible for the Council of State to assume that some kind of exemption from this normal rule or a special scheme for enterprises in a particularly difficult situation can be granted? I'm thinking of differentiation from industry or geography, and I'm thinking in particular of Leirvik AS's special competence in large aluminium structures, which is really environmentally friendly and has a future going on. The company has added 300, and as the director says in a conversation with me: he can take the PC home in the basement and rent out all the people, spread it around, but then he doesn't get to develop the company, so they are competent and equipped for new assignments.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1139	Now we have general instruments, we don't have industry-oriented instruments, even down to individual businesses. It would be difficult to have a system where you would have one scheme per business, almost speaking. It would be a demanding piece of legislation, and it would probably also be a law that would be illegal, i.e. a law that would be contrary to the procurement rules, if we were to be as fine-skinned as the one that the representative is talking about here. But the government has been busy contributing to the transition. We already said when we went into the government, we have to get more legs to stand on. We are too oily in Norway today, and if anything happens to the oil industry, we will have major challenges. We barely managed to say that before the oil industry suddenly got a shot for the bow, with the consequences we've seen. That was the background to the fact that the government has now also invested heavily in intra-corporate change, in the various BIA funds and also in industrial research and innovation, which have doubled in our period, precisely because we are committed to providing businesses and industries with incentives to convert to new times.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1149	This question, from the representative Eirik Sivertsen to the Minister for Defence, will be answered by the Minister for Justice and Immigration on behalf of the Minister for Defence, who has been removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1154	‘How did the Council of State ensure that Norwegian suppliers were evaluated in the acquisition of drones by the Defence Agency at 152 million. krona, and why were no repurchasing agreements for Norwegian industry negotiated in the contract with the US supplier?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1159	I will be allowed, on behalf of the Minister of Defence, to answer the representative Sivertsen's questions. Let me start by stressing that the government is working purposefully to provide the Norwegian defence industry with framework conditions that enable the industry to develop further into internationally competitive actors. This is important for our national security interests and in line with our national defence industry strategy. The Norwegian defence industry is developing very well and demonstrates its international competitiveness in many areas. This is primarily due to good work in enterprises and their ability and willingness to be innovative in a demanding market. But there is also evidence that government policy is producing results. Demands for industrial cooperation are an important tool in the government’s strategy and contribute to ensuring the ability and ability of the Norwegian defence industry to maintain and further develop its own competences and technologies in key areas. The representative here raises questions about a concrete acquisition of drone equipment to the defense. Preparation for acquisition started as early as 2015. As a procurement authority based on the needs of the defence, defence equipment has taken a number of aspects into account in the decision to acquire this system from the US authorities through so-called Foreign Military Sales. This will include, inter alia: secure access to military technology subject to export restrictions. Defence equipment assessed at the time of acquisition that there were no Norwegian producers able to meet the defence needs for such systems. The contract between the Norwegian and US authorities was concluded in December 2017. Thus, in this particular case, no industrial cooperation was established according to the routines. Before the agreement with the US authorities was concluded, an industrial cooperation agreement would have been concluded with the manufacturer. Defence equipment indicates that there have been internal misunderstandings in the process of concluding industrial cooperation agreements leading to the deviation. After the announcement in 2018 that an agreement was not established under the normal procedure, the Swedish Armed Forces have worked to establish a cooperation between the manufacturer and the Norwegian industry. Dialogue between the parties is now under way and the possibilities for cooperation are further explored. On the other hand, such cooperation could not take place within the framework of an ordinary industrial cooperation agreement. Defence equipment itself has taken steps to prevent this from happening again. The procedures for the decision-making process on the conclusion of the contract were updated in 2018 and are fully implemented. Defence equipment has underlined the seriousness of the matter and has put in place the necessary procedures to ensure that it does not happen again.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1174	From that answer it can be concluded that the Minister of Defence has not taken any special measures to ensure that repurchases are made. Repurchase is a central part of defence acquisitions. Evenly, there are repurchase agreements for all the acquisitions you make, but here, according to a Deputy Director of Defence Equipment, it is missing. It's missing for us. The question that then arises is the other areas in which this type of error or deviation exists, which the Council of State chose to call it. I note that it has now been discovered that there has been no control here and that it can clearly be misunderstood on such a central element, but can the Council of State respond to whether there are other areas where this type of repurchase agreement has failed, so that it has not been ensured that investments in military material ensure development and capacity in Norwegian industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1183	As far as I know, I don't know about any more cases, but it's a natural question, which can be raised in writing on a later occasion. What's important here is that, from the point of view of defence equipment, you admit that there has been an anomaly, there has just been a mistake, and you've been through procedures and procedures to make sure that this doesn't happen again. The decision-making processes on contracts are up-to-date in 2018 and are now fully implemented, and we must therefore assume that this time, we will avoid such things happening in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1192	I will return to the first answer from the Council of State. It is difficult to disagree that ensuring that Norwegian industry is given a mandate, and any direct assignment, helps to build capacity, competence and develop Norwegian technology, thus strengthening its market position and export revenue opportunities. I have been working with drones since 2014, when the Technology Council released a report called Droner in the Arctic, and one of the main findings of that report is the identification of a possible new industry in Norway. It has also been discovered by the government. You have a drone strategy, and you have a north-eastern strategy that says that North Norway is going to be one of the most innovative and innovative regions. At the top of it all, the long-term defence plan has said that Andøya should be considered as a national drone centre. However, it is not chosen to contact the Norwegian drone industry in order to examine the possibilities of acquisitions in order to ensure the need for defence. Why didn't they contact the Norwegian drone industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1199	There are several companies in Norway that develop drone technologies, from very small to large actors. In this case, a number of assessments relating to the acquisition, including technical availability and risk mitigation measures, have been made such as recognisable equipment from the same supplier and similarity to previously used systems. The supplier may offer so-called ‘family of systems’, i.e. multiple systems can be operated from the same ground-based control station – that is, good synergies. Cooperation between allies on security of supply has also been emphasised by the fact that the selected systems have been sold to several different NATO countries, inter alia. Denmark, the United Kingdom and Germany. These are so-called shelf purchases, which do not require development. Furthermore, the availability of technology has been stressed, which was ensured by acquisition via the US authorities through the so-called FMS. As I said in the introduction, at this acquisition time, it was estimated that the technology you wanted in this purchase was not available.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1213	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘The Swedish Government recently submitted a legislative proposal on new data storage rules to the telecommunications operators, requiring them to store IP addresses for 10 months. As early as 2011, the size decided on storage obligations for 6 months, but this has not been implemented for various reasons. The current Minister of Justice pointed out in a reply to me in Stortinget on 11 January 2017 that, among other things, Kripos and the police in Bergen, who are working against child abuse online, are asking for legal provisions on the storage of IP addresses. When the government plans to draw up a bill on national rules for storing IP addresses, etc. at the premises of the telecommunications operators.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1222	Information on who has used a given IP address is often very important for police work against Internet-related crime. In many cases, such information is crucial, for example: when the police detect or receive information that a Norwegian IP address can be linked to Internet-related child abuse, and there is no information other than the IP address that can help identify the perpetrator. In addition, information on IP addresses may also be essential to identify the victims of network crime and to prevent them from being subject to further abuse. Today, Internet service providers can store information on which subscription has used a given IP address for up to 21 days for billing and security purposes. This means that in many cases the information has been deleted when the police will later become aware of an IP address that can be linked to criminal offences. Kripos has stated that this results in a large number of cases that cannot be resolved and that insults are not identified. I believe it is very important to consider whether to impose an obligation on Internet providers to store this information in an extended manner. It will improve the ability of the police to meet the challenges of today’s crime scene, where technological developments have provided new opportunities for criminals, both to commit crime and to avoid criminal prosecution. In the request decision No: 944 15 June 2017 asked the Swedish Government ‘to determine the legal space for the general storage of IP addresses and relevant traffic data to be extended’ and ‘to what extent privacy and international obligations can be taken into account’. The Ministry of Justice and Defence has started work on addressing these issues. It has not been clarified at this stage when the investigation will be completed. It is important that the issue is thoroughly addressed in order to ensure that such action will be within the framework of the Constitution and the international commitments of Norway. Norway is not free to base Sweden’s assessment of international obligations, including: because these assessments need to look at how actions will work together with other Norwegian legislation. In addition, it is important to carefully assess how storage obligations can be as effective as possible across different technical solutions used by Internet providers, in particular different techniques that allow a large number of subscribers to use the same IP address at the same time. This is of great importance for the best possible contribution to the police’s deterrence and resolution of Internet-related crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1237	I thank the Council of State for an answer that showed that he sees how important this is to combat crime. I would like to add to what has been said about child abuse online – which has often been developed in connection with the need to store IP addresses – that this will also apply to different types of organised crime, terrorism, online extortion and different new criminal practices emerging in the digital world. So this is a very urgent question — considering that the police in Norway are quite helpless when you don’t have the storage of IP addresses to investigate some of this crime, and have been dependent on receiving assistance from other countries, such as Italy, in important criminal cases. So I just want to ask the Council of State: when the Stortinget, and I also believe the party of the Council of State, was involved, asked for this investigation in June 2017 – two years ago – does not the Council of State think it should be time to start concluding in that investigation?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1246	I'm also impatient, and I wish these questions were simpler than they actually are. The request to investigate the legal area referred to some of the issues that they thought were important for us to cover in the investigation, among others. international commitments. Then I think it is important that we take it seriously, and that we are absolutely sure that we are making a proposal that is within the international commitments, if such a question is to come to Stortinget, and that all the technical solutions have also been properly and thoroughly evaluated. However, like the representative, I believe that an investigation should be put in place and completed as soon as possible. Then it will be up to politicians – when the investigation is available – to decide how to assess it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1255	I thank you for the additional response – which I perceive so that we are on the same track. It is a fact that in the case of the representative proposal in 2017, from the Christian People's Party – Hareide, Ropstad, etc. – there is only one party that opposes our going into this, and that's one of the government parties: the left. I guess that's not a question that is so easy for the Council of State to answer, but I have to assume that an investigation does not imply that the government has infinitely internal drawdowns on whether to promote anything or not, because it is obviously a large majority of the Storting that wants such a kind of legislation, when you get a good and proper framework for it. So I just want to encourage the Council of State to make the most of the progress in the matter. There are a lot of things online where this tool is needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1264	The size has asked the government to answer the question, and of course we will. It was an overwhelming majority. The request decision did not contain a decision on the outcome, it was a wish to investigate it. Of course, we're going to do that, and we're trying to do it as fast as we can.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1272	This question, from the representative Steinar Ness to the Minister for Fisheries, will be answered by the Minister for Oil and Energy on behalf of the Minister for Fisheries, who has left. The question will be raised by the representative of Liv Signe Navarsete.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1277	‘Next AS is a new entrepreneur enterprise in Sogn and Fjordane that has developed a unique environmental project for salmon farming without lice, in line with Report. St. 16. The company has access to approved new technology and 3 billion. krona for a unique bet, but lacks enough concessions to realize the project. Next AS is also the only actor in Sogn and Fjordane who now has an approved application for development concessions. How will the Council of State help to ensure that Next AS has the necessary framework conditions to realise this project?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1284	The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries received in January the complaint setting from the Directorate of Fisheries where Next AS partially refuses its application for development permits. The matter is dealt with in the department, and it is therefore difficult and not correct to comment on this particular issue in concrete terms. In general, the number of permits granted to companies applying for development permits may be emphasised to be based on a professional assessment of the actual need for authorisations in the requested project. The development authorisation system provides operators with a risk-relief for the development of projects involving significant innovation and significant investments. These are comprehensive and complex issues, and all complaints that are pending are carefully assessed, as is the case in the Directorate-General for Fisheries at first instance. In addition, it would not be appropriate to comment on individual cases pending final decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1295	Sogn and Fjordane are in a red zone, which, following the traffic light system, needs to be controlled over the lice problem in order to grow in an industry that is very important for employment and value creation, both in coastal communities and in the whole. The marine industries are one of the strongest assets of Sogn and Fjordane, and a single bedrock has great enthusiasm for this project, which can lead to a huge number of jobs, and where investment is 3 billion. kr – something that is not a everyday food in our county. Now representatives of the party to the Council of State, the Progress Party, and also the spokesman in Os, have said that the Progress Party is difficult for this project. Representatives from the Left and Christian People's Party were at the NRK yesterday and said the same thing. The Labour Party and the Center Party have been united on the bench about this. Is it to understand, then, that there is the Right who will be the restrictive party to a government handling of such a question?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1302	I agree with the representative of Navarsete that the aquaculture industry is important for Sogn and Fjordane. It is important for Norway as a whole – it is important for the whole coast. I think we can agree that had it not been for the aquaculture industry, our coast would definitely have looked different, especially where I come from. The development concession scheme is just to be able to pick up the opportunities and natural assumptions we have as ports to use the sea to produce amazing food. I just notice that the development concession scheme has been very well implemented. There's a lot of interest, there's been a lot of applications. And then I ask for an understanding that, on behalf of the Minister for Fisheries, I cannot comment specifically on a matter that is being dealt with and that is not decided.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1309	I thank you for your answer, and of course I understand that. At the same time, it is important for us from the county to take up this matter and get attention around her. For those who have received several – very many – development concessions, they are the big companies. We don't have this in Sogn and Fjordane. We're in a red zone, and this very project, which can help solve the lice problem, can be the key to Sogn and Fjordane getting a future viable diet, which is now shut down. So my sincere appeal, no matter what minister is standing here, is that the government looks closely at this application and also looks at it from a social perspective. Both the government and I come from parts of the country where it is not obvious to get that kind of investment, nor of course to get new technology in. So instead of asking more questions, I want to send an in-depth call from a group of states that one of them will meet this application.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1318	The invitation is registered and listed. So it's that the development concession scheme follows criteria that make those who are applying have to qualify, as I was in my main response. I can't say anything more than what I've already said. The exposure is registered, and this is now for treatment in the department and will get its decision once you have done the job that you have to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1329	Before I start on my question, I would like to make it clear that there is a ‘pressure residue’ in my question. I've informed the department about that too, but I'll make it visible when I read it. It is not always as easy to know where the line should be: ‘Norway is now governed by the right and the Progress Party has the Minister for Oil and Energy. There is a majority in the Storting to impact on Northland IV for oil extraction. Does the Council of State have any plans to propose such an impact assessment for the Storting, and why has the Right Party and the Advance Party failed to make such a proposal during their nearly six years of government?’ It says ‘Northern IV’ in the question, which should of course be said ‘Northern VI’.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1340	I can confirm that, as the Council of State, I have absolutely plans to implement what is government policy. My responsibility is in this way that of petroleum. It is beautiful and well formulated in the Granavolden platform. The main objective of the government’s petroleum policy is to facilitate the profitable production of oil and gas from a long-term perspective. The government will pursue a stable and long-term petroleum policy. The search policy should contribute to that precisely. New, profitable findings that ensure income, value creation and employment are important to maintain our welfare society. Established practice for the implementation of concession rounds on Norwegian soil to provide the industry with access to new attractive exploration areas is thus an important support element in this policy. On the issue of opening up new areas, the government's policy is anchored in our political platform, the Granavolden platform. In line with the platform, the government will not propose opening it up to petroleum activities or impact assessment under the Petroleum Act in the areas outside the Western Seabed, Lofoten and Senja in the period 2017-2021. Nor will the Government undertake petroleum activities at Jan Mayen, the ice edge, Skagerrak or the Mortars during this period of government. Prior to the Granavolden platform, this was first anchored through the cooperation agreement with the Left and Christian People's Party and then through the Jeleia declaration. So this has been the government's position throughout the period that the representative Haukeland Liadal is asking for. That me and the Progress Party, the party to which I belong, have a different primary position, on which we have gone to elections, is well known. However, in a majority government, compromises must be made, and in this case, the compromise led to the failure of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1353	I thank you for a good and constructive response – I want to focus on it. The Oil Directorate is worried. They have said on several occasions that they are concerned about search sites after 2021. In my estimation, the Right Party-Fremskrittsparte-Christian People's Party-Left Government is still running towards that time period. Now that we see that we have a majority in the Great Britain, the government, even though the time is running out, chooses not to look at the possibility of gaining more knowledge about the Northern Ireland VI area, because that's what we're talking about today. What is the oil minister's plan and response to the employees of the Oil Directorate, as well as to the many thousands along the coast who work in the industry, in terms of exploration areas and that one does not want an impact assessment?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1362	When we talk about this particular area, I must be allowed to remind the representative of Haukeland Liadal that the Workers' Party has spent eight years in government ahead of this government, and I did not register that proposals were made for the impact assessment of Nordland VI and Nordland VII. It is not possible to conceal that the sea areas outside the Western Baltic Sea, Lofoten and, to the extent that Senja is also part of the Norwegian base resource base, but Norwegian base – I was saying – consists fortunately of more than just the Lofoten and the West Pole. Assigning attractive search areas is precisely what ensures that we have activity on a Norwegian base and that there are ring effects. I believe that this government has proved it. There have been 411 extraction permits since we joined – 83 in January, which was a record award.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1369	I thank you for the answer, and there it came: A debtor of former governments – the Bondevik government, for that matter, the Stoltenberg government, etc. I believe that the concern of the Oil Directorate, which is clear that we are approaching 2021, the year when exploration activity will go down, gives all cause for concern. However, Norway is currently operating in about 100 vulnerable areas, about 100 SVO areas on Norwegian pedestals that can be equated with e.g. Northland VI. Former State Council Solvency Horne said in 2017 in the election campaign of the Federation of Industry that her main election vow to Rogaland was to ensure that there was an impact assessment in the Nordic Region VI as well as the LoVeSe area. Does the Council of State think that former councillor Horne has kept his promise to his constituents along the coast and in Rogaland?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1376	There is no secret what has been in the various government platforms since accession in 2013. It has been very clear that it has not been the government’s policy to investigate the impact of Northland VI, Northland VII and Troms II – just as it is formulated in the last government platform. I've given an explanation of why it's like this. There are different opinions about this between the four government parties. Then you have the compromise on this, and the compromise is expressed as it is. This fight has been lost by my party, which also belongs to former State Councillor Solvency Horne – to which the representative Haukeland Liadal referred. I also record that it is not just in the government's parties that we discuss the impact assessment of Nordland VI and VII.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1386	‘When Statoil and Hydro were merged in October 2007, there were major discussions as to whether this would result in the new company being given too much market power. Since then, we have been through a few downs in this industry, the last time at the fall in oil prices in 2014. We now see that there is a strong pressure on wages in the supply industries of the petroleum sector. What has the government done to ensure that Equinor does not have too much market power on Norwegian soil?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1393	Over 50 years we have developed a Norwegian oil and gas industry that has created enormous values for Norwegian society. It has given us great ring-effects, and it has given us nutrition development, definitely, throughout the country. The most important thing to maintain employment in the supplier industry is to maintain the level of activity of the socket. For this reason, government policy consists of three main pillars: stable, predictable framework conditions, allocation of attractive exploration space and active research and development efforts. The oil industry is a global and cyclical industry. We also know that there is a significant competitive advantage in having a large domestic market, where all parts are internationally competitive through the ups and downs that are and that have been. We now have a much greater diversity of operators and owners in licenses than we had 20 years ago, and the number of field operators has almost doubled in this period. This is the result of a conscious policy and a successful petroleum policy. Equinor’s strong position on Norwegian soil is the result of a conscious desire from the 1970s to build a strong Norwegian oil environment. The company has developed a broad competence and knowledge of Norwegian continental shelf, and we are actively using this to create long-term values on the base. The company, I believe, therefore also has great self-interest in diversity and competition in all parts of the supplier industry. The government has recently investigated the competition situation on Norwegian soil at the request of Stortinget. As reported in the budget proposal for 2019, this investigation concluded that there was no need for regulatory action. An overall Energy and Environment Committee joined this assessment just before Christmas, and nothing has changed since then. Over time, companies face different challenges through up and downtime. They themselves are responsible and the best to adapt to the prevailing market conditions, and I think that is a wise division of labour. In addition, a large domestic market for industry in both the short and long term is the best guarantee for maintaining good, profitable jobs in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1414	Thanks for the answer. I would like to refer to a special agreement between the parties on a yard in Rogaland, a supplier of Equinor, which I have been given insight into. There has been an agreement on a wage reduction of 10 p.m., and the agreement says that without this wage reduction, the company had not been given the assignment they are currently working on. This is an employee group that has had no particular wage growth in recent years, and there is reason to believe that this is true of several suppliers. This means that the increased billions of Equinor profits have recently been paid by ordinary workers, and ordinary workers are the most important business cluster we have here in the country. Does the Council of State consider this to be a development serving the nation in the longer term?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1419	The Council of State does not know the specific matter to which reference is made here. I also refer to the answer given to a previous question in the Chamber today, from the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Anniken Hauglie. The most important thing the government can do is to make sure that there is activity on a Norwegian base. That's what this government has done. We have had a division of labour that has served this country well, where companies make the commercial decisions within frameworks and laws and the state allocates land. We have. And the best way we can ensure that there is competition and activity on a Norwegian base in the future is by doing what the government has done, namely granting new extraction permits.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1426	I thank you again for the answer. I would like to take a matter that the Council of State should know about, because in a number of articles and in the manager of the last edition of the newspaper Maritim Logg, from the maritime organisations, they strongly correct the use of Equinor's market power. It is claimed, inter alia, that: that Equinor uses the power to maximize his profit. We hear that shipping companies rather leave their ships at bay than let them sail for Equinor – with great losses. The maritime cluster is an important cluster of competences on the road towards new industries, for example: renewable energy production. In addition, we know that fixed posts in maritime transport have been replaced with temporaryity to a large extent. Does the Council of State believe that this is a sustainable way of maintaining such a cluster of competences?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1431	I have a great deal of understanding of the challenge that the maritime industry has faced, and to the extent that it is also facing, after a period of historical oil falls. If there is something I feel secure about, it is that there is competitiveness in the Norwegian maritime industry, which means that it will be present both on the Norwegian base and on the other sockets around the world. The most important thing we can do as authority and as government is exactly what we're doing, assigning the area to look at, where it might be found, where there might be activity. And if we're going to have a maritime nutrition in Norway in the future, that's exactly what's one of the most important tools, that there's a need for the maritime industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1441	«Inside. 376 S wrote to the Joint Committee that ‘it is important to further develop the operational and base environment in Florø and to ensure a wide range of competences and functions, including personnel transport. [[2010-2011]] This will be in favour of the region, but probably also in relation to the needs of Statoil and after several other companies have and are expected to get in the area’. Can the Council of State guarantee that the concession conditions are respected?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1448	I am pleased that the representative Heggo is concerned about the role of oil and gas business as an important district industry. The industry has employees in almost all its municipalities and provides the basis for more than 170,000 employees throughout the country. I see this myself every time I go home to the brook. Then I meet people who are on their way to and from work in the oil industry, people who shop at the local store and demand goods and services locally. We cannot adopt ring effects. The foundation is a stable and predictable oil and gas policy, in which the industry is allocated new land – where suppliers of goods and services to businesses are efficient and competitive, so that our fields live as far as possible and create maximum values for society and that contracts are awarded to the best providers. Petroleum policy means I deliver. In 2019, oil and gas are estimated to contribute 286 billion. kr in the treasury. If we had distributed this money directly to the residents of the country, each household of four had received more than NOK 200,000. The representative's party trap, Ola Tegen, knows a lot about this. He is the rapporteur in the municipality of Flora and is the host of Fjord Base, which supplies a number of fields in the North Sea. Right now, giant projects are working on investments of 20 billion. kr in the Gejöa area and not least have the Do field extended life. In addition, the plan is to operate the Snorre field until 2040, more than 25 years longer than foreseen in the Development and Operation Plan, PUD. Ola Tegen knows that the projects will provide great opportunities, including for the players at Fjord Base, and will contribute positively to both the municipality and the region. With continued active petroleum policies providing new projects at sea and facilitating competitive economic activity locally, we ensure robust activity on the mainland and along the coast, including at the base of the municipality of Flora, in the representative's home state.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1461	I thank you for your answer. It would also be very nice if the council had answered the question I asked. The concession terms are used to secure local ring effects, e.g.: logistics is very important for the Florø base. KonKraft operates with the project «Competitive force – Norwegian base for change». Here is the logistics one of the inputs one should be further worked on. Outsourcing can quickly be the answer. This may mean that operators are less governed by such self and that a third party is taking over on behalf of several oil companies with common or similar needs. How will the Council of State ensure transparency in, for example: ConForce, so that we ensure that concession requirements and the will of the Storting are followed up in practice?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1468	I would like to refer to the government of Stoltenberg's proposal to amend the petroleum law § 10-2, which was adopted by the Stortinget in 2011, as mentioned requirements for the organisation and management of the petroleum activity, among others. Bases. It was demonstrated that rightholders will decide on a commercial basis bases to be used in the petroleum activity. As I said in my main answer, it's like we have a division of labour, and I refer to what I just referred to, and the Storting has adopted. It is the companies that make the commercial decisions, and then the authorities that own the resources have an important role to play. And assigning new land, as this government has done, ensures that there is activity along the whole coast, also on the base of Florø.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1475	I thank you for your answer. Will the Council of State accept non-concessional decisions by companies? The United Kingdom has a model where the supply bases are mainly clean transhipment ports, while the bases in the Norwegian model are well-functioning clusters where the volume of activity, complexity and service width allow competitive services to be provided along a wide range. Such a Norwegian model is entirely decisive for the Florø base and also provides a better basis for gradually developing new and greener industries. If the Council of State ensures that the Norwegian model is maintained, and how will it ensure transparency in e.g.: ConKraft?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1486	I refer to Prop. 85 S for 2010–2011, on the extension and operation of the Valemon field, Innst. 376 S for 2010-2011 and Stortinget’s decision on the plan for the expansion and operation of the Valemon field, approved by the Ministry on 30 June 2011. The approval was granted in accordance with the submitted plans, comments, assumptions and conditions resulting from that proposition and cancellation, and then no conditions were imposed for the use of specific bases for supply and helicopter transport. But I understand that I and the representative have exactly the same desire: as many ringing effects as possible. That is why this government has also had an active policy for the allocation of new land, as we have. did at the beginning of this year, with historical 83 new extraction permits, which will also generate activity on the Florø base.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1496	I am delighted to ask the following questions: ‘The Caribbean is an energy region. Our industry is the world leader in its fields. It makes us well positioned for the future with higher value creation and lower greenhouse gas emissions. A greater part of the Norwegian base shall be electrified. In reality, we are building infrastructure on the seabed that can be used by seawinds in the future. This is how the oil and gas industry is a crucial industry for building green industry. What is the government’s strategy for using our world-leading petroleum competence and technology to build the Norwegian sea wind industry?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1505	There is a revolutionary development in offshore wind power, and Norway can and must both play an important role in this development. The market for offshore wind power is international, both in our neighbourhoods, in Europe, in Asia and in North and South America. Despite the fact that we have not yet had a domestic market of importance, we can rejoice that Norwegian companies export goods and services for billions of dollars to this industry. It is important that the industry continues to seize the exciting opportunities that are now emerging. Norwegian companies have a high level of competence in the marine industry and are competitive and competent in offshore wind power. The government presented our strategy for liquid wind power in the 2018 budget, and it is still an expression of government policy in this area. An important starting point for our strategy is that Norwegian companies have strong expertise in the oil and gas industry, shipping and renewable power generation, as the representative points out here. Through the support to Norwegian Energy Partners, NORWEP, the government contributes to the promotion of Norwegian offshore wind power companies in international markets. In addition, the activity is supported by our general trade promotion schemes. Enova may support demonstration projects for offshore wind power. Otherwise, it is a premise for the development of renewable energy in Norway to take place under market conditions, i.e. without subsidies and aid. Developments are going very fast. In some ways, we can imagine a commercial activity in renewable energy also in Norwegian seas. Therefore, my department is now preparing the opening of one or two areas for concession applications for renewable energy production at sea, as stated by the Marine Energy Act. The Ministry also prepares a proposal for a regulation of the Law on Marine Energy, such as: will clarify the procedure for this type of concession.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1518	I thank the Council of State for the answer. There are many different instruments and fine words. My fear is that the effort is spread thinly beyond different instruments without a clear objective for Norwegian industrial construction of liquid sea wind technology, based on the shoulders of the oil and gas industries. Therefore, my follow-up question to the Government Council is whether the government has a concrete objective for Norwegian industry, and where it should be, based on floating sea winds, for example. in the year 2030.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1523	I refer to what is on the Granavolden platform and to my main response, where I point out that we are working on opening up areas just so that this type of project can be developed. We have a general tool that I think hits this well. There is nothing wrong with promoting good projects, and my ministry will evaluate all applications for permits that come to build renewable energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1528	My question was not about opening up areas. It's good that the government is in the process. The OECD believes that sea wind will be one of our most important marine industries in 2030, and in Europe, offshore wind power is the fastest form of renewable energy production. This train is leaving now. The question is whether we should be involved in Norway and seize the opportunity to create a new industrial venture. The industry itself has asked the government to define clear targets for building a new industry based on liquid sea winds. Today, Norway stands for 5 pst. the market share of technology for services in the global maritime wind market. There is a high proportion for a small country, but industry wants us to define a target to increase the proportion to 10 pst. in 2030. Is it relevant for the government to set such a concrete objective for new industry based on marine wind technology?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1533	I believe that in my main response that was what I announced. You're working on opening up areas, and I also showed you what the Granavolden platform says about demonstration projects, etc. We're working on this right now, and it's not long before we can present these proposals. The Ministry has done a thorough job on this, and we must acknowledge that, among other things. are large areas under consideration — with many interests, such as fisheries, environmental and petroleum interests. I think the best thing we can do is do a thorough job on this. Demonstration projects, projects for the supply of petroleum installations, may be requested at any time. You don't have to wait for areas to open.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1543	I want to ask questions to the Minister of Oil and Energy. It reads as follows: ‘In the revised national budget for 2018, the government wrote: ‘Decision to contribute to the financing of the investment and operation of a full scale project for the capture and storage of CO 2 needs to be assessed against other climate action. We must choose effective measures that maximise the climate impact.’» What other climate action does the Council of State consider more effective than carbon capture and storage?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1555	Climate challenges require considerable efforts in the years ahead and need to be met within a narrower range of budgetary action. This means that it is always necessary to choose effective measures that maximise climate impact. This has been Norwegian policy for many years, and it has been and is – I believe – broad political agreement that cost-effectiveness should be a pillar of Norwegian climate policy. The working party has also supported this, and the principle has even been called the Stoltenberg model. It is not a single measure that will take Norway to the low-emission society. It's all about doing a lot of things at once. Within my remit, we have e.g. also established a research centre on low-carbon technologies, which reinforces government efforts to reduce Norwegian capped emissions. If the world succeeds in reducing global greenhouse gas emissions in line with climate objectives and at the lowest possible cost, the capture and storage of CO 2 will be absolutely necessary. At the same time, there is a considerable uncertainty about the future development of CO 2 management. Only when many countries use this technology will CO 2 management become a cost-effective global climate action. Therefore, it is important that the Norwegian project contributes to knowledge dissemination and technology development internationally. A reasonable level of costs is essential here for the project to become a good demonstration project demonstrating that capture and storage is possible economically. Then we have to make sure that the Norwegian project contributes to increasing the threat of CO 2 management as climate action and does not deter other future projects. The government is therefore working for a project that contributes to the achievement of a sufficiently low cost level of CO 2 management, as well as making it visible that other builders will follow and that the learning that emerges in the demonstration facility will be disseminated to subsequent builders.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1579	The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change states that the world is likely to need a rapid and comprehensive deployment of carbon capture and storage in order to limit global warming by 2 degrees. Norway has acceded to the Paris Agreement and committed itself to achieving the climate objectives by 2030, which means a reduction of climate emissions by at least 40 pst. An early commitment to CO 2 management in Norway could build future competitiveness for Norwegian industry, both on the mainland and on Norwegian base. This initiative can help reduce climate change emissions, increase value creation and create many thousands of new jobs. I did not receive a reply as to whether the Council of State has other measures that he believes are better than carbon capture and storage. I just got a summary that there are many things that have to be done at the same time – no clear priorities. My question is: what is the Council of State doing now to realise the carbon capture and storage effort, which is incredibly important for the Norwegian industry and the possibilities ahead?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1589	The overall objective of the government’s work on the capture and storage of CO 2 is to contribute to a cost-effective response to global climate change. There are major international actors involved in the Norwegian project. This gives the Norwegian project good prerequisites for contributing to international technology development and knowledge dissemination. In order to reduce costs significantly, many projects need to be developed at global level and the government is working with the EU and other countries to promote CO 2 management as one of the solutions to global climate challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1600	It is interesting to follow up on this, because the Council of State does not answer the question I am asking. But I can follow up on what the Council of State is talking about, and that's the cost that's the important answer here. Then it is interesting to know: When does the Council of State realize that an investment decision is being made for the carbon capture and storage project? Will you be able to do it by 2020, or will you push it by 2021 and help that maybe nothing happens? It's incredibly important that the government is ahead and not leaning backwards and just letting things float. I feel that the government lacks control of this, and I expect the Council of State to confirm whether there is a matter for the Stortinget about financing models during the spring, as the government itself has said. That matter has not yet come, and I wonder when it will come.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1605	It may be confirmed by the Council of State. The government will deliver on the order made by Stortinget to return to Stortinget in spring 2019 with a visualisation of different funding models. I can confirm that the government will do that. At the same time, I can confirm that the timetable that has been mentioned and announced in connection with the CCS project, the whole chain, is solid, and a decision has been pointed out in 2020/2021.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1615	‘There are few, if any, emission scenarios reaching the target of limiting the temperature increase to two degrees without carbon capture and storage. When the government still hesitates to put in place carbon capture and storage – is it because it is believed that Norway has already achieved the climate targets and made the necessary emission cuts?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1622	The government does not hesitate to put in place a good project for the capture, transport and storage of CO 2 in Norway. We work hard with the industry actors to establish a solid basis for decision making on investment in the full-scale project. The government’s climate policy aims to cut emissions as quickly as possible and to help develop technological solutions that enable the world to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement. If the world succeeds in reducing global greenhouse gas emissions in line with climate objectives and at the lowest possible cost, the capture and storage of CO 2 will be absolutely necessary. This makes clear both the United Nations Panel on Climate Change and the International Energy Agency. The Government contributes to the development of CO 2 capture, transport and storage technologies. We have expressed our ambition to achieve a cost-effective solution for full-scale CO 2 management in Norway, which provides technology development in an international perspective. Norway is also working on developing technologies that the world needs to meet its climate targets, while cutting its own emissions. The Granavolden platform refers to cross-sectoral economic instruments in the form of tariffs and tradable allowances and is – and should be – the main means of reducing emissions in Norway. Norway has fulfilled the Kyoto obligation in the first commitment period, and we will meet the Norwegian Kyoto obligation in the current period. Under the Paris Agreement, Norway has notified a conditional emission target to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by at least 40 pst. in comparison with 1990. The Climate Act sets this goal. The EU has notified a similar target. We are in dialogue with the EU on the joint achievement of the 2030 emission target. Norway is already participating in the EU ETS for enterprises, which will be included as one of three pillars in a joint agreement to meet the 2030 emission target.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1647	The climate policy of this government is slow. We're not in the process of reaching our obligations, and we're not doing what we're going to do to avoid exceeding the world's temperature by over 1.5 degrees. And based on what I heard in Political Quarter yesterday, I understand why. It is clear that when the government's figures here at Stortinget talk about climate hysteria and disapprove climate refugees of the fact that there are bad weather also in Norway, it goes without saying that climate action from this government is slow. I get worried when I hear all the reservations the minister takes when we talk about capture and storage. He refers to the international perspective, and not least he refers to the expenditure. It is clear that this will be a large and expensive project, but the most expensive is climate change. Does the Council agree that the most expensive thing we do in climate policy is not to act in creating technologies for capture and storage?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1654	We don't have time to waste, and we're doing what we can to get a good decision base as quickly as possible. At the same time, both the State and the industrial actors in the project are engaged in following a good industrial project cycle. This means that we need to spend the necessary time planning of this project. The government does not want to increase the risk in the project by providing the schedule notified. The Government presented in the revised budget for 2018 that an investment decision can be taken in 2020/2021. This was also repeated in the State budget for 2019. It is this timetable that still applies.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1661	We have no time to lose, says the Minister of Energy. But we have already lost a whole year, because when the government presented the state budget for 2018, it was a cut for CO 2 cleaning in the industry that went from 360 million. NOK 20 million. kr. No bet – there was a total deletion of the entire bet that the government had previously had. This has meant that it has already been a year’s postponement – now the Minister is talking about 2021. One might suspect that he wants to go off himself before he asks someone to start this project. One problem is the one year itself – it’s serious enough in itself – but the most serious thing is what kind of signals the government sends out when they propose cut, and when they don’t show the will to lead. This is a major project for Norway, which requires strong figures. Then I'm worried when the Energy Minister talks, because he's not the power you need around the King's table for this big project for Norway. Does the Council agree that the hugely cut government implemented in 2018 sent bad signals to the market and bad signals around Norway’s willingness to invest in the project?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1673	This Council of State acceded on 31 August last year. Every day that has passed since that date has the interest in CCS increased. It's because the world recognizes that this is one of the tools that need to be put in place. But every day, my department has also been busy talking to those who are our natural partners in this project, in Norway and abroad. We haven't downgraded this project. With this project, we have just done what we have told us to do. We've prioritised it. I refer to the current year's budget: it is set at 650 million. kr, in line with the timetable stated – and laid down – for this project.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1683	‘Norway has the possibility to develop solutions and infrastructure that can ‘decarbonise’ the European industry by storing CO 2 in the North Sea. Carbon capture and storage is the closest we come to a common solution for emissions from, among other things. metallurgical, mechanical and chemical industries. [[CCS]] The State budget for 2019 stated on CO 2 management that ‘the government has an ambition to achieve a cost-effective solution for full scale CO 2 management in Norway, which provides technology development in an international perspective’. Does the Council of State consider that the actors involved in CCS in Norway are not contributing to technology development in an international perspective?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1699	The government is very pleased with the international breadth of the actors involved in the Norwegian CO 2 management project. Here are major international actors, such as Finnish Fortum, German Heidelberg, French Total and Dutch Shell, as well as major Norwegian players with significant international presence, such as Equinor and Aker Solutions. This has given us a good starting point for international technology development and knowledge dissemination. In order for the knowledge we build to be disseminated as widely as possible, we need to work hard to ensure that the full scale project contributes to the realisation of several international projects. There may be projects using the Norwegian transport and storage infrastructure and there may be new projects elsewhere. Therefore, together with the industrial actors in the project, the government is working with, inter alia: removing barriers to the transport of CO 2 across national borders and supporting financial instruments in Europe for subsequent projects. Industrial actors are making great efforts to obtain CO 2 from European emission sources that can benefit from a Norwegian CO 2 transport and storage infrastructure. The experience of the technology centre at Mongstad shows that technology can be successfully spread internationally. At TCM, the state is owned together with Equinor, Shell and Total. Large international companies have tested, and want to test, capture technology at this center. The TCM and the built-up competences are requested internationally, including: from China and the United States. In order for CO 2 capture and storage to become an effective climate action, it must be put into international use on a large scale. The government wants the work on the full scale project in Norway to contribute to this. The major international actors involved in the full-scale project are already working well with knowledge dissemination and technology development to help us achieve this goal, but it also depends on the demand for technology from others.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1725	I don't think the Council of States is taking seriously. We have two challenges. We have a challenge that is the climate challenge. So we have challenge number two, we have a big oil industry and a big industry that requires cleaning. We are daily under pressure for the oil industry to step down – it is to be protected, we cannot let that activity come. The only answer to all of this is get CO 2 cleaning in place. We can then maintain 300,000 jobs, but if we are to start stepping down our oil business because of demands that come because we are dropping out too much, it is much better that we invest heavily in CO 2 cleaning – spending money on it. It also has to be included in these arithmetical tools as a tool, when assessing what it costs to build storage and what it costs with capture facilities. How much does it cost to keep all the billions out there in the ground?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1736	I can establish that it is not the government's policy to step down the activity on Norwegian pedestal, nor to liquidate the activity on Norwegian pedestal – on the contrary. In parallel with this, we work, as I have answered in previous questions, with the CCS project, as we have notified Stortinget about. We have this year, among others. A $650-million frame. kr to work out this project until an investment decision, with which we will of course return to Stortinget. We're not doing this alone, we're doing it with heavy industrial players, we're doing it with alliance partners in Europe, and we have to do it if we're going to succeed.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1743	Yes, one does it with others, but one does it for the platters, it's too little of it, it's just talking, because we need someone to act. Now I'm going to end up asking another question, and it's about the central repository that you're talking about in that context: will the central repository that's now to be built in Eyegarden be built independently of the solutions that you can find for capture facilities on Norcem and Klemetsrud?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1748	We're working on one project, and it's capture and storage. That's what the project is, and that's what the project we're going to be working on towards an investment decision, which we're going back to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1756	‘Carbon capture and storage make Norwegian industry part of the solution to the climate problem while creating new jobs. If Norway delivers storage according to the EU carbon capture and storage roadmap, it will involve 22 000 jobs only linked to carbon storage as early as 2030. In addition, work is provided in the field of catch and transport. Would the Council agree that Norway would benefit from the establishment of these jobs in this country?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1763	Both the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and the International Energy Agency point out that it will be very difficult, and not least more expensive, to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement without capture and storage of CO 2. And if we succeed in the full-scale project, which helps to spread technology internationally, this can be a significant industry of competence for Norway. Nevertheless, it is very difficult to calculate how the employment effects will be and where they will take place. Norway currently has significant competence and activity in this area, and achieving a cost-effective solution for full-scale CO 2 management in Norway will lead to job creation in Norway as well. For the climate, the number of tonnes of CO 2 permanently stored underground, and not the number of jobs in Norway, is the most important. At the same time, for Norway, it is an advantage that the efforts we make for the climate also create jobs, as the representative points out. Let me just stress that the government wants to get as much as possible back for any full-scale project in Norway. The main objective of the project is to contribute to the development of a cost-effective technology for the capture, transport and storage of CO 2. But we also want to facilitate the project to generate jobs in Norway. The project, I mean, is well set up to just do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1786	Thanks for the answer. Norway has really succeeded in particular in one field, and there is the TCM in Mongstad. It has become the world's largest and most flexible carbon capture test facility. In addition, over many years of operation, it has built up its own competence to make it extremely attractive. I heard from other colleagues who have asked questions earlier, that Chinese and Americans want to use our facility rather than invest in a similar self. Among other things, the Americans have spent 40 million dollars. the dollar through its oil and energy department to six different companies, including one that has signed an agreement with the TCM on Mongstad. The problem is that they only have concession until August 2020, while they have contracts for three years to come. When will the Minister ensure that they are extended that concession?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1795	A new agreement with the technology centre in Mongstad is something the department is working on now, and it is negotiated with possible future actors. The technology centre in Mongstad, as the representative points out, is important. It's part of the competence base, and I think it has been, is today, and is going to be in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1800	For this with predictability in the case of a centre, when the Americans are in line to establish their companies to produce as far as maturity and commercialisation: this is one year ahead. Why can't we just prioritize that part? And another question: what does the Minister do to create that market in view of future products that are capable of being produced in parallel with carbon storage?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1807	Let me just refer to the government's CCS project and to the answer I gave instead. The agreement that concerns the technology center in Mongstad is something that we're working on, and you're going to get back to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1815	‘Through carbon capture and storage, Norway can secure emission-free energy for Europe while offering European industry CO 2 storage – in line with the Paris Agreement. It could be a major and important industry for Norway. When we found oil and gas, we stimulated technological development by the state taking almost the entire bill, against the companies paying almost 80 pst. in taxes on the income. The United States is now to grant tax effusion for each tonne of CO 2 that is purified and stored. Will the government introduce such a climate refund scheme in Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1828	There is a broad consensus on the need to capture and store CO2 and considerable resources are being used to develop the technology. As I mentioned earlier this year, more than 650 million have been allocated. to follow up on this work – significant means of demonstrating the government’s willingness to stimulate technological development. An investment decision in the full scale project is now under way, where project studies are also to be carried out, and the results are to be quality assured according to the country’s project model. The most important thing we can do to contribute to the development of CO2 capture and storage is to ensure that this work succeeds, so that by making an investment decision we can provide a good basis for decision-making for the Storting. I can assure the representative that all the actors involved are working hard to get this done. In the context of the review of the revised national budget for 2018, the majority of this government asked to provide information on current financing models for the capture, transport and storage of CO2 during spring 2019. I can confirm that this follows the government up. A full scale project will initially entail large expenditure and revenue. However, the aim is to have a positive impact on other projects, and our efforts must therefore be designed in line with this objective, in contrast to the oil and gas activities, where the main objective is to maximise revenues.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1839	I did not ask about the full-scale project, but about a climate refund scheme in Norway, and if the government thinks about it. The United States now passed a law in February that gives companies tax effusion for each tonne of CO2 they clean and store. I hear a government council that has done some priorities, but here there are little plans and little visions. If Norway does not sign up here, the possibility will fail. We should have an ambition to deliver CO2-free energy to Europe, and we should look to a climate-reduction system that surpasses its US, to speed up the implementation of profitable capture and storage of CO2 and to ensure the transition to CO2-free energy supply in Europe. Why won't the government look at solutions that will give Norwegian opportunities to create these values towards a European market in the first place?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1846	The U.S. may have found a model that can work for their relationship, and I perceive that model is neither 100 pst. has been prepared or has found its solution. We in Norway need to find our own models and do what is right for us. Negotiations are now ongoing with the industrial actors in the full scale project, where possible, aid for the investment and operation of the capture, transport and storage of CO2. The outcome of these negotiations could form the basis for a commercial model.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1853	Norway has to look at solutions that suit us. I fully agree with the Council of State on this. If you, for example, Taking the goal of converting Norwegian gas into hydrogen, we can still use the Norwegian pipeline system to Europe as well as the pipes that transport the gas to the kitchen in England and down to the continent. Replacing this system with power lines will involve enormous costs and is likely to delay the transition to climate-friendly power. It is precisely about seeing Norway’s advantage and Norway’s opportunities. In other words, we can secure emission-free energy for Europe by cleaning out CO2 and storing it on the seabed, exactly what the Paris Agreement and the Climate Panel ask us to do. At the same time, it gives us the opportunity to clean up existing industries, thereby increasing profitability in the long term and attracting more of us in Norway, ensuring Norwegian investment. Why doesn't the government want to look further on such a solution, but only keep on one track?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1860	That's what the government is doing. The government is working on a hydrogen strategy just because there might be some exciting opportunities for hydrogen at the other end. We have a high CO2 tax in Norway, and I understand that the United States does not have it. We have a good and broad instrument for precisely what the representative points to here.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1870	The question has been submitted in advance, and it still says: «The government has not provided a value chain and funding model for carbon capture and storage. Without such clarification, it is difficult to create a robust framework for potential actors and to secure external funding. At the same time, the government will not say whether an investment decision will come in 2020, and the Council of State has created confusion by suggesting that it will only be invested in a project. What time will the government provide proposals for funding models, as the commercial operators ask for?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1879	In the context of the review of the revised national budget for 2018, the Stortinget Government provided a briefing on current financing models for the capture, transport and storage of CO 2 in spring 2019. That's what this government will follow up and come back to Stortinget with during the spring. Negotiations are in progress between the State and the industrial actors involved in the full scale project on State aid for the investment and operation of the capture, transport and storage of CO 2. These negotiations will clarify how state aid in the full-scale project can be designed. Furthermore, these negotiations are also central to providing the basis for any commercial model. This is particularly important for those actors responsible for the transport and storage of CO 2. Any new CO 2 stock will be established with overcapacity. This means that there will be room for storing CO 2 from sources other than the volume involved in the full scale project. The nature of the framework to be applied to this overcapacity is one of several issues that need to be resolved before the investment decision. I do not want here to preface the outcome of the negotiations with the industrial actors. I also do not want to pre-empt the briefing on financing models for the capture, transport and storage of CO 2, which I confirm will come back to Stortinget during the spring of 2019.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1908	Now the government has been happy to stand here for a while, but I still hope that I can challenge him with new questions. In my own country, Rogaland, we have quite a lot of expertise in the industry. We have a high level of competence in subsea solutions and not least in the transport of oil and gas. These are competences that are important for the development of industry linked to CCS, and it is not least important whether it is appropriate to store carbon on the continental shelf. My question to the government is: will the government create a plan for how to use and develop the existing competence? Will the government create a plan for e.g. competence transfer within these areas, so that we can apply the knowledge that already exists, and the people who already work in the area? Or is it that the government just hopes that this is going to work out?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1917	The CCS project being worked on is a competence project in which Norway has a world-leading role. And taking care of and developing this competence is part of the CCS project. I think that cooperation between the industrial actors and the state's contribution ensure that we get it as a representative here previously pointed to, namely jobs and the environment of competence based on this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1924	As a rogalending, I did not think this was very reliable. My point is to listen if the government is also ambitious on our behalf – not just on behalf of the county, but on behalf of the entire Western region, where one has a lot of competence that is relevant to this particular thing. We also know that for those companies that work concretely with carbon capture, a long waiting period without funding from the projects will be quite difficult, even to keep payroll subjects. In the worst case, it is about a period of 16 months, during which it will be difficult for companies involved in the development of transport and storage to retain their competence and also difficult to maintain the project organisation if they have a long waiting period. This only illustrates that in several areas it will be necessary both to retain and to develop competences. My question is, what does the government intend to do with it?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1933	Yes – and that is why we have no time to lose in this project. Once we have set out the project plan we have made, where we have announced a possible decision in 2021, this is among other things. at the recommendation of the external quality assurance body. This is a comprehensive project. It's sometimes a complicated project. Therefore, we need to make good use of the time and work towards an investment decision, which we have previously announced will come in 2020/2021.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1943	‘In 2011, the government promoted the Stoltenberg II Communication: An industry for the future – about the petroleum industry. The overthrow of the government after 2013 and it has led Erna Solberg after that. The Workers' Party has repeatedly called for a new notification of the industry, but it seems that the government is satisfied with our 2011 policy. Does not the Council of State agree that we need to develop policy in line with the time in which we live, in order to maintain our most important industry, and will he promote a communication on the petroleum industry to the Storting?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1956	Petroleum industry has always been a cyclical industry, including: driven by large fluctuations in the oil price. We have designed an oil policy and framework conditions that are robust precisely against changes in the environment. Central to this is that the authorities set the framework, and that the companies make the business decisions and carry out their activities. In such a system, it is important that companies have as much self-interest as possible in making good decisions for the State as a resource owner. Oil policy and framework conditions are designed for this purpose. That is why, for example, we are also using strict economic instruments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Companies already have a strong economic self-interest in taking over risks related to future market developments in oil and gas as a result of climate policy measures in different countries. This is a wise way to regulate the industry. This stability has been an enormous strength for Norwegian pedestal. Despite the fact that we have high taxes and strict regulations related to the environment and safety, there is still a great deal of interest in searching, expanding and producing on Norwegian soil. The government is constantly working to facilitate the further development of our main industry. It is not right, as the representative Barth Eide indicates, that the government has not clarified its oil policy towards Stortinget. In the context of the presentation of the proposal for the expansion of the Johan Sverdrup and Johan Castberg fields in 2015 and 2018 respectively, the Government has submitted notification parts with the status of the petroleum industry and the government's petroleum policy. What is right is that, in good Norwegian tradition, this is based on Melding. Paragraph 28 for 2010–2011. Three pillars have been throughout the petroleum policy pursued by the government: stable and predictable framework conditions, the allocation of attractive search areas and active efforts in research and development, where we also focus on clean, energy-efficient and profitable production, an efficient and competitive petroleum industry and good interaction with the other users of the sea. Petroleum industry has just suffered a severe recession. Government policy has contributed to the recovery of industry from the crisis. In the future, we will continue to hold a rough course and facilitate the highest possible values for the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1971	I thank you for your answer. It is true that there is and has been a broad consensus on the main characteristics of the petroleum industry, and it is also well reported that, among other things. in the proposition on the development and operation of Johan Castberg came up with a status for the industry. But a review of the status is in my head something other than a petroleum message. There's a kind of loophole about where we stand, but what we're asking for is a new message that can build on the message that our government made in 2011. I interpret it so that the answer to the question is that no, you don't. I ask the question again: Has there not been any new information in addition to the one we had then, regarding both the speed of climate change and the development of new technologies and opportunities, which makes it wise now to try to bring together a broadest possible majority in the Storting on a comprehensive idea of how to take this industry into the next chapter?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1978	I perceive that there is a broad majority in Stortinget, and I point out that in 2015 and 2018 what I perceive has been done is the tradition in this room. They have updated and provided additional messages and built on what is in the Message. Paragraph 28 for 2010–2011.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1983	The previous questions have focused on many challenges and opportunities that lie in and in relation to the entire industry. Many of the previous questions were about carbon capture and storage and the enormous potential for economic development – the importance for climate policy and also the importance for industry itself and its future. In addition, we can talk about the development of sea wind, solar energy, the electrification of transport, marine minerals, marine agriculture and hydrogen, and how all of this is related to just the competence of our most technologically advanced industry. I know that there are some students from Sandne's high school here today, and I think many of them would like to know if you can imagine that the industry that is close to where they live can also lay the foundation for the green shift, a high-tech Norway that meets the future with climate responsibility, jobs and value creation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1988	I pointed out that we've drawn this up in a good way. We've done that in Meld. St. 28 for 2010–2011, we have done that in 2015, we have done that in 2018. I think we've done this in a good way that meets the changes we're facing. The representative mentioned the climate, and we have good instruments within this framework, such as: averages the Norwegian cap among the best in the world for low greenhouse gas emissions. I also believe that through these messages, we make the importance of Norwegian pedestal visible in order to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement, where Norwegian gas is phased out into coal in the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-13.ana.ud100e1995	That being the case, it is no. 2 ended. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
