ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e39	On Monday, the Storting received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State Siv Jensen, Bent Höie and Harald T. Nesvik will meet at oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question. We then begin with the first main question, from the representative of Ingvild Kjerkol.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e48	My question goes to the Minister of Health. It's been four months since the operator change in the Ambulance Aviation Service. It has been demonstrated that the new operator does not yet meet the contingency requirements of the contract. The county doctor in Troms and Finnmark has pointed out that pilot shortages are a major challenge for rapid assistance. Four out of ten pilots are missing, for example: in the Churchnes. There are currently no signs of improvement, and there is still uncertainty when stable operation can be without emergency interruption. This is a big challenge. Recruitment is not good enough and needs to be resolved. Citizens, patients and not least health care locally must be provided with the ambulance flight service they need. Both the Air Ambulance Service and Babcock confirm the problems and have provided detailed information on the manning situation and back-up solutions. The new operator has found that they are too understaffed to be able to handle standby pilots, i.e. rear guard systems. Winter time is coming, but we see a situation of emergency where normal operations cannot be expected until the summer of 2020, a whole year after a new operator took over. What will the Council of State do to ensure the safety of the population during the winter and up to the summer?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e61	We're not satisfied with today's situation. As the representative is familiar with, I have introduced daily reporting requirements from the HF Air ambulance service. I had a meeting on Monday morning with the director and director of the HF Air Ambulance Service to go through the situation and discuss further actions. It is important for me to stress that patients, however, get the help they need, and we have expectations that Babcock will provide normal preparedness. In the past, there was a part related to technical challenges, especially a technical component of the navigation system, which led to aircraft being put on the ground for 30 days. This error has now been found and resolved in cooperation with the manufacturer. However, what is now the challenge is to ensure adequate pilot coverage on a part of the bases. It's working on it. I have now been confirmed that Babcock is deploying an extra plane from the next week, probably in Alta, which will be operational 12 hours a day. It will also be designed to land on the runways and preferably has pilots who can do so. In addition, we consider further measures. The emergency coverage is now above 90 p.m., also in October. That is not good enough, and that means that we are also considering introducing further measures in addition to what I have described now.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e68	Governments are clearly in contact with the operator and those in charge of the Air Ambulance Service. That's good. But the government has on several occasions told the Storting that there is a rear guard scheme with pilots that can be deployed in the event of sudden illness, with one crew in Alta at night and one on the Gardermoen in the daytime. This has not been done before, so it is a quality improvement in the new contract. But the arrangement to which the Council of State refers is not in place. The Council of State refers to what is on the paper, in the contract, not what is actually prepared, four months into a new contract. Why does the Council of State not inform about the real preparedness for which people and health professionals in the north are concerned? And have you also received guarantees from the operator that he can bring to the square today?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e73	It is true that the new contract contains a better follow-up arrangement than the one in the previous contract. However, there have been challenges, as the representative is concerned, in getting that rear guard system to become available enough, including: because of where existing pilots have their place of employment. As of today, Babcock has a reverse guard system for short-haul aeroplanes with a total of 15 standby pilots – 14 on the Gardermoen and one in Tromsø. This distribution is not in line with the agreed offer, and this is also part of the negotiation theme between Babcock and the local pilot association.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e78	It is opened for follow-up questions – first Ingvild Kjerkol.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e83	The Government has taken the following decision: ‘The government is asking for the public/ideal operation of the Air ambulance Service’. shall describe challenges with the current organisation of the service, review experience with operator switching and describe models for future operations. From the Labour Party we have criticised the State Council for not including operational professionals in this group. Then we have received assurances about a good process, with broad involvement, in response. Now we see that the contact this group of experts has with the professionals who work operationally and meet patients is rather economical. The trade unions are fed off with 15 minutes of meetings. How is the Council of State going to make us believe in this process when those in the service meet patients and report non-serious deviations are not included in the further work?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e88	Any deviations reported shall be taken seriously. It's the clear message both Health North and the Air ambulance service HF has given. With regard to the composition of the expert group, the expert group has long and extensive experience in this service. What the expert group is not is a group of parties representing the social partners. Nor will it be, but I have been very clear in the mandate and mission of the group that they should also involve, among other things. The trade unions and listen to their experiences. I had a separate meeting with the Norwegian Pilot Federation on this matter, and in the follow-up to that meeting I have given feedback to the expert group that they must ensure that the involvement in the mandate is ensured.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e95	Kjersti Top – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e100	Finnmark is the loser in ambulance flybags, which comes from a scandalous bidding process. Four months have passed since the change in operator, winter has come, and Babcock still does not meet the emergency requirements of the contract. During the last two weeks of October, the Kirkenes aircraft had 68 hours of standby, the Alta 1 aircraft had 43 hours of shut-off, and the Alta 2 aircraft had 32 hours of shut-off. This is miles from the requirement of the contract, and it is currently not a sign of union. It is still uncertain when people in Finnmark can expect stable operations in the air ambulance service, which is so important for safety, life and health. The question is whether the Minister of Health will now be honest and answer as to when the people of Finnmark can expect a normal and good ambulance flight readiness and what time the Minister of Health will take.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e108	We have always been honest about this and have been clear that an operator change will be challenging. It was also the last time an operator change was carried out. Then it was the existing operator, Air Transport AS, who also won the continuation of the contract, but despite it it went one year in the transition phase before one was in normal operation. Now has a change of operator. This means that there are both planned measures, which were taken in July, when one knew that conditions were going to be the most difficult, while also introducing different additional measures. So I said we had expectations that this would improve faster than it has. Therefore, additional measures are now being put in place. A new aeroplane is preferably placed in Alta, with 12 hours of standby, which can also mainly land on the runway network. In addition, I continuously assess whether there is a need to deploy even more extra resources in Finnmark to ensure preparedness in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e117	Kjersti Top – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e122	In South Varanger Avis today, there is a new technical problem that was not there before the change of operator, namely that ambulance aircraft will be struggling with fog landing in Finnmark all winter due to a useless so-called ground alert system in the aircraft, which means that the ambulance flights are currently unable to land on the Finnmark coast in both dark and poor visibility. It is the HF air ambulance service that has required this system in the supply. The problem was that the system didn't have the north of 70 degrees. An improved version, we can read about, won't come to spring. This is evidence of a lack of purchasing skills, and that the offer should have been stopped, as the boat ambulance offer was. The question is what the Minister of Health will do in this really quite unreal situation, where the ambulance flights in Finnmark cannot land in the dark and in poor visibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e129	There have been challenges with the new navigation system. Part of it's fixed up. What was required was just getting a navigation system that did not depend on GPS signals, such as those in Finnmark, for example. has been jammed and has created challenges for the service in the past. I expect, of course, that if new technical challenges arise, they will be solved, and that someone will take that into account. What's important is that we make sure that it's all well-prepared, and that this doesn't affect patients. It is still the case – that you have managed to have a readiness to do so that this has not affected patients’ lives and health.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e138	Bears Moxnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e143	Ambulance aeroplanes have much lower availability and regularity than before the operator change. This is a long-established crisis, and it is due to the government's tendering policy. Now it is winter in the north, with snow showers, smooth tracks, wind and difficult aviation conditions. We can't stick with an airplane park that has so big technical problems, and a delivery that's as unstable as it is now. It could quickly lead to danger to life and health for people in the north. At Langnes in Tromsø, five aircraft are parked that left the service when air transport lost the offer and lost the contract this summer. Those planes have good regularity, they've been flying north for many years, and the pilots know these planes. Will Bent Höie start negotiations with a view to renting these ambulance planes, so that we can recover through the winter with ambulance planes available, technically, 24 hours a day, all winter?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e150	My main interest in this case is to ensure that patients are offered good offers and not to ensure the best possible conditions for a limited liability company such as Air Transport AS, which is clearly the main exposure of the representative of Moxnes in this case. What is important is simply to make sure that we have available resources that we can deploy when necessary, and we consider that. We've previously deployed defence helicopters in the Kirkenes, and we're looking at all the other types of measures we're going to put in. By now in October, readiness has been on the top of 90 pst. That's not good enough, and we have to go higher than that. This means that additional measures are now being put in place, and there may be measures that will not be provided by Babcock, but by other actors. That's also something we're evaluating right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e157	Bears Moxnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e162	It's an eye-catching arrogance from a state council that's responsible for a process that has led to much worse availability for ambulances for people in the north than it was before the operator change. There have been warnings from the Finnmark Medical Association. They're deeply concerned that if something serious happens to a patient, it might say about the patient's life because we've had a process that has led to much worse availability for ambulance planes than it was before the change. When this is the case, the Council of State should have a degree of humility in relation to the criticism that comes, and not least be more forward-looking in terms of providing and securing solutions to ensure that the service is available 24 hours a day throughout the winter and that the aeroplanes operate technically. I want to repeat the question, which is about actually ensuring patients' safety: will Höie consider hiring in aircraft that we know from experience works in the service?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e171	The main challenge for the emergency situation is now to have many enough available pilots in the locations and bases that we are going to have. There are negotiations between the company and the pilots' association, and I respect that. There are negotiations going on. If these go out in time, we'll consider putting in extra resources, as well as resources we pick up outside of Babcock, but that's what we're now assessing. Already from the next week, additional resources will be deployed in the form of an aeroplane that can mainly also land on the short track, which will preferably be located in Alta, and which may be operational 12 hours a day. We also assess measures beyond that. I am humble to the challenges facing the health care in the north, but I am not humble to a representative who had an alternative proposal in the Stortinget that would have meant that one had been without air ambulance preparedness in North Norway a long time ago, if it had received a majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e178	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e184	The leading emergency medical environment in Norway and the Nordic countries is located on Ullevål. Now, the Right Party government will split up this environment, despite huge warnings from doctors, nurses and surgeons – from professionals – really from all those performing the job. In this year’s government budget from the Minister of Finance, the largest commitment is the loan to build a new hospital – a 30-billion-dollar commitment. kr – 30 br. kr. Usually, so much investment goes through quality assurance, first in the department, then with the Minister of Finance. It was not done by the government at this huge investment. The Minister of Finance recommended the loan, and I'm going to challenge the Minister of Finance – and the Minister of Health afterwards. But it's nice to see Bent Höie, so he can just wait and prepare! The head of the Finance Minister's own county, the head of the Oslo Progress Party, said in the election campaign that a vote on the Progress Party is a vote to preserve Ullevål. The first candidate for the Oslo Progress Party said that a vote for the Advance Party is a vote to preserve Ullevål. So the progress party has repeated that time after time. But now the Finance Minister of the Progress Party has recommended that we in Stortinget give a loan of 30 billion. SEK to build a new hospital. Then my question – and it's really quite illustrative that it's the Right that says: Is it that the Progress Party has again been overrun by the Right? Or is it that the Minister of Finance thinks it is quite right to overrun his own people who have gone to the elections to preserve Ullevål, and to overrun all the professionals on Ullevål, who think it is very unwise to split this environment?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e191	The President has some doubts about the constitutional responsibility here, but the question is addressed to the Council of State, Siv Jensen, so please, Councillor Siv Jensen!
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e196	I think the President is right about that, because it is clearly the Minister of Health who is going to answer questions about Oslo University Hospital. But I can answer that the budget that the government put before the Storting is, of course, a budget that is well adapted, and where we have found room to grant money for a wide variety of purposes, to expand and strengthen health care for the inhabitants or to expand more infrastructure and keep focus on competitiveness. Of course, all the government budgets that come from a government are made up of a total government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e201	The supplementary question goes to Bent Höie, because it is quite clear that this policy is governed by the Right and not by the Progress Party. The Progress Party drove advertising campaigns the week before the election that a vote for the Progress Party was a voice to preserve Ullevål Hospital, but obviously one cannot trust the promises of the Progress Party in a election campaign – we have had this experience for six years now. Then one could rather ask the question to those who actually have the power of government: Right. Now there is a new performance project to be run through with the Right in the driver’s seat. You forced through the Viken, even though there were huge counter-conceptions against the Viking, and you see what madness – I'd say – that is. With regard to what's happening on Ullevål, a community of professionals has been very, very critical of the acute medical profession. A report has been published, which the Minister of Health has certainly received. What does this report say? Well, there is a deterioration in the quality of emergency services at local, regional and national level. The same report, in the main conclusion, states that ‘the loss of quality in the operational concept appears unavoidable’. How dare Minister of Health Bent Höie to outrun the leading professional community in Norway when they say that the loss of quality is inevitable, and we know that it is going to hit people?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e212	Nor do we, and therefore has it been so that when the Health South-East Board adopted this plan in June this year, they said that in the case of the emergency functions of the new hospital in Gaustad, one should assume that it should have a population base of 200,000, which was the main feedback from the environment on Ullevål about what was important in order to maintain the competence that they all agree on, is important to maintain at the new hospital in Gaustad. The second was that one also said that in terms of the actual distribution of tasks between Gaustad and Aker, it is not final, precisely because it is still to be part of a further process in the discussions. I'm absolutely sure that one here is going to find solutions, just like one, for example. have found solutions to the supply of food, for which there was similar disagreement with regard to the division of labour between Gaustad and Aker. But what I'm registering is that the Center Party is obviously opposed to the new hospital in Aker, for which I feel that a collective Oslo is for, because that's the consequence of what the representative here is talking about.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e217	There will be follow-up questions – first Kjersti Toppe.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e222	I can say that this is not the consequence of the Senter party's proposal. I register that the Minister of Health claims the following about Oslo University Hospital in Finansavisen on November 2: ‘This is the construction project of Health South-East, not the Stortingets.’ I'm wondering what the Minister of Health really is living in, because the government has asked Stortinget, in the state budget for next year, to adopt a loan framework for the new OUS of 29.1 billion. kr. That's 29,000 million. kr. It is the largest investment in Norwegian hospital history, but the only time the government presents the case to the Stortinget, the Council of State says that this is not the Stortinget construction project, but that it is Health South-East. The question is whether this was what opposition politician Bent Höie meant in 2011, when he said he would move power over the most important hospital decisions from the faceless bureaucrats to popular politicians.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e234	Yes, and I have followed that through the National Health and Hospital Plan. The first has been adopted by the Stortinget. The structure of Hospital-Norway has been defined. The second plan is coming soon, and the Stortinget will then have much to discuss about the contents of the hospitals. I look forward to that. It will ensure a completely different political and democratic anchoring of the development of Hospital-Norway, just as the previous National Health and Sickness Plan has done. But I have never suggested changing the way you are responsible for investment between the state and health companies. Unlike part of the other State investment projects, health regions are responsible for the investment projects. The size takes a decision on the loan framework, simply because health care companies are not allowed to borrow money from anywhere other than the country. The responsibility for the construction project lies in Health South-East. It's exactly the same way that when we build hospitals in Hammerfest, Molde, Stavanger, Förde, Bergen, Tromsø and everywhere else we have construction projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e243	Kjersti Top – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e248	Unlike the hospitals in the other cities referred to by the Minister of Health, the new hospital in Oslo is a hospital that professionals do not want and that gets massive criticism, both when it comes to the economic, the professional, the regulation and the legal. That's the big difference. Lawyers and local politicians from their own party, Anne Christine Kroepelien, have pointed out that there is a violation of the state's own direction of distribution, among others. the state's own hospital planning director. There was no development plan until many years after the project was started. There is not yet a complete plan of action, and there is still no consistency according to the rules of the Planning and Building Act. Does the Council of State deny that early phase guidance is broken at these points, and how can the Council of State defend this?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e255	The note from the local politician in Oslo to which the representative referred actually makes the same mistake as the representative does. One assumes that this is an ordinary State investment project, which is managed in the same way as, for example: the projects under the responsibility of State Building. It's not. We have a business model in healthcare that makes this different. This is where the basic error is made, both by the representative and in the note to which the representative referred. So I'm not completely familiar when the representative makes it like it's just joy and fun around all the other construction projects I referred to, and not any discussions. On the contrary: hospital buildings and investments in hospitals create commitment and discussion. Most of the projects I have referred to are different views. If we're going to build hospitals in Norway, the people of Oslo are going to have health services that they need, we're actually going to have to get started on this project. The proposal of the Central Party to postpone this will seriously affect the population, not only in Oslo, but also in the rest of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e263	Bears Moxnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e268	Red will, as the majority of Oslo City Councillors, expand Aker as a local hospital for the whole of Groruddalen, and not least preserve Ullevål Hospital, which a collective trade union community supports us in. It's because they see Bent Höie's plan is to split the emergency hospital Ullevål into two and divide the environment between Aker and Gaustad, which means that serious and critically ill, dying patients are transported along ring 3 between two different emergency environments and two different hospitals. There is one clear indication: do not break the emergency medical chain that is currently being gathered in one place, namely on Ullevål. It is therefore a collective trade union environment on the strongest warning against Bent Höie's plans. Can Bent Höie go in for as big an investment as 29 billion? kr without the option, namely to expand Aker and build a new one on Ullevål, has been sufficiently explored?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e275	That's adequately evaluated, and we know the consequences of that option. Building a collective new hospital on Ullevål, collecting regional hospital functions there and moving from the Rikshospital, will cost up to 12 billion. kr more and take many years extra to expand. It may sound as if the representative is in charge of building a whole new hospital in Aker without any employees currently on Ullevål moving with them – even if the population is moved to Aker. That would be quite dramatic for the rest of Norway, because that means that Oslo will again drain the rest of Norway for skills that are lacking. They will then move to Oslo, start working in a completely new hospital, and you will have another challenge related to recruitment in the rest of Norway. It's a model that may well be that some Oslo politicians think is offensive, but for the Storting, who is responsible for the whole country, I would warn very strongly against such a solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e282	Bears Moxnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e287	It's with respect to not reporting correctly, to say it a little neat and parliamentary. Of course, when you move the districts of Grorud, Stovner, Alna and Bjerke finally back to Aker as a local hospital, you also have to move the staff back to the hospital to serve the new urban structure that we're going to get in Oslo. They want to let go of being sent as throwing balls between Aarhus, Ullevål and other hospitals. They want Aker as their local hospital. I hear the Council of State doesn't go into the heavy objections of an all-out medical profession, the most important thing we have in our country, and that we're totally dependent on having in one place together. In the event of a major disaster, in the event of a major terrorist attack, in the event of major accidents, we must have one door in which all the professionals are gathered in one place and can immediately save life and health. The environment will now be split into two and divided into two hospitals. How can it be more prudent than today's overall solution to Ullevål Hospital?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e294	The representative here gives a description that is not correct. Today, the environment is split in two – between Ullevål and the Rikshospitalet. This means that in Oslo, life-threatening sick patients are transported between two hospitals in a critical phase. To put it that way: if I have a stroke, I hope that I'm home in Stavanger, because it's the hospital that provides help and follow-up in that area as quickly as possible. In Oslo, you can risk getting to the wrong place, simply because the trade union environment is divided between two places. Of course, it is a challenge to compensate for as much as possible, but it is a challenge – not only for the population of Oslo, but also for the rest of the population of Health South-East – that the regional functions that are sometimes time-critical are shared between two hospitals. That's exactly what we're getting fixed up with this. At the same time, you will take care of the trauma environment, which is currently on Ullevål. It has to move to Gaustad, where you're now working to make sure that that's exactly what's going to happen. Not least, the population base is important, and we have already established that it should be based on 200,000.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e299	Sheida Sangtarash - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e304	When it comes to all questions about professional environments, I first have to explain what I mean by professional environments. In fact, I mean those who work directly with patients. We have seen that the trauma environment, when consulted on the state budget, expressed its concern, yet the Council of State writes in its reply to the current proposal for a representative that the professional community has been consulted. Then I'd like to ask the Council of State: who is the union environment for Bent Höie? And why is there so different perception of the reality of this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e309	The professional environment has been heard in two areas. One is the main objection they had in an earlier phase, that they needed a population base of 200,000 to maintain trauma functions. They've been listening to that. It has now been decided to provide the basis for the emergency reception at Gaustad. They have also been heard by the absence of any final conclusions on the worksharing between Gaustad and Aker, where there should be a further process. One cannot claim that one has not been heard, as long as no conclusions have been drawn, but if one believes that one should have a new, large emergency hospital in Aker without any of those who are working acutely with these patients today, to move to Aker, it means, as I said in my previous answer, that one actually says that these people are to be picked up from hospitals in other parts of the country, and that I would warn very strongly against. That kind of experience had one when a built-up ahus and didn't move people from Oslo University Hospital over there, even though part of the population moved over. It went beyond the recruitment to the hospital in the rest of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e316	Sheida Sangtarash - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e321	What's happening in the Ullevål case is the shortest way to people's sense of renunciation. When both popular involvement and professional environments are ignored, and when the Council of State even signals that local democracy in Oslo city government will have no meaning, I wonder why it has so little meaning to the opinion of the people in Oslo and the opinion of the elected members of the city council in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e327	It's been very important. That's what's one of the main explanations that this solution has been chosen. It was Oslo Municipality's hearing opinion when the plans were to build a gigantic hospital in Gaustad, which meant that one ended up with this solution. It was the majority in Oslo City Council that pointed to the solution that you are now going for. In all the crossroads where this case has been consulted, Oslo City Council has supported this solution, and not only that, they have also started the construction of a metropolitan guard on Aker as a result of this solution. The Oslo University Hospital User Committee supports this solution. The Health South-East user selection supports this solution. So the representation that no one has been heard here, that this is not anchored, is wrong. It's a professional environment that's now very critical, and we've said that we're taking it very seriously. Therefore, no conclusions have yet been reached in that field. There is still an ongoing process, so that one is sure that when the conclusions are drawn, all views are heard.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e332	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e337	On behalf of the government party, together with the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party, an explanation was started of how a taxing of the basic interest rate in the aquaculture industry should be designed. This is, of course, the industry that goes best in the whole country, and that experiences super-profit based on the use of its communities of fjords and coasts. The Ulltveit-Moe selection is unanimous in the fact that there is a fair and reasonable amount of tax that makes the super-profit as the salmon industry today benefit the coastal communities and the community. NHO, LO, municipalities and professors are unanimous in the fact that the industry is new to Norway's fantastic sea area, and the community is getting marginally back to it. It has now become a gift package from the community that has accumulated enormous wealth on a few hands. Differences in selection are about how taxation should be designed. I thought both models could work; the most important thing for SV is that wealth from the community's resources should benefit the coastal communities and the community. Our common natural resources will never be allowed to become a dairy just for the few – they will benefit everyone. That's exactly how we've done it with oil and the hydropower. But the government party does not see its community's interests, nor in this matter, they do not defend the interests of children and young people and the elderly who daily notice the effect of poor community economy with poor supply and low crewing. They defend neither their interests nor the interests of the coastal communities. On the other hand, they defend the interests of billionaires. Once again, it's the economic elite that's going to get an ever larger share of the cake. Even today's businesses support the introduction of basic interest rates, a newspaper that cannot be called the voice of socialism. They say that taxing the extraordinary profits of these companies is not communism but market economy in practice. So state councillor Siv Jensen: why was this selection initially dropped?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e350	Here we move again into the Minister of Finance's unlimited constitutional responsibility, but – Councillor Jensen, please!
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e355	Let me first say that I agree with the representative of Knag County regarding the importance of this industry – for coastal communities, for value creation, for industrial development, for export income and for tax revenue. It is an important industry, which we must treat with the greatest seriousness, and this government is committed to ensuring that we have good and competitive framework conditions for doing business in Norway. In the case of the Maritime Tax Committee, a prehistory was set down. It started with a proposal from SV, which wanted to introduce a production fee. It would, in the opinion of many people, be an unfortunate way of taxing, simply because it would not take into account whether the companies were going through deficits or profits, but that resulted in a majority of the government asking for a sample. The government did. We got the investigation, the public investigation, on Monday. When I accepted it, I underlined – point one – the importance and point two of the industry – the importance that the values created in this industry should benefit the population in different ways, and that of course we should also take care of the interests of the coastal communities. But I sent it out to the hearing without the government having taken a decision on the content of it. It is a very normal practice over many, many years for public investigations to be consulted. It is right, as the representative says, that three of the government parties have expressed themselves very clearly against such a way of taxing the industry. But now it's at the hearing, so that we can get input, opinions and feedback from both the majority's recommendation and the minority's recommendation. But at least I can assure the representative that this government is taking coastal communities and the interests of ordinary people seriously. That is precisely why nine out of ten dollars above the state budget is going to safeguard the interests of the citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e366	It seems to me that the state council here is open that even if the government party at their national meetings has decided not to introduce such a kind of taxing, then the government may be open to it. Now it is to be sent out on a ring. So that's an open question, and that's interesting. For this proposal, the original Council of State was Siv Jensen, and the selection was made is a kind of combination of Siv Jensen and Knag Fylkesnes's proposals – a mixture of production fees and tax surpluses. That is the question to the Council of State: is there any potential for the government to go in to introduce a tax on the super-profit that the industry is experiencing, given that they are using the community's resources, and that this will benefit the coastal communities and the community?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e373	It is formal that a government council responds to the Storting and not to parties' national meetings. That means that when the Storting has asked the government to put down a sample, I have to follow it up and come back to Stortinget, in line with the decision that the Storing has made. I have been asked to come back with a matter about this spring 2020, and I intend to do so. What the content of that matter is, the government has not taken a decision, but as I said in my previous answer: Three of the government parties have expressed strong opposition to this. But we must therefore review – the views of the parties, the views of the hearing – before the government concludes and returns to the Stortinget, in line with the decision taken by the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e380	It is open for follow-up questions – first Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e385	This is a very interesting answer. My follow-up question goes to Minister of Fisheries Nesvik. At the same time as the government shoots down that the most profitable industry of all in Norway, the farming industry, must experience an increase in taxation because they use the resources of the community, the government party goes in to introduce a land-interest tax on fishing – that's fine. It is not a good thing to take it where it is the greatest profit, but for people along the coast, fishermen, etc., a land-interest tax must be introduced, in the form that part of the allowances by structuring should be allocated to a quota bank, etc., with a proceeds – which is a form of rent – to the state. Can the Council of State Nesvik try to explain why the Stortinget should not tax the very richest in the marine industries, but that one should, on the other hand, tax the least profitable of all marine industries?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e394	First of all, it's not right, the representative of Knag Fylkesnes says that the aquaculture industry is not taxed. Key figures for 2018 just showed that the industry had a tax of 5.5 billion. kr, in addition to the Maritime Fund. So it's not right not to be taxed. With regard to the issue of the holding of allowances relating to structural allowances, this is because, among other things, in the context of the structure of the holding of allowances: have received an offer that, if you receive an extra 15 years, you get a discount for what goes into a stock of allowances, which you have to buy out, so that you can, for example: have more resources related to the resources used by the public in the management, control, etc. So we don't think this is a basic interest tax, but simply a payment because you get to reap the way you do.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e401	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e407	This underlines our point: the richest should not be taxed, but for ordinary fishermen along the coast, one should introduce a tax. To get numbers from the Ulltveit-Moe selection, only 3 pst. as the selection thinks is taxed. A whole selection – all the actors, and there are people from NHO, LO and the municipalities, there are professors, etc. I think it's under-estimated here. But when it comes to fishing, you don't see the same super-profit. One does not see the same reason why the community is going to get more, because one has a natural taxation because the values are going to benefit the community. So the question back is of a purely principleal nature: how can the Council of State, as Minister of Fisheries, sit down and see that one from the state's side is running such a lopsided distribution between those who have much, and those who have little?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e414	In terms of taxation, the constitutional responsibility of the Minister of Finance is, so I'm going to try to stick to fisheries policy. As far as the aquaculture industry is concerned, I would like to repeat: the aquaculture industry pays considerable sums to the public, both through the Maritime Fund and through the farm tax you have. In 2018, it was 5.5 billion. kr, as the key figures show. In addition, an enormous amount of work is also being done in the population. Real-estate taxes are linked to super-profit, which results from the conditions under which you operate, and are based on a profit. For the government, it is actually the case that in the case of quota stocks, there is a structure between the different vessels, i.e. the shipping companies, which means that you get a curtailment to be in and pay to the exact community to which the representative Knag County refers – pay for administrative, control, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e421	Cecilie Myrseth – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e426	My follow-up question goes to the Minister of Finance, and it's about the sample report. This sample was dropped, and it was also supported by the Working Party. The term of office and composition shall be served by the Government. Now we have a result, you have a proposal, a majority and a minority. I think it would be very wise to discuss this properly in Stortinget. For the Workers' Party, it is essential that the Community's resources should also give something back to the community. You get the opportunity to use a resource of land. It shall also be returned. At least it shall be returned to the communities. I have not heard anything from the government about what you want to do to secure the municipalities, which actually make areas available. How to secure them? I've just heard that you're going to put this in a drawer. My question is, what does the government want to do to ensure that the municipalities receive a fixed and predictable remuneration for making land available?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e437	On the government side, we have not concluded on the public investigation that came on Monday. On the other hand, what we have done, which I have just responded to, is to send it out to the hearing, so that everyone who has views on the recommendations of the majority and minority in the public inquiry will come up with a call, and that it will form the basis for the assessments that the government is going to make before we get back to the Stortinget with our position. Three of the government parties have been very clear that they believe this is a bad proposal. Of course, the government also has to take it with us when we're going to discuss the whole of this. But it's never been a topic, neither in terms of the Biggest assumption of putting down this sample or the sample itself, that this should not happen to the municipalities. Rather, on the contrary, I think everyone thinks it should be done in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e444	Cecilie Myrseth – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e449	I understand that it may be difficult for the Minister of Finance to answer this question in view of what decisions are made in the back of national meetings, etc. But this sample is in any case down; they have made a recommendation, both a majority and a minority have made their recommendations to ensure that the community is given more resources. On the same day as you say you should send this out to the hearing, the representatives of the government parties say that this has to be put in a drawer, this is not a debate you want at all. Then it's easy to think that this is really just a skin process. My question to the Council of State is: can you understand that this process is now being described and perceived as a clean skin process?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e456	Let me first say that it is not demanding for me at all to be able to answer questions about this. The Minister of Finance follows up the decision taken by Stortinget. They've asked us to set up an expert committee, and we've done that. The public investigation is now available. In line with many years of practice, public investigations are being conducted at the hearing in order to enable everyone to comment as part of the process of democracy in Norwegian society. So it's absolutely right that the different parties have different positions in this case, three of the government parties have been very clear that this is not what they are for. But in the opposition, it cracks a lot. I've hurt to see completely how the opposition is going to be able to gather about a common answer on this question. I think we get the debate on this when the government comes to Stortinget with its proposals and recommendations.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e461	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e466	My question goes to the Minister of Finance. As the Minister of Finance is well aware, unfortunately, the employment in Norway has fallen over time. We now have an employment rate of just over 70 p.p., which means that well over every four working-age Northmen are out of work. We have seen that there has been some growth in the last year, but growth has been weak. I am sure the Minister of Finance agrees with me that we should do everything we can to get more of these jobs and become one of the most beautiful things that exist, namely economically liberated people and taxpayers. There is a man outside work throughout the land, so we must make sure that jobs are created throughout the country. This was an important principle for the red-green government, and it led to about 65 pst. of the job growth at the time came outside Oslo and Akershus. During today's government we see of figures that by 2018 less than half of the job growth has come in the counties outside Oslo and Akershus. My question is quite simple. I want to find out what the Minister of Finance thought about this. Is it, as she sees it, right for our country that most of the job growth happens in just two states?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e477	Let me first say that I fully agree with the representative, Tajik, in the sense that as many as possible of those who are in working age are going to get to work. For this reason, this government has started the inclusion process, precisely because we need to look at the tools available to facilitate the widest possible access to the obstacles that are there for various reasons, such as: a disability situation and into the labour market. But it's also about our ability to qualify our young people, make sure that as many young people as possible complete higher education, so that they are qualified to participate in a working life that makes very strict demands on competence. I also agree that it is important that we facilitate job creation across the country, but it has to do with framework conditions. That is why this government is committed to having a competitive tax system, unlike the Workers' Party, which makes choices to increase taxes. That is why this government has strengthened the transport budget by 80 pst. Since we came into government, because we know that transport costs matter to business, especially in the districts. That is why we are focusing on research and development, and that is why we are facilitating the better functioning of the labour market. But one thing that is as important as facilitating growth across the country is that growth comes into private business. The numbers we see now are joyous. Of the 50,000 who have come to work in the last year, four out of five are employed in private business. That's good. We're going to keep doing more of what we're doing. Now it's going well in the country. It's going well all over the country. The growth comes in most industries. It's wide-ranging. Employment is rising, and unemployment is at a record low level. We're going to enjoy that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e487	There's a lot of things to rejoice about, and it's going well in the Norwegian economy. For this reason, it is the vote to see that the Minister for Finance does not have a good answer on how to secure job growth in the districts. What the Minister of Finance is doing is showing the framework conditions. It refers to a cut in taxes on wealth, which has had no documented effect when it comes to creating more jobs, which it has admitted. The numbers I referred to in my previous question, stop by 2018, but the number for 2019 so far, compared to the same time last year, is even worse. Then it was only 35 pst. of the job growth that happened outside Oslo and Akershus, i.e. a total of 10 percentage points lower than before. We who come from places where there are both fjords and mountains, cannot help but see that the government has managed to turn its own anti-district policies into employment growth. I would like to ask the Minister of Finance: when they have not been able to do so until now, but rather, on the contrary, has the growth in employment in the districts weakened, why should we believe in you now?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e494	I don't share that reality description. All the facts we have available show that the growth of the Norwegian economy is widespread, coming in all industries and across the country. It is also the case that many of the districts have the lowest unemployment rate. It's a sign that people are at work. At least it is a prerequisite for us to be able to create more jobs, more businesses, that the framework conditions are good. Then tax policy matters, even though the Workers' Party later does not matter. Then our ability to invest in infrastructure matters. There are two things companies are busy when I meet them. One thing they're talking about is tax, and the other thing they're talking about is transportation. This government delivers on both sides because we know that this means something to the framework conditions in order to invest its capital in Norway. Then we have to make sure that capital is invested here and not in our neighboring country, because that's where we want the businesses to be born, and that's where we want the growth in employment to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e499	It is open for follow-up questions – first Hadia Tajik.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e504	I only record that the Minister of Finance does not share my concerns about the jobs in the districts. It is now that more than 10 000 jobs have been lost in 120 small municipalities from 2015 to 2018. So there's a bunch of municipalities that are just going to be negative. Now it's not just the central eastern region that's a hallmark of most of the new jobs that come. The second characteristic is that very many of the new jobs go to hired foreign workers. It should worry the government that the renting industry is back to the level before the oil price drop, while production is not. This means that you have had a sharp decrease in the number of your own additions. What we see now is structural changes in industry, which is not just about having a different economic situation. My question to the Minister of Finance is how she will ensure that the growth of employment does not continue to go as far as just hired foreign labour as we see today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e511	The question of hiring out labour must almost be addressed to the appropriate Council of State. I still don't share the reality description of Hadia Tajik. The vast majority of those employed in Norway today are in permanent employment. It's a policy that we agree we should have. When the representative uses statistics in the way she does, she does well to look at what happened in 2014, the fall in oil prices, which had quite dramatic consequences for a large number of companies and employees across the South and West. It's clear that it had consequences. This government put in place immediate measures, which helped us to get through the consequences of the oil price drop in a very short time. Now the Norwegian economy has been growing, rising, since 2017, which has given us record low unemployment and high employment. This means that we now need to use the possibilities to facilitate more of those who are out of work. And then our recommendation to the companies is when they need labour: call Nav, not the staff agencies.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e520	Hadia Tajik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e525	The Minister of Finance clearly does not agree that it is a problem that the growth of employment has been primarily in Oslo and Akershus. Nor does she agree that renting seems to be a problem for parts of the industry in Norway today. The finance minister says that there is a high employment rate in Norway, but the truth is that we also lack at least 50,000 more jobs for just reaching the average for the last ten years. I'm not going to say that's very impressive. When you count an average, it's a good year and a bad year. Then there are posthumous things from both the financial crisis and the oil price fall combined with the boom. Nevertheless, the right-hand rule is below the average. When we are all at the same time some people say that things are going well in the Norwegian economy, how will the Minister of Finance explain that the government still does not get it when the business cycle is under way? Why, then, are we well below the employment average anyway?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e534	Once again, the Labour Party is trying to talk about a situation that is not really there. Yes, we agree that growth in the employment share has been a challenge for many years. However, it is relatively good in Norway compared to many other countries, although of course it is a meager comfort. The main challenge in our labour market now, with so low unemployment and an increase in employment, is that many of our businesses lack skilled labour. It is then incredibly important to facilitate interaction between Norwegian authorities and businesses, so that they dare to give more people who have been on the outside of the labour market a chance to get in. This is precisely why we have invested so many resources in inclusion, because it is absolutely vital that people who have either a hole in the CV or a challenge with drugs, a mental disorder or some other problem should have the opportunity to be seen and show their ability to work in Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e541	Per Olaf Lundtigen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e546	The central party believes that it is the Stortinget who is to control the labour market. We're going to have full employment, we're going to have Norwegian pay and work conditions. That's the core of our Society-Norway model instead of a Difference-Norway. Uncontrolled labour immigration from countries with poor pay and working conditions radically changes the Norwegian labour market and the labour market today. An increasing number of occupational groups are experiencing this. My question is: Does the Minister of Finance think that uncontrolled labour migration facilitates greater or lesser differences in income between people living in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e553	I do not think anyone is too uncontrolled for labour immigration, and I am not quite sure where the representative has it from that we have uncontrolled labour immigration to Norway. What actually happened in the context of the 2014 oil price drop was that very many people who had migrated to Norway left Norway because jobs disappeared. Now we're on our way back into a situation that I just said to the representative, Hadia Tajik, how many companies report that they lack skilled labour. And then the question is, what do they do? The government encourages them to take part in the inclusion process and to help many of those who have long been outside the Norwegian labour market to get in and to choose that way rather than to recruit outside labour. But when that is said, it is very important that we have to have orderly working conditions for employees in Norway, whether they come from one country or another. I believe we are facilitating this through the arrangements we have set up in the labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e561	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e566	Siv Jensen – and the Progress Party – has since been Minister of Finance, both increasing the level of taxes in Norway and introducing new taxes, and has seen processes in place to introduce new taxes. Fishing and farming are important and profitable district industries. The government's response is a desire to drag a larger part of the wealth creation into the treasury. In particular, this increases government taxes on the use of natural resources. For fisheries, it has already been proposed by the government to introduce an additional State sock tax in the form of something called a State quota bank. It is in reality a ‘snick taxification’ of the fishing industry. For farming, a public distribution has just been carried out, which concludes with two things: that the farming industry in Norway must be imposed a new state extra tax of 40 p.p., and that one should take money that is currently going to the coastal municipalities, and re-prioritize it for the benefit of the State. The question is whether the Council of State will ensure the safety and stability of the industry and farming communities. Do you want a large part of the value creation to remain in coastal communities, or should this be transferred for the benefit of the state treasury? The second is how you look at having a harder government taxing of the use of natural resources for district industries as well. I will make the question simple and concrete: is the State Council and not least the party leader in the Progress Party, Siv Jensen, for or against a new state extra tax for the farming industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e577	I have actually answered all the questions that came from the representative Pollestad in this post. We have received a public inquiry, which has now been sent to the hearing in line with very common practice. I have also explained that three of the government parties, including my own, have clearly stated that they are against this. But as Minister of Finance, I have received a mission from the Stortinget to put down this sample and come back to the Stortinget in spring 2020 with the government's proposed recommendations. What I can assure the representative Pollestad is that both I and the government are concerned that we should have competitive framework conditions for all industries operating in Norway – whether it be ordinary fishing, aquaculture or other industries, they should have good framework conditions. Of course, it's about taxes, it's about infrastructure, it's about research and development, it's about how we put up our entire education system, it's about framework conditions, and it's about predictability. In order to facilitate predictable and competitive framework conditions, this government has been doing so since it joined in 2013. We will continue to do that, regardless of what public samples recommend this government to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e584	It may well be that the Minister of Finance has responded to the question of whether she is in favour of or against a new state extra tax for the farming industry. We have seen a rather touching agreement between SV and the Progress Party in this Chamber on the same issue. But it's a fact that the municipalities are very busy with the money they get from the Maritime Fund today, and feel the insecurity that this process has seen. The distribution answers how these things can be carried out, but one must expect that the Minister of Finance has a principle approach to the question of whether a basic interest rate tax on the farming industry would be desirable, and not least if the municipalities want to secure at least the same proportion of the income from the farming industry, as is the case today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e589	Firstly, I did not perceive any touching agreement between SV and the Progress Party in the exchange of lines between the representative Knag Fylkesnes and me – rather the opposite, I would say. Secondly, I am also concerned that the municipalities should have predictability of the income they receive as a result of being host municipalities. But the Maritime Fund as such does not provide predictability for these municipalities, all the time the level, the size, of the Maritime Fund can vary greatly from one year to the next. It is, of course, more unpredictable for municipalities than if one were able to put in place a system that provides predictability of the income flows of the same municipalities every year. These are some of the questions we need to address and look at: ensuring predictability both for the municipalities and for the community. But most importantly, it is to ensure that we have good, profitable framework conditions for industries, which, after all, create jobs and great values that enable us to use them in the welfare of the state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e594	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e599	My question goes to Fisheries Minister Nesvik. We have a government that likes to talk nice about the coast. It's fine in itself, but the most important thing is that you have actions that stand by the words. This budget may not have been a big victory for the Minister of Fisheries in the government's internal drawdowns, because the state budget is not exactly a gift package to the coast. Nor does it seem that you want to take over the reactions you see along the coast, that this will both have consequences for processing and for many communities around, which are very important if you are to develop the country, and not least have jobs across the country, including along the coast. One of the major topics we've discussed is the leadership grant. We had a round about it a few weeks ago also here in Stortinget, with the Prime Minister. I'm not sure if anyone was that much wiser about it, but now we have the Minister of Fisheries here, so maybe we can get some proper answers. For what emerged from the hearing of the business committee from the stakeholders concerned was that removing the lead grant would have such a significant impact that many receptions would have to be cut off. The answer has been that you should only give it to the sales teams, so they should fix this. They don't go that way. Priorities have to be made there too – you can probably last a few years, max, but you have to give priority between control and reception. So my question to Nesvik is, what should be a priority if you think the sales teams are going to finance this scheme? Do you have to give priority to control, as you need it, or receive it along the whole coast?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e608	There will now be a consultation related to the regulation on the use of withdrawn funds, which is currently in the hands of the sales teams. The activities of the sales teams are linked to monopoly activities on the first hand placing of fish on the market in Norway, and we believe that the lead grant is part of the marketing of fish. In this respect, it will appear from the government that it is not possible to use funds for leadership grants, but to use funds for leadership grants. Substantial funds — total funds, but also every year — are being taken. It is not necessarily the case that these confiscated funds are linked to illegalities, as I have seen that some people have misunderstood it through the media. There may be too large throws within the ring-fleet, which means that you have higher off-takes than the quota is intended, and there may be other conditions on the basis. But it may also be that you have discovered things that are not going to happen. That's why we just sent it out to the hearing. How to set it up will be related to the case, but you have to allocate funds for leadership grants that are tailored to the business and the need that is out there, and it is just the sales laws that are a very good player to do. They already have monopoly activities on first-hand sales in Norway, and they also have what they have to do with control measures in relation to resource control. Then we believe that the sales teams can do that job, and that money is spent on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e619	Obviously, you should spend more time along the coast than you do, because you don't listen to the realities that are actually there. The reality of the government’s proposal is that you have to cut off reception along the coast, or you have to cut back on other activities, such as: control. That's what comes as a very clear feedback. For example, the Minister for Fisheries has to say that: The raw fish team doesn't know what they're talking about, or maybe you should listen an extra time. But I want to ask you something else, which is also of great importance, and it is about the rules for the lay-offs for industry, because you want to restrict the rules for the lay-offs for industry. Seafood Norway says very clearly that the reasons for the government are completely wrong and will cause less processing and more uncertainty along the coast. My question is therefore: Does the Minister for Fisheries think that Seafood Norway is wrong in its assessment?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e626	First of all, the Permitting Code is another State Council that is constitutionally responsible for, not signed, but I will try to answer a few of the questions that the representative Myrseth has in his statement. So once again, the representative concludes that the management grant should be removed. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. It will be clear from the government that the sales teams will finance the leadership grant, according to what I just said in my previous response. In the case of the rules on permitting, there is a legislation related to it. There will also be exceptional provisions. If we, for example, looking at the situation we had with algal blooms before and during the summer, one could do more within just that exception. As far as other things are concerned, there are proposals to go down from 52 to 26 weeks, as other industries have. But it is also important in every industry that we make sure that we do not lock in labour, which is also an important topic.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e635	It opens for follow-up questions – first Cecilie Myrseth.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e641	There are two things we have tried to get answers to. One is what you think about the leadership grant. Obviously you don't listen to the industry and what they say is the consequence of government policy. I think that's with all due respect. You don't have to listen to the Workers' Party, but at least you should listen to those who have shoes on, and they say that this is the consequence, whether you like it or not. My question is then: does the Minister for Fisheries think that the Raw Fish Team has not understood the consequences of this proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e646	I don't know how many times I have to answer the same question, but I'll answer again. We are not going to wind up the lead grant scheme. We are going to change the system so that the lead grant is paid out by the sales laws, which have monopoly activities linked to the first hand placing on the market of fish. It belongs naturally there. It will show that there will still be a lead grant, and then you will have to come back to the device.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e651	Cecilie Myrseth – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e656	I will continue to ask until the Minister takes over the realities and actually answers the question properly. You say this is going to continue, but then the industry itself says no, you can't do that. Then the Minister for Fisheries continues to say that – yes, you can, because we have decided. My question is then: How long can you continue with the leadership grant based on the funds that are there today?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e661	First of all, the state budget for this matter is for treatment in Stortinget, so the representative Myrseth may be allowed to make both his written comments and read other comments related to this. I have great respect for Stortinget and Stortingen's work. As regards the issue of the leadership grant itself, it will, among other things: depending on the amount of funds collected each year, but already today, at the Fisheries Sales Act, there is a significant amount of funds collected as a result of this on the Sales Act's accounts, inter alia. What the law on sales has said and, among other things, what the law on sales has said. at least the funds that are locked there today will last for a given period of time, and then new funds will have to be used to maintain this. Every year, you get situations with withdrawn funds. The driving aid — once again — shall continue, however, with another device.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e668	Geir Pollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e673	When you experience that one gets the same question over and over again, it might as well be that the answer is a little inexhaustible, as if there's something wrong with it. When one cuts over 20 million. In an arrangement on the state budget, there is something suspicious about a team being very firm about this not having consequences. Then it's natural to ask – and we ask for a guarantee of this: will the lead for years to come be added to a level that allows one to maintain the receptions that you have today, and will this happen in a way that does not frame the resource control that the salsa should fund from the same pot?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e680	This country is composed in such a way that the government is the executive body and the Storting is the legislative and granting assembly. This means that it is a result that, among other things: will come through the budget. This is a proposal that has been added to the budget, and it is the decision of the Stortinge that will lead to how we spend this money. It's not the government's. The government has to do whatever the Storting says. What we are proposing through the budget proposal is a modification of the system's system, by removing the direct grant from the State budget and instead by using funds collected from the fish sales laws under the Fisheries Sales Act and by financing it there. We're not going to change that it's going to be paid for leadership grants, but the way in which the device is, we're going to propose to change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e687	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e692	In a known style from Progress Party states councils, one does not answer questions, one tries to avoid it, one does not take responsibility, one pushes it, one points to others. It's kind of the way a classic FrP acts, also on this question. The fact is that one has a stroke of leadership, one has now left it to the salsalag to finance this through intruded funds. The balance says that one within two to three years cannot finance this. It's simply a cancellation of a scheme that goes back many, many decades, and that one has gone on because one actually gets ten times back in value. For $24 million. kr gets one over 230 million. kr back in values. This is now lost. It's under this government that an actually starts to decline reception because one doesn't see the value of the scheme. Can the Council of State now answer the question: Why does this drag in – why does it delete it from the State budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e701	The reason for this change is that we believe that the funding of the leadership grant belongs to where we propose. The sales teams have monopoly turnover; they have monopoly over first-hand sales of fish. This is part of that piece. When you come up with the catch, whether you have a peripheral reception station that needs to take the fish to a different place to have it put on the market, it has a part to do with that turnover. There are already funds withdrawn. There is both money in the account, and we know that every year funds are drawn into this scheme that goes to the sales laws. We're not going to remove the lead grant, so it's going to be totally wrong, as the representative Knag Fylkesnes is trying to make it, that this automatically leads to the closure of some receptions. No, it doesn't, because we're going to continue the lead grant, but with a different device than today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e709	The oral question time is now over, and we're going to the ordinary question hour.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e723	There will be some changes in the set question list, and the President will see in the context of the electronic question list in the salap. The changes were: Question l, from the representative of Audun Lysbakken to the Prime Minister, has been transferred to the Minister for Climate and Environment. It is suggested that the question, at the request of the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment, be moved and answered before question 12, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 11, by Sandra Borch, to the Minister of Defence, must be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e734	Question 1, by the representative of the Audun Lighthouse of the Minister for Climate and Environment, has moved, and has been answered before question 12. So we're going to go right to question 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e742	My question to the Minister for Child and Family Affairs on Child Protection is: ‘In 2018, a large number, including the Christian People’s Party, decided to increase the proportion of non-profit actors to around 40 pst. by 2025. From January to 1 October, the number of days spent in institutions is about 592 500, of these, is 32 pst. linked to individual places of purchase. Of these again, approx. 85 pst. under the authority of the commercial operators. There are no signs in the state budget that suggest that it should be invested in ideal actors. How will the State Council follow up the request decision 762 [[2017-2018]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e751	The Christian People's Party has always been committed to strengthening the non-profit sector, and the desire to strengthen the ideal position was also the background for us to participate in adopting this proposal. I think a strengthened position for ideals will provide a better offer to those children and families who need the help of child protection. The government is also clear in the Granavolden platform that we want to work for the ideal framework conditions. I am therefore pleased that last week we continued the cooperation agreement with non-profit providers on health and social services. The agreement recognises, makes visible and strengthens the role of the ideal actors, and it shows how important the government believes ideal actors are in our society. I myself voted in favour of the decision to which it refers. So let me be clear that this is something we work to follow up in a good way. The decision concerns a measure for 2025. It is therefore important that implementation facilitates better institutional child protection for those children and young people who need it. Children in institutions are among our most vulnerable, and changes must therefore be made with caution. Among other things, we must: ensure that children have to move as far as possible from well-functioning institutions as a result of the changes. We also need to make a thorough assessment of the impact that implementation can have, both in terms of quality and cost, so that the follow-up to the decision can be carried out in the best possible way. We have a number of ongoing processes that are meant to improve child protection. Among other things, we need to: implement a child protection reform from 2022. In addition, we are now investigating what framework conditions we should have for the use of both non-profit and commercial actors. These works obviously have interdependence with the 40 pst goal. To achieve the best possible institutional provision for those children who need it the most, I'm going to see these processes in context.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e762	I thank you for your answer. I fully agree that this must be done in a very sensible way. Then it is about pace, and then we really have a really bad time. When the Family and Culture Committee recently consulted on the budget, we were told by several teams that there was now a standstill in the involvement of stakeholders in this – in contrast to in 2018, when the government really took over, among other things. made an impact and risk analysis. The 2019 budget also referred this matter to the follow-up points. But when we reached 2019, it became completely quiet, yet everyone expected a plan for 2019. And the budget proposal for 2020 does not mention the matter – as far as I can see. Why isn't it? And why hasn't a plan come up that all the actors expected in 2019?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e769	As I said in my answer, there's a lot of processes we're doing now that we want to see in context. But I can reassure the representative that I have a lot of pressure on this. In the letter of assignment to Bufdir for the current year, 2019, it was clear that the request decision was to be taken into account when changing capacity and content. But we're aware that getting to the goal will take some time. When the decision was taken in Stortinget, Bufdir quickly began to investigate how one could meet and look at the consequences and risks the decision would have. The fact that, for example, will have an important connection with the work we do on private actors, so that when we continue to work on how the goal can be achieved, we will take into account the parallel processes that are taking place in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e776	I try to understand the argument and understand that it is extensive, but I'm nevertheless concerned and perhaps a little disappointed, because here, for many years, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party have been united in the struggle to increase the ideal actors in the field of child protection. But then it's when the Christian People's Party gets the minister in this area, that the fight seems to stop more. In any case, it is experienced that way for those affected. And we in the Center Party want the important participants to have a far greater role in child protection, and then at the expense of the big commercial players who are growing and growing and who are taking more and more of the community's tax money for profit without going back to the operation – unlike what they're doing. I can't help but ask, just to get it straight: Is the Christian People's Party still with the Center Party in the fight to strengthen the ideal actors at the expense of the commercial ones?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e783	Once again, I would like to stress that this is a work that I have a lot of pressure on, and that I regularly talk about and pick up. It's precisely because we have a great commitment to the ideals, because we think it contributes to a better diversity and a better offer to children and families. I am also clear that this decision means that we need to extend the capacity of ideals to about 60 pst, and reduce for commercial to about 45 pst. I am pleased that the representative also stressed in the previous question that this must be done in such a way that one does not move children from well-functioning offers where they are well-being – an unnecessary move. Therefore, these transitions also have to be done in a very careful way with the child's best in the center. We have, as I pointed out, already given a clear message to Bufdir. This is what we are going to follow up to in order to take account of it when making short-term changes, and also to meet the long-term objective towards 2025.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e793	‘The Council of State believes that child protection is strengthened on the crew side, while, among other things, the Children’s Ombudsman, the Joint Organisation and thepropont #heierne are clear that it is understaffed. The Council of State points to the strengthening of competences as measures, and further to the responsibilities of the municipalities, where the government is to facilitate the proper management of local authorities' responsibilities. What makes it so great that there is a gap between the experience of the Council of State and the experience of those who work in the ministry in the manning situation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e800	The government takes seriously that many municipal child protection services face capacity challenges. It makes the impression to hear how many employees experience their everyday lives. Strengthening child protection capacity is a high priority for the government, and I am pleased that the development is moving in the right direction. From 2013 to 2018, there have been 1,300 more employees in municipal child protection. From 2017 to 2018, staff increased by about 200 case handlers. This is a higher annual job growth than under the red-green government. The SSB figures for 2018 also show no growth in the number of cases. This provides a better basis for working with the individual child and family. Preliminary figures suggest continued capacity growth also in 2019. I take seriously that many municipal child protection services face capacity challenges. However, I do not believe that the solution is State instruments such as earring or manning standards – I believe that the figures on new jobs support that. It is the local politicians who are best placed to make assessments of the need for staffing. They are best able to prioritize resources and actions where the need and benefits are greatest — to help the most vulnerable children. In some municipalities, the need for more child-restraint workers may exist; in other municipalities, the best measure may be an additional health care provider or a family counselor. We have seen that municipalities are getting better at prioritising child protection. Most of the job growth we have seen in recent years is not due to earmarking, but precisely to the fact that municipalities give more priority to child protection. That's good. The government has a responsibility to facilitate the continuation of positive developments in the years to come. The government’s commitment to competence and digitisation will help to streamline the flow of work so that employees can spend more of their time helping vulnerable children and families. We will ensure that the quality and manning situation are regularly assessed, both at local and national level. It will become more visible which municipality does not give proper priority to child protection. Not least, we will continue to contribute to a good municipal economy. This is essential to ensure that municipalities have the opportunity to continue to give priority to child protection. I would also like to stress that the government is close to those municipalities that have the greatest challenges in child protection. We have our own guidance team to support the municipalities that are struggling the most. I hope that the employees in these services experience it as a great support to get help from the guidance teams.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e831	I still experience different descriptions of reality from the Council of State and those relating to child protection. Capacity growth does not follow the need. Municipalities must be given much more money to find out if they are going to comply with the requirements that are being met. The problem is, among other things: that children and young people who were previously taken care of in the justice and health services now have access to child protection. Consistent reduction of mental health protection with far fewer daily and bed places than in the past has consequences for other public services, such as child protection. Do the Councils accept a reduction in child and youth psychiatry? And does he think that the staff in child protection is equipped to set up when the health care system no longer has the capacity?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e838	I work closely with Councillor Höie on health challenges, because very many of the children in child protection know we also need health care. We are very concerned about improving cooperation on children and health. However, I do not agree with the premise on the issue of the representative, whether a strong reduction or failure, nor on the understanding of the reality of child protection. As I said in my answer, I am very happy that the crew has increased as much as it actually has, and there I think the Christian People's Party and the Center Party really agree on the use of tools, that strengthening the communities' economy, that they have a room for action to be able to prioritise, is really the best thing. So we only use ear tag when we think it's necessary. And the figures, 1,300 more from 2013 to 2018, but also the fact that there has not been an increase in the number of cases, make the capacity significantly strengthened. Then I'm going to say that I understand that there are many people who are having a hard time at work, with a lot of things, but at least I'm happy with the progress that has happened, and I really hope that it continues.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e847	The Christian People's Party and the Center Party may agree that the municipalities are very important here, and of course they take the issue seriously. But the question is what happens in health care and child protection in the context. New research documents a high incidence of mental illness among children in child protection institutions and foster homes. Three out of four children in child protection institutions and half of children in foster homes suffer from mental illness. At the same time, there are indications that the provision of this group’s health does not go far enough. Only 25 pst. Young people at institutions report having been in contact with children’s and young people’s psychiatry. Many shifts and missing daily places are a known challenge. The Central Party now proposes in the United Kingdom to legislate on the health of children’s somatic and mental health in relation to all care acquisitions. Does the Council of State believe that all these children undergoing drastic and tough changes in their family situation should be entitled to such an investigation?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e852	That's exactly what we're looking at right now, but I want to make it very clear that all the children are to be followed up by the municipality and the health service, so I fully agree with the representative that it is very important that they are met with the help they actually need. We also know that very many of the children in child protection have additional needs. It is also not that child protection can or should provide all help, you are very dependent on other services, and that cooperation must be there. In a later question, from the representative Toppe, I'm going to get more into health care. But I just want to refer to one offer that I believe will help many. It's the two new institutions where we're really strengthening health care. It'll be important. But it will also be important that child protection and the health sector cooperate even better, so that assistance to children is even better than it is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e862	‘In 2018, the State Children’s Protection Agency spent SEK 650 million on the purchase of one-off measures by private operators. Use has doubled in four years. On 17 December last year, the then state councillor, Hofstad Helleland, in Stortinget, defended this week that the public alone is unable to provide a service to every single child that child protection has been seen to help. Is the Council of State in agreement with its predecessor that public child protection today cannot take care of the children with the greatest needs?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e869	I am in favour of a diversity of suppliers. All children are different, and it is important that children who have to live in an institution for a shorter or longer period of time receive a well-adapted offer. Privates do an important job both for the state and for the municipalities. But it must be clear that the public has and must be responsible for child protection in Norway. The public must be in charge of ensuring that the children receive a good and sound offer and that the use of resources is reasonable. The best interests of the child shall always be a fundamental consideration. Most children are best off with other children and young people, and group measures should be the norm. But some have challenges that make it challenging to provide them with an institutional offer along with others who are responsible for both themselves and the others. A well-organised exclusive measure may then be necessary for a period of time. The representative refers to the high cost of purchasing exclusive measures. Exclusive measures are expensive, but in cases where necessary, they provide the opportunity to tailor the offer to the needs of the child and to provide the child with the assistance and frameworks it needs. It is mainly private suppliers who have sufficient flexibility to offer tailor-made measures at short notice. For children, it is important that they receive good and adapted measures, not who delivers them. The public is responsible for following up the child and the quality of the offer, whether private or public. In addition, it is important that the State is a professional premiscuous provider, also in the provision of children with the most important needs. I have therefore launched an external investigation to provide a comprehensive review of today's institutional services, including sole measures. This will provide a basis for assessing the need for more extensive changes in institutional child protection. We are also engaged in extensive work on reviewing the framework for private actors in child protection. The aim is to ensure the proper use of private actors, efficient resource use and not least the proper care of young people and the legal security of families.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e882	I thank you for your answer. I notice that the Council of State uses words as diversity, and that one should tailor measures. But what it's all about at the seventh and last is the reality that these kids are up in. Children's protection are some of the most vulnerable in Norwegian society. The use of exclusive measures is one of the most interventional and serious measures that can be used. Many of the stories that have been revealed, not least through VG's revelations, are fascinating to read. It is children who have been on their own for years, who have lived alone in an institution with only treatment staff, who have followed them up. Then the question is, how do you take care of them? Today, as has also been seen, large private actors are picking up more profits than they are spending on their children. Is this a development one can defend?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e893	Let me first stress that some of the things I have read about also upset me. That's why I'm very concerned that institutional child protection needs to be reviewed in a good way. We have our own investigation related to it, and not least how we're going to use private in the best possible way. As far as exclusive measures are concerned, what the representative says is intrusive. Therefore, it is important that it be used only when necessary, when best for the child, and when it is best for other children. Some of the increased use has coincided with the fact that there have also been many children who may have been in prison, in criminal services or in other services, now in the care of child protection. What I am pleased about is that we have done a lot of actions, so for 2019, only four new ones have started. The number of sole actions has declined from 118 in the third quarter of 2018 to 83 in the second quarter of 2019. I think that's also because someone uses it when it's necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e902	The Council of State suggests that exclusive action should only be used when absolutely necessary, and I fully agree with that, but there are also questions about the process of exclusive action. What has also emerged from media disclosures is not only the strong increase in the use of private actors in exclusive actions, but also the way private actors are involved in the process of deciding whether to use exclusive measures — and also in many situations the pressure to use exclusive measures. At the same time, the same actors are left with a significant surplus of the exclusive measures being used. As I said, these are some of the most vulnerable of the vulnerable, who are exposed to the kind of measures to try to keep them as close as possible. Why is it not more appropriate for a person to have a public offer rather than a private one?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e909	On a previous question, I explained the work of making more of the institutional sites ideal – that the public and the ideal should have a greater responsibility. One of the things we're doing is that the directorate is much closer in the follow-up of both state and private institutions. I think that's important. As I explained, there is a work related to how a user uses private property, and also how to use private property as an orderer, so that it is used both efficiently and correctly and not least strengthen legal certainty for the young and the families. One of the important things that has been done is that there are stricter requirements for justification — and evidence — as to when sole measures can be established. The restrictive or stricter control I think has also done something about the rather drastic reduction in the number of measures for 2019. I'm going to follow this closely all the way, because, as the representative says, there are some of the most vulnerable kids, and therefore they have demands for the best offer, what is best for the child. That's what's supposed to be the goal, and what's going to lead the ministry.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e923	‘The VG has published the case of goods that have bid in isolation in child protection measures for more than three years, for periods of unfurnished space, and where he has sleeping on an air mattress. The Council of State Robstad asked in the VG ‘top authority’ to intervene and indicated that the new child protection reform, with the introduction of economic incentives, would be an important measure to prevent municipalities from shifting child protection responsibility to the state. Does the Council of State think that increasing ownership and more economic focus will make municipal child protection safer and better, with more health care?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e930	The matter the representative refers to is outrageous, and I am pleased that it is now being assessed by the County Council. I assume that healthcare provides the necessary health care, including for children in child protection. Buffetate shall, on its part, do all they can to ensure that the children receive the services they require. This is not about financial incentives, but about statutory rights. Municipalities have an obligation to ensure that children for whom they are responsible are provided with the assistance they need, whether from Buffetat or from other services. I expect the municipalities to know their responsibility and to provide an offer that is best for the child. The child protection reform shall strengthen the opportunities and incentives of municipalities for prevention and early intervention. Municipalities shall provide young people with the assistance they need as early as possible. The setting up of local authorities’ financial responsibilities is therefore relevant. Municipalities will pay a little more for state child protection measures, but will be compensated for by an increase in the framework grant. Many children in child protection have complex needs and rights under several laws. Child protection shall ensure that they are provided with the necessary assistance and care. But child protection neither can nor shall it provide children with everything they need. Other public services must discharge their responsibilities, including: by providing the necessary health care. The different services need to work together to find solutions, unless we are at risk of young people becoming wasteballs. The Minister of Health and I are working closely to strengthen the provision of health care to children in the field of child protection. A number of joint actions have been launched, including: We build two new institutions for children in need of comprehensive assistance from both child protection and mental health protection. We are not in the target, but I assure the representative that this is an ongoing work that I take most seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e943	I believe that the Minister for Children and the Minister for Health have close cooperation. Then it is incomprehensible to me that the Minister for Children – among others. to VG – says that economic incentives and the new child protection reform are so important to bring about a change in child protection, when the Minister of Health simultaneously opens up to the opposite, just removing financial incentives that are currently in the health service otherwise. Health Minister Höie said to the VG on 24 October: ‘We have seen that attempts to create economic incentives to make cooperation work in some cases have only exacerbated the problems. And then we don't believe in that kind of incentive. [[...]] We believe that cooperation on common services is what contributes to a change.’ The question is how the same government can have believed that financial incentives and payment schemes are good in child protection, but not in health services otherwise.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e953	I agree with the Minister of Health that cooperation is the most important thing. When I reply as I do to VG in the interview to which the representative refers, it is a matter of not being able to rule out that when services are bordering on each other and there is a different price, it may also be that the economy plays a role in what provision the municipalities place. I believe, in any case, that the local authorities have a greater responsibility, including in terms of funding, giving them an even greater incentive or even greater willingness to give priority to prevention. So this is definitely not something that excludes each other. We have launched a series of measures to improve health care. In addition to institutions, I believe that we have introduced our own child protection officers in the field of mental health protection for children and young people is important in order to be able to see the challenges young people face, and hopefully, through what is revealed, give them the help they need.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e960	I do not understand that the Council of State has previously said that one should not rule out such a payment reform. But it has our own response to the challenges, that's what I'm responding to. VG has told history of good on air mattress – 16-year-old, great help needs, bid in single measures for three years and sleep on air mattress in an unfurnished room for some periods. The objective paragraph of the Child Protection Act is clear: ‘The law shall help children and young people meet with security, love and understanding and ensure that all children and young people have good and secure conditions of growth.’ Does the Council of State mean that good on the air mattress has met such a purpose paragraph in law tillseier? If not, who is responsible? Is that what the Council of State calls top child authority, that is, Bufdir, or is it the Council of State itself?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e972	Like the representative Toppe, I believe that this matter is an outrageous one. The representative knows very well that I cannot and should not go in and deal with individual matters, but as described, I believe that we are not caring for that boy in a good enough way. I am pleased that the County State is now in the matter to assess it, and it is only when that report is available that one can possibly say more about the matter itself. The reason I was on the matter was that it upset me. I do not take lightly the responsibility that I have as the Council of State, when I am very clear and ask Bufdir, who is the chief responsible for Bufetat, to follow up the specific matter as I am not in direct proceedings. That's why I'm very concerned that the services are talking well together, and that it's a system that works well together. But the main point is that kids have the right to the help they're going to have, regardless of the economy. That's what's going to happen, and what I expect from the municipalities when they offer to the kids.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e982	‘Children in child protection experience many movements, unnecessary use of coercion, widespread use of exclusive measures and lack of health care. The European Court of Human Rights, the EMD, has now brought 34 child protection cases against Norway. Both the National Audit Office and the United Nations Children’s Committee have pointed to errors and deficiencies in Norwegian child protection. Child protection is now at a crossroads. What system changes does the Council of State see the need to implement so that child protection can work for the best of its children?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e989	Children who need to receive child protection for a short or longer period of time shall be seen and shall receive the assistance they need. The work of child protection is complex, and child protection sometimes needs to be made in-depth decisions, where this is best for the child. Families in contact with child protection must meet well and legal certainty must be ensured. We are well aware of the challenge of child protection. For me, it is therefore most important to strengthen the system we have today. We are now implementing a wide range of measures that meet the challenges in this area and will improve the overall level of child protection. It's limited how much I can pull out here, but I want to highlight in particular five important steps to strengthen child protection. First of all, we are now working on a completely new Child Protection Act, which is scheduled to be presented in the spring of 2021. The law will improve the quality of child protection. We will strengthen the legal certainty of children and parents, contribute to increased prevention and early intervention, and build more on the resources of the child and the family. In addition, in spring 2020, we will present some amendments to the current law, including: I consider introducing the conversation process in the counties as a permanent arrangement. Secondly, we are now also implementing the child protection reform. It will strengthen local authorities’ ability to prevent and take early action. The need for child protection competence is well documented. A third measure that I will therefore refer to is the government's competence strategy for municipal child protection. Among other things, we have established further training provision and we improve basic training. In addition, we consider competence requirements for child-restraint workers. I believe that this will be an important boost to the quality and legal certainty of child protection. Fourthly, we are also reviewing the institutional offer, which includes sole measures. Work will provide a basis for assessing the need for more extensive changes in the protection of institutional children. We are also reviewing the framework for the use of private actors in child protection. Finally, I would like to point out that there is a health effort in place to provide better and more holistic services to children in the field of child protection. Overall, I believe that these measures will strengthen child protection, so that children are given the necessary care and protection when they need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e1010	The answer is clear. There are no system changes, one will strengthen the protection of today’s children. It's a big topic, and then it's hard to ask a question in just one minute, but I'll take one point first: there's a lot of moves among kids in child protection. It's hard for everyone to move. Especially when you're insecure, it's hard. You might have an offer in child protection for a certain period of time, then you move, then you get to the age of 18, and then you don't know what time is going on. Most parents who know their 18 - year - old youth know you're young compared to a meeting. Here are young people who are in a difficult situation, and who in many cases don't know anything about what they're meeting. My question is: Shouldn't young people who are in child protection know what they are facing, and what they can look forward to, in order to get a better situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e1015	I agree that it is a challenge that too many foster homes end up broken, and that there will be moves. That's why an important area I'm focusing on is the recruitment of foster homes and also better guidance and follow-up of foster homes. If we can get even more people who want to be foster parents, and good follow-up of them, I think one can reduce the movement. We've also gone $25 million. kr in the year to contribute to this work. Another important act, based on what I feel the representative is concerned about, is that in the new Child Protection Act, which has just been consulted, we have outlined that post-protection should be extended to 25 years. The fact that child protection is also there in the follow-up afterwards, I think it's important for that transition to take care of itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e1022	Another important issue concerns exclusive action. Some kids need exclusive measures; they simply need to be single children for a period of time, to put it that way. The centre party believes it's happening too much. But to what is a tragedy: when the Council of State says that it's the private actors who have the flexibility to do a good job in cases where you need one thing, it has to be a failure. In the specialist health service, the most demanding tasks there — no one can believe that it is the private ones who have to deal with it. Should not the Council of State provide Bufdir with the necessary flexibility, so that the public can provide the only measures necessary in the few cases involved, in a good way, and not answer that here the public does not have the flexibility and the means, so that one must give it to private commercial operators?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e1027	The representative Lundtigen heard the previous questions and my answers. I'm not going to repeat it, but what was important for me to stress is that there's a review of institutional child protection, and there we will also get answers to the questions that are being asked. It will give me a better basis in my work further and look this up against the work done against private actors, acquisitions, and also the goal of 40 pst. ideal. But after all that has been said – and that work I will take seriously – I would like to stress that I am most concerned about the best possible offer for the young. It's the responsibility of the state and the public, but whether it's also some use of ideals or private ones, it's primarily how it's offered, and how the quality of that offer is, I'm most concerned about. There is, unfortunately, a failure, in something private, in something public, and we take that most seriously. That is why we also have closer follow-up to the institutions and implement all the measures I have been allowed to use this morning to talk about.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e1035	‘What will the government do to the victims of the Nav scandal, in addition to what has been denounced by regret, Nav’s review of matters and external investigation, also in respect of all those who have been affected by the Nav’s unjust rejection, and those who have indirectly been hit by having failed to go on holiday, meeting family or similar, in fear of losing their support?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e1040	The EU Social Security Regulation gives citizens extended rights to free movement, but with some restrictions relating to, inter alia, activity requirements. As we have now seen, the regulation has been misinterpreted, with serious consequences for many. People are unjustly punished, have obtained unjust refund claims or otherwise have not received what they claim. We must have confidence that our welfare systems are being properly practiced. As I have announced, the government will carry out an external independent audit. Those who have been unjustly punished, or have paid back amounts they should not have, or have had a documented loss as a result of the error, must be taken care of. Multiple instances are now running with a full review. The Directorate has set up a task force that is now doing a great job, reviewing all the issues back to 2012, and contacting them. Those who have unduly paid back shall be entitled to the benefit they claim. The prosecution authorities are running their own race. The government will create a system of free legal assistance for those who will complain after the new treatment of Nav. The Ministry of Justice, in consultation with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, will take a closer look at how this legal aid is to be provided. The government will establish a free legal aid system for persons making claims as a result of this error. The Government considers the establishment of a separate compensation scheme to ensure that those affected receive as simple and rapid a process as possible. Action has been taken and more will be taken to ensure that the person concerned is involved, to get to the bottom of this case, and to avoid this happening again.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e1053	I thank you for your answer. Victims set the prison at the end of last week, the last one came September 17th, there was a funeral call in the second half of October, but the big alarm went on August 30th, according to Anniken Hauglie. Nav wrote to the ministry on the date that persons could be likely to be reported and convicted on the wrong basis of unconditional imprisonment. In the statement yesterday, Hauglie said that ‘when the department became aware of the seriousness, Nav assured us that these matters were put on hold and the prosecution was notified’. But this happened only after the meeting with Nav on 13 September, two weeks after Nav first contacted me. Many questions are unanswered, but one thing the Council of State must be able to give the Storting an answer to already now, without having to push the examination in front of it: What did Anniken Hauglie do with the matter from August 30 to September 13?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e1062	As I have explained, the department received an e-mail from the directorate on Friday 30 August, saying that this matter could be more extensive than what was initially believed, as discussed earlier, that it could be more extensive. On 2 September, a meeting was requested, because it was then considered that the matter was more serious. On Friday 13 September, a meeting was held between the department and the directorate, and that was when the question was asked whether it could actually be that it was the wrong legal application, that is, in plain language, whether it is such to understand that the Norwegian authorities have not complied with Norwegian law. It was then decided that the directorate would send letters to the police districts and ask them to stop the cases that were not covered, due to unclear legal application. At the same time, legal work was started to get closer to the legal application itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e1069	These two weeks appear to be a gross failure sin, at such a critical time, from the Council of State. I wonder if Anniken Hauglie will complain to both the victims and the Stortinget that she did not get ahead of the matter in the month of August/September. Professor of Justice Christoffer Conrad Eriksen has stated that it is serious that the Council of State spent so much time in this period. Then another month and a half, from September 13th to October 31st, when people were convicted, were summoned to atoning, and were also imprisoned. What did Anniken Hauglie do between August 30 and October 31 to stop people being convicted and being imprisoned on a false basis? So it was 48 days after the alarm went in the department to the Riksadvokat was actually notified of this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e1078	There are still a lot of questions that will be answered through the review. When you look back at the whole case, I think there is reason to ask questions about what should have been done at an earlier time. The police districts were notified on 18 and 19 September. The National Attorney's Office was informally contacted on 26 September. The question is: have the Norwegian authorities breached Norwegian law? The answer to that is yes. The law has been violated in the administration, in the social security system and in the prosecution authorities without this appearing to have been revealed anywhere at any time. The question now is at least: Should several instances at an earlier date, back to 2012, have discovered this grave error? Now it's discovered. Now it's up to us to clean it up, take care of the affected, get to the bottom of how it could happen, and not least make sure that this can't happen again.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e1088	‘It must be an objective that large State investment should lead to a strengthening of Norwegian business. Unfortunately, the government has failed in terms of infrastructure investments. The last time it became known that five foreign entrepreneurs, no Norwegian, have reported their interest in building the new Mjøsbrua. Road cover has said that it was impossible to legally compete against Chinese companies. What action will the Council of State take to enable Norwegian actors to participate in the major infrastructure projects in the years to come?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e1095	First of all, to the premise: at least we have been better off getting up a Norwegian entrepreneurial market than what the Center Party did when they put them in government. I can come back to the numbers later. The Norwegian construction market is differentiated and covers many operators. We have large nationwide actors, medium-sized regional actors and small local actors. It is a result of a successful strategy in which state leaders have taken an active responsibility for developing a well-functioning national market. There is currently a very high level of activity in this market. There is also an ongoing change as a result of a change in the overall contract portfolio of the state builders. This change consists mainly in the development of implementation models and contract strategies. This is done to ensure a rapid and cost-effective implementation of installations with optimum use of public resources. Different actors respond differently to the pending changes, and it is registered that providers become more selective when they enter large competitions. An increasing interest in the Norwegian market has also been recorded from international operators. The market is about to adapt to the current changes. In most cases, there is satisfactory competition for state transport operations, and most of the contracts are concluded with Norwegian operators. It is also an important point that although the contractor of a project is a foreign actor, it is not said that there is no significant Norwegian participation in the project. Rather the opposite. In the development of Follobanen, for example, where the main contractor is a foreign operator, the subcontractors are mainly Norwegian operators, and Norwegian operators account for more than 70 pst. of the total value of the project, which is more than 20 billion. kr. There must still be a high level of awareness among the builders we have in the transport sector, if the need for a differentiated contract portfolio that facilitates small, medium-sized and large players, that we set up the market so that we can also contribute to building good solutions for the future, in a way that is also important for Norwegian business. We have done that in the last few years, and this work will continue in the following.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e1112	When we are going to build infrastructure, it has to be part of creating Norwegian jobs that have a content. The structural projects themselves have a content in which to use new technologies, new competences – perhaps especially on construction in a weather-resilient environment. Norwegian stakeholder organisations, to which the Council of State refers many times, both small, medium and large, are now calling for unisoned warnings about the number and size of contracts, lack of predictability, high level of dispute, low performance for entrepreneurs, unbalanced contractual conditions and risk-sharing. Several people choose not to participate. The OPS project with four-field bridge to Sotra – cost 10 billion. kr, very complex, high risk – not tendered and suspended until 2026. Are the concerns of Norwegian stakeholder organisations groundless?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e1117	I mean one should take all the recorded one sheep, in sufficient seriousness. There is a need for a varied contract strategy across the transport sector, so that we develop the entrepreneurial market and ensure that many of the small players today are able to continue to grow and win new offers in Norway. There is a positive trend towards Norwegian contractors winning the contracts – in all contract segments, whether there are small contracts in the order of between 10 and 100 million. kr, or there are contracts of more than 100 million. kr. For example, Norwegian contractors watered 93 pst. of the large contracts of more than 100 million. kr in 2011, 65 pst. in 2012 and 70 p.p. In 2013, for example: In 2018, 97 pst won. of the contracts. So there's an improvement in this market even when it's a part of the big contracts, as we've seen in the last few years.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e1124	From the answer, I see that the Council of State thinks the concerns are unfounded. NTP is estimated to cost over 1000 billion. kr for the next 12 years. So the Council of State is twelve-year-old head of a The government's perspective report says that if we're to maintain our well-being in 2060, we need to create one million new jobs. Do the Council of State agree that the development of infrastructure can contribute to these jobs? And in what way will the Council of State reverse today's negative trend – because it is – that has evolved, and almost to a systemic error, and contribute to the growth of new Norwegian jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e1131	I react to the Central Party trying to rewrite history – even when they met with evidence that, after all, there has been a significant improvement in this market in favour of Norwegian entrepreneurs for the last six years compared with the Central Party's responsibility. So one goes on trying to rewrite history. It doesn't make her correct. I am busy developing the Norwegian entrepreneurial market. And the key to that is enough contracts. Therefore, the transport permissions are increased by more than 80 pst. during this government period, and we have actually ensured that there is a civil engineering market that can fight for large investment projects. There is also variation in the contract strategy. This is even better achieved through the reforms that are now taking place, both through the professionalisation of the expansion division in the state road system, through all the reforms that have already come about in the creation of New Roads, and through the fact that Bane NOR also professionalises its development department. It will help to strengthen the Norwegian entrepreneurial market in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e1141	‘In Decision No 391 on 20 December 2017 the Stortinget Government asks to negotiate an environmental bonus scheme for those who won the coastal route offer. For almost two years, the government has been waiting to implement this before the government budget comes up with the eye-catching news that the government is promoting a decision to repeal the Stortingen’s current decision. Why?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e1148	The new coastal route agreement applicable from 2021 imposes stringent environmental requirements, but in the light of the call for proposals, the Ministry has made a thorough assessment of the procurement and state aid legislation and has had dialogue with suppliers on the arrangements for a possible environmental bonus and the potential for the bonus to trigger additional climate and environmental measures. State aid and procurement rules set clear limits on the possibility of awarding an environmental bonus. It is important to ensure that the agreements we may conclude do not involve illegal support and must therefore be repaid by the operators. The distribution we have made shows that there is little room for creating such an environmental bonus as the Stortinge sketches in its call for proposals, within the legal framework as a liability. Within the legal framework, the State can only grant aid for investments in measures supported by the measure. Furthermore, there is a maximum ceiling on the amount of investment costs that can be supported and the total amount of State aid. Under the State aid rules, we have assessed that it is therefore not possible to establish an environmental bonus in which suppliers are compensated for each tonne of CO 2 which is reduced in addition to the requirements of the contracts concluded, as set out in their call for proposals. However, we have examined the possibilities for meeting the intentions of the call for proposals decision in State aid and competition law, and so we have, as I said earlier, had dialogue with the providers about it. However, there are a number of other schemes that can contribute to this type of investment. Enova provides support and incentives for schemes along the entire coastal route. We have the NO x fund, as well. has provided support for LNG and battery operation. Enova has contributed to Havila’s new build and Hurtigruten’s expedition ships, and Havila has also received support through PILOT-E to combine battery and hydrogen fuel cells. In addition, Enova contributes to the development of shore-side electricity on coastal routes in Bergen, Trondheim, Tromsø, Bodø and Ålesund. Thus, we have seen that the assessments to be made, which say that measures with State aid and environmental bonuses must trigger investment, are very much triggered in other ways. We have therefore said, and reported to the Storting that implementing the environmental bonus as set out in the call for proposals of the Storting, there will be no room within the State aid law we have, and within the rules of competition that apply.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e1165	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I hear that the answer is now in line with what has been written in the State budget. Then I would like to comment on this in two parts. Actually, the answer from the Council of State is in two parts. It is said that there has been a dialogue with operators regarding the means to reduce emissions. It turns out, almost between the lines, that there's been some kind of agreed agreement around this. I have also had my contacts with the operators, and I register that Norseide Havila, who has four ships in this contract, is not familiar with this picture. There have been many meetings around the bonus scheme, and they believe they have invested 500 million. kr almost in vain. The question is then: is it because there has become a new majority in the Chamber and that there are substituting arguments, or is the Council of State standing on the technical argument?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e1174	And then finally, the answer is yes. I have focused on the legal assessments that have been made, and I have said, and I repeat now, that we have had dialogue with the suppliers. There is no doubt that it has our different attitudes and understanding of how desirable it has been with the environment bonus, but we have taken into account the decision of the Stortinge's appeal. The Storting has wanted an environmental bonus. Based on this, we have made an analysis of what might be going on within State aid legislation to establish such a scheme, so that it actually triggers more investment than the company has already made, which the legal assessment points to, in order to be able to allocate it. Then we have come to the conclusion that the scheme that Stortinget has pointed to, which we have adhered to, would be contrary to the State aid rules, and therefore we have recommended the Stortinget not to go further with that call for proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e1179	I take note of what the Council of State says. He also uses legal arguments – that’s the second part of the argument – but I’m in doubt whether I trust that argument and the legal assessment, because I’ve seen, in so many fields now in transport, that the Council of State and Government don’t use the space for action, never test out, never try out the possibilities under EEA law. I have seen it in connection with e.g. buses, where Denmark tests the schemes. Norway does not. That's the way it's been in the area by area. I do feel that there has been a trigger when you put in two battery packs and prepare your ships for much less emissions because they have had the bonus scheme with them and in the back of their heads all the way. The proposal made by the government is shocking to the environment movement and many actors in the green maritime industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e1184	I recognize and only have to admit that even I am aware of the frustration that sometimes the kiss is tangling the policy. I still think it's a wise approach for a government council to respond to the Storting, to stick to the best legal judgements we can make, even when I give advice to the Storting. The assessment that the representative has submitted, namely, the reasons for the investments he has made, is difficult to verify. An environmental bonus scheme was not established. It was said to the ministry that, in addition to what was in the agreements, one should look at the possibilities of an environmental bonus at the top of what one has provided. But what you've been offering is a binding document that is the basis for which kind of actors are selected. Thus, a possible environmental bonus on top of it has not been part of the weighting when we have measured whether they have delivered on what was in the supply material and selected the supplier as a result of it. I see the time is running out. We're going to follow up on this in the future, but we've considered the space for action to be absent.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e1197	‘The Solberg Government decided in 2015 that the pilot service would no longer own its own boats, but that boats and boat drivers would be purchased by tender. Privatisation was carried out in 2016. For the loss district of Nordland, it was estimated that the pilot boat service would be worth SEK 6 million more after the start of the competition, while in other pilot districts it would be cheaper. How much has the Coastal Plant saved on the competitive outsourcing since 2016?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e1204	First of all to the premise in the question: it would not have been a privatisation in 2016. The state is still responsible, but through supply contracts. For the government, it has been a priority task to make maritime transport even more competitive, and it has therefore been important to make it more efficient so that it provides lower charges for users of maritime transport. In the context of the presentation of the new law on the lay-off scheme in spring 2014, the organisation of the lozenest service was thus changed. The Lostneste was moved out of the Coastal Authority's regional structure, with shorter control line and more efficient operation as a result. I Prop. 1 S for 2017-2018, we assumed that we had given a saving of 17.6 million to Stortinget. kr per day. In addition, the government decided that the housing service for Los would be put out to compete for additional cost-effectiveisation, and in the same proposition we suggested that it would amount to 25 million. kr. In 2015, an offer contest was held for the housing services, and in the autumn of 2015, a ten-year contract was concluded with Buksér and Berging AS for the supply of the housing services. In the comparison of costs before and after the start of competition, there are a few elements that are important to include in the overall assessment. Pending the selection of new providers, new investments were not carried out in 2015 to the same extent as before. This means that the cost of this year was lower than in a normal year. Buksér and Berging AS took over the delivery of the housing services in 2016. It happened gradually, which also means that a person must at least bring some shades with him if he is to use 2016 as a basis for comparison before and after the launch of the competition. We look at the period 2012-2014, the last three years of normal operation of the housing services in the Coastal Administration, and compare the average for these three years with the average for 2017-2018, the first two years of private operation, we get an estimated cost reduction – and at the present time I have to take back on uncertainty – of about 38 million. kr, estimated at 2019-krona. However, this overall cost reduction cannot be isolated because of an increase in efficiency on its own. We also have to look at the adjustment of activity. In comparison, the costs associated with the above period have been reduced by about 14 pst, while the unloading operations were reduced by about 9.5 pst. during the same period. This suggests that costs will be reduced more than the level of activity required, which is a clear indication that the competitive outsourcing has led to cost reductions in the housing services. As we gain more experience, we also get safer figures and profit-reduction of the competitive outsourcing of the housing services that have been implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e1221	Thanks for the answer. A rationalisation was carried out within the public owned boating service prior to the competitive outsourcing. It was also initially said from the department that if you were to drive more reasonably and prove that you wanted to operate more reasonably yourself, you should not buy these boats and the boat drivers from the private sector. But then it was turned around in 2015, and it was decided that regardless of whether you had rationalised so that you could operate cheaper yourself, this would be put on the market. 24 pilot boats were sold for 1 DKK per item to Buksér and Berging AS. I hope it's included in the numbers I heard about here. In the case of the Workers' Party, it is important that public funds be used prudently and, in particular, when such services are to be covered by the industry. Does the Council of State see that privatisation in all regions can be problematic, regardless of whether it pays?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e1230	Point 1, again to the premise of the question: We have not privatised – we have launched a competitive service. The competitive outsourcing of the service was such that one first made an assessment of whether one should go out with regional supply or whether one should collect it in one. Then one came to the conclusion that it gave the greatest efficiency gain to go out in all at the same time and not divide this into many small offerings. Based on that, the calculations that I showed give clear indications that we are already starting to get the benefits of the reorganisation that led to a competitive postponement back in 2015. So all the indications we have at this point in time show that the assessments that have been made so far are still valid.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e1235	Another part of the unloading service is the unloading service, which distributes orders between the pilots and schedules their journeys to, from and between assignments. The dispensation in Lødingen is responsible from Rørvik in Trøndelag to Kirkenes at Russergrensa, including Svalbard. They use their knowledge of logistics every day using speedboats, airplanes and buses, and taxis if they do, and they know seasonal variations when they calculate travel time and capacity. It may be especially important when working with Svalbard. The distribution of lots was assessed as centralized in 2017 – down to one pilot placement for the whole country – but it was then established that there were no digital aids that could replace the local knowledge of the employees. But there is certainly not yet, in the ministry's mission ahead of a new national transport plan, a desire for one pilot service. Why is it so hard to accept that decentralization sometimes is the best thing? And what digital leap have we seen after 2017 that makes the assessment do not stand?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e1244	That assessment from 2017 may well still stand. But what I've said is that when we're planning infrastructure solutions that aren't just about the 2017-2020 period, but stretching all the way to 2033, one has to have a decision base on how we think the technological things that are coming can affect it. How does it affect the efficiency potential, and do we still need to be present in the places we are today? There I have not concluded in any way, so I have sent a mission to the authorities to do this. It is about equipping the department — but later the Stortinget, which is presented with a national transport plan — with a knowledge base for making reasonable decisions. I think that the Stortinge will appreciate it at a later stage: that the Ministry helped to provide the Stortinge with the best possible knowledge of the assessments to be made when dealing with a national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e1256	This question has been postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. So let's go to question 1.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e1266	This question, from the representative of Audun Lysbakken to the Prime Minister, has been transferred to the Minister for Climate and Environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e1271	‘In an interview on 2 September, the Prime Minister said that ‘we should cross our fingers in order to have a climate policy that means that the edge of the ice does not move so quickly northwards. We hope to reach the objectives of the Paris Agreement. Then the edge of the ice won't move this far north, but now we have to relate to the actual edge of the ice." Will the Prime Minister make sure that the government puts the edge of the ice where she thinks it should go if we reach our climate goals, or will she put it where it can go if we don't reach the targets?'
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e1278	First of all, I would like to say that we are definitely going to have a policy to achieve the climate objectives, the global climate objectives. The Government of the Granavolden Platform states that it will determine the definition of the ice edge in the context of the revision of the Barents Sea Management Plan and the sea areas outside the Lofoten, and in the light of the recommendations of the Professional Forum. The Government will present the notification of the revision of the Barents Sea and Lofoten management plan in 2020. The ice edge is the transition between dense drift ice and open seas and is a very special combination of high biological production and biodiversity. The edge of the ice has therefore been identified as a particularly valuable and vulnerable area in the Barents Sea and Lofoten management plan. The SVO is the area where the sea ice will normally be found throughout the year, as it moves back and forth between its annual maximum and minimum. The ice edge moves over significant distances throughout the year and has natural variations between years. The delimitation of the area is currently set where ice 30 pst is present. of the days of April, based on statistics on sea ice for the last 30 years. Specially valuable and vulnerable areas are areas that have a significant impact on biodiversity and marine biological production, even outside the areas themselves. Identification of particularly valuable and vulnerable areas is a professional process. The work is part of the technical basis of the management plan developed by the Norwegian Professional Forum. The sites have been identified using predefined criteria on the importance of biodiversity and biological production. In particular, valuable and vulnerable areas do not have direct effects in the form of restrictions on activity, but signal the importance of showing particular care in these areas. As I pointed out, the government will present a case on this to the next year – on the basis of the Granavolden platform – that the edge of the ice should be defined. The Granavolden platform also states that petroleum activities are not to be carried out, inter alia: What is the edge of the ice.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e1291	I thank you for the answer, but there is a need to drill a little bit more in what's going on here, because the Prime Minister has in this interview operated in a way with a category that is: where we hope the edge of the ice should go, and another that might seem to be: where it might seem that development is coming. I think there is a need to clarify that the government will – as I believe it will be natural – base its definition of the ice edge that a hopeer should be the result of government policy, i.e. that the ice edge will go further south than if the world does not reach the climate targets and does not meet the Paris agreement. Does the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment agree that the natural starting point must be a definition of the ice edge that is related to the objectives of Norwegian climate policy, and what the Prime Minister in this interview says she hopes she will get?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e1298	The aim of our climate policy must be to achieve its objectives. Norway is doing its part, and the world must also strengthen its efforts. 2020 is a very important year to get the enhanced effort. Otherwise, I also say in my answer that the actual definition of the ice edge and the ice edge zone must be a professional assessment. We say on the Granavolden platform that we will look at this when the Barents Sea Management Plan and the areas outside the Lofothe come, and it will take place in the light of the advice given by the Professional Forum. Of course, this is also related to the other part of the Granavolden platform, which says that we should not have petroleum activity at the ice edge.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e1307	I understand that the Minister for Climate and Environment will not be as clear from the pulpit in Stortinget – and with the Minister for Oil and Energy on the seat next to – as he was in the interview in Dagbladet earlier this year, August 30. Then, among other things, he added: emphasis on the following – and I can quote, really, because it was a good quote: ‘In addition, we must take seriously the professional advice on the ice edge. In the majority of the councils, the limit is much further south than what has been said in the past.’ I understand that the very conclusion is that we will get as the government has negotiated it. But can the Council of State confirm that it is his view that the majority of the councils point to the fact that the border should go further south, and that the government will deal with these professional advice in the handling of the matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e1317	I want to confirm that we are going to look at our proposal in the light of what is professional advice. Then I have to realize that my statement – now I don't remember the date – is upresis, because from the professional council you don't operate with a majority and a minority, but there are different views in the Professional Forum at just where this should be defined. But it is clear that their Council must be the basis for what should be our proposal in the management plan. This is also related to the second part of the Granavolden platform, which says where we are not going to have petroleum activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e1324	We go to question 12.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e1332	‘The icy edge zone is a vulnerable and valuable area. Food production here is crucial for life in the Barents Sea. Will the Council of State adopt a precautionary approach in determining where the ice is going and following the environmental advice?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e1339	Now it's probably a little repetition, but as I said in the answer to question 1, the government of the Granavolden platform says it will define the ice edge in connection with the revision of the management plan for the Barents Sea and the sea areas outside the Lofoten – and in the light of the recommendations of the Professional Forum. The Government will present the notification of the revision of the management plan for the Barents Sea and the Lofoten in 2020. And so: The Storting also asked for the treatment of Meldning. St. 35 for 2016-2017, Update of the Norwegian Sea Management Plan, in 2017 that the Government should assume that any new definition of the ice edge will take place on the basis of a comprehensive revision of the Barents Sea Management Plan and the offshore areas outside the Lofoten. As I said, the ice edge is a transition between dense drift ice and open seas and has a very special combination, as the questioner also says, of high biological production and biodiversity. The edge of the ice is therefore defined as a particularly valuable and vulnerable area, SVO, in the Barents Sea and Lofoten management plan. SVO at the ice edge is the area where the sea ice will normally be found throughout the year as it moves back and forth between its annual maximum and minimum, and it moves over significant distances throughout the year and has natural variations between years. Specially valuable and vulnerable areas are areas that have a significant impact on biodiversity and marine biological production, even outside the areas themselves. Identification of particularly valuable and vulnerable areas is a professional process. The work is part of the technical basis of the management plan developed by the Norwegian Professional Forum. The sites have been identified using predefined criteria, the importance of biodiversity and biological production. In particular, valuable and vulnerable areas do not have direct effects in the form of restrictions on activity, but signal the importance of showing particular care in these areas. We will deal with what are the technical assessments, which must be based on, together with the formulations of the Granavolden platform on the Barents Sea and Lofoten management plan, and also the limitations of the Granavolden platform towards petroleum activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e1352	I thank you for your answer. I also have to deal with what was said in the previous question, for the Council of State stated to the media, to the newspaper, at the end of August the following: ‘The Barents North Sea must be permanently protected and the edge of the ice must be moved southwards.’ At the same time, the Minister of Oil and Energy pointed out to Dagbladet that the government has not concluded, and that the play-out of the Council of State Elvesuen is «suitable for creating doubt in the industry». He pointed out that the government platform said that Norway should ‘facilitate profitable production and allocate new areas’ and ‘the base should be developed, not liquidated or protected’. So then the question is, is it the view of the Minister for Climate and Environment or the Minister for Oil and Energy to decide whether the government is opening up oil activities in areas and whether it is going to be within the ice zone?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e1366	The Government shall provide the management plan for the Barents Sea and Lofoten, and the quote from the Minister of Oil and Energy concerning the Granavolden Platform is correct. That is right, just like the wording that states that, in the light of the recommendations of the Professional Forum, we should also look at the ice-cream zone in this management plan. And the formulations in the Granavolden platform that go on where there is going to be petroleum activity are also taken into account for the decisions to be made by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e1371	I've been so lucky to visit these areas--many once in my old profession. I've seen thousands, hundreds of thousands, of polar louvres in the sea and on the ice, on ice flakes, near these nutritious upwelling areas, as we call it, and the productive ice-cream zones, like with other sea birds, numerous marine mammals, etc. And many times I've been sitting at the foot of these huge million cities in the sea, these huge cave mountains, the Stelling Mountains, etc., at the Storfjord River and elsewhere at Svalbard, and I've been thinking, "Think if anything happens here!" Think if there's an oil spill here, I've been thinking. Now I'm not going to undertake to be neither a social worker, nor a family adviser, nor a political adviser to the Left, but how seriously is the Council of State seeing this matter, in the light of the Left's soul and profile and the vulnerable arctic nature?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e1378	First, I have to say that I would like to have the same experience as the representative here, namely to have visited the ice-cream zone and by self-esteem to see the enormous life that is there. It is clear that when the Barents and Lofoten management plan has such a central place in the Granavolden platform, it also underlines the importance that we attach to this matter. Also earlier, from Stortinget's side, the ice edge zone was mentioned, when we had updated the Norwegian Sea. So the meaning is no doubt about it. Then I have to remind the representative that what we have from the past goes back to 2012, when the then oil and energy minister Ola Borten Moe at the opening of the Barents Sea south-east defined it so that this was the maximum extent of the ice, as it can be observed at any time.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e1388	‘Since the government change in 2013, the Solberg government has not followed a single professional warning against petroleum activities in vulnerable areas. Instead, record new readouts have been awarded in the last TFO round earlier this year. Will the Council of State make recommendations from the government's own faculties in subsequent oil drilling assessments and ensure that no petroleum production is permitted in the areas where the environmental professional authorities advise against doing so?»
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e1395	Let me just say that no petroleum activity on a Norwegian base shall be carried out unless it can be carried out in a proper manner. Consent or authorisation of authority is required for all activities, including exploration, expansion and operation, and also termination. Oil and gas industries are Norway's largest and most important industries. The treatment of spillage notifications on oil and gas activities and individual cases over many years has also shown broad support for the petroleum policy of the Stortinget. Petroleum policy has also been regularly presented to the Stortinget, most recently through Prop. 80 S for 2017-2018. This also applies to the concession policy. TFO concession rounds and numbered concession rounds are key instruments for achieving the objectives of the petroleum policy. The TFO scheme facilitates timely exploration through annual allocations of spatial predictability through the predefined areas. Areas available for petroleum activities are open to such activities by Stortinget. An opening process with impact assessments is carried out prior to an opening decision. The size has dealt with the issue of the spatial framework of the petroleum activity in several stages after the opening of areas of petroleum activity. Comprehensive management plans have been submitted for the marine environment in all marine areas. The management plans provide a spatial framework and conditions for new extraction permits, to which the government naturally relates. Prior to the award of a concession round, the public consultation shall take place. The consultation is conducted in line with guidelines agreed by the Storting. In this process, environmental authorities and others are heard. It is the government that deals with concrete issues such as the award of concession rounds and the granting of permits. Such cases are submitted to all relevant state councils in advance of a decision, and then it is the government that finally weighs up different societal concerns against each other. The Government makes the final balance and decides on the basis of the input from all the departments and departments concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e1412	I could not perceive a clear answer to my question in the answer from the Council of State. I consider it appropriate to repeat the question: will the Council of State ensure that no petroleum production is authorised in the areas where the eco-professional levels in the consultation rounds prior to the concession rounds do not result in such activities? I would remind the Council of State that, after 2013, the current government has not followed one of the environmental warnings against petroleum production in vulnerable areas. It's also that even though an area is opened by the Storting, that doesn't mean it can be drilled anywhere in that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e1419	The representative Haltbrecken suggests and premises on his question that the petroleum activity is not conducted within an environmentally sound framework. That's not right. Let me make it clear: no petroleum activity on Norwegian base is carried out unless it can be carried out in a proper manner. Within the framework to which the Storting has joined, it is assessed, after a balanced assessment, which inputs are to be emphasised. The government is considering specific issues, such as the award of concession rounds and the granting of permits. Such matters are, as I said, submitted to all the relevant state councils prior to the decision, and then it is the government that makes the final balance and decides on the basis of the input from all the departments and departments concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e1426	I think I give up getting a clear answer from the Council of State on whether or not the government we base the environmental warnings on in the future. But: On 4 September, it became clear that there were a large number of applications from the oil industry to the TFO extension of the year. At the same time as the Minister for Oil and Energy is now responding to these requests, work is being done on the management plan for the Lofoten and the Barents Sea. In this context, the proposed 2019 TFO extension is particularly problematic in that Professional Forum now recommends changes to the extent of the vulnerable and valuable areas. And now it's about both larger and completely new vulnerable and valuable areas. New knowledge has emerged. So my question is, will the work that has now come about through the preparations for a new management plan mean that blocks that were announced in the TFO will not be allocated?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e1435	As the Council of State, I have tried to answer clearly the question raised by the representative, and I also believe that I have responded well. The management plans for marine areas identify areas that are particularly valuable and vulnerable, i.e. SVOs, and particularly valuable. Vulnerable sites do not have a direct effect in terms of limiting activity but signal the importance of showing particular care in these areas. For example, in order to protect valuable and vulnerable environmental values: on the basis of the applicable legislation, specific requirements are laid down for the given activity carried out. The requirements may apply to all or part of the area concerned and of course need to be assessed in detail. The framework for petroleum activities has been established in precisely these areas and in particularly valuable and vulnerable areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e1445	‘The Terje Halleland of the Party of Frontiers has stated that the Party of Progress wishes to set a limit at which the edge of the ice is always visible, in line with the wishes of the oil industry, without any professional foundation. The Granavolden platform has previously been modified in line with the wishes of the Progress Party, is it now negotiating that it can happen this time as well?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e1450	According to the Granavolden platform, the government will not allow for petroleum activity, or impact-free according to the Petroleum Act, in the sea areas outside the Lofoten, the West Pole and the Senja in the period 2017-2021, nor will it undertake petroleum activities at Jan Mayen, the ice edge, Skagerrak or the Moravians. The Government will establish the definition of the ice edge in the context of the revision of the Barents Sea Management Plan and the areas outside the Lofoten and in the light of the recommendations of the Professional Forum. The management of our marine areas takes place through comprehensive and systematic processes, through which knowledge of the environment and industrial activities is taken into account for the balances made. The implementation of the petroleum policy, including the concession policy, has been anchored in the Storting through spillage notifications. Particularly valuable and vulnerable areas do not have a direct impact in terms of limiting activity, but they – as I also said in the previous reply – signal the importance of showing particular care in the areas. In line with the framework to which the Storting has joined the Barents Sea in the south-east, as an additional protection of the important environmental values resulting from the ice edge, time limits have been set for exploration along the actual observed ice edge. These time limits relate to 23rd concession rounds, applied to the whole of the Southern Barents Sea, and form part of the framework for petroleum activities until the adoption of a new management plan for the area. Professional forums have provided the professional basis for the management plan for which the government is to promote the Stortinget in spring 2020. The subject matter includes an investigation into the ice edge zone. In the light of the recommendations of the Professional Forum, the Government will propose the definition of the ice edge. And how the ice edge is defined, and what kind of frameworks are set for the petroleum activity, the government will come back to Stortinget with in the big news for spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e1463	I thank you for your answer. It's interesting that the government will come back to it, because what's unclear here is whether there should be a politically controlled definition of the iskanxona, or whether it's a professionally based definition. We know from the past, for example. Canada, with the same data base, has moved its border further south, while Norway has moved its border further north. So this is a significant political space that has been expelled. My question is, does the state see it as a professional or political responsibility to define the iskanxona?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e1468	I believe I answered the question from the representative Fylkesnes in my main response. What I said was that in the light of the recommendations of the Professional Forum, the government will propose the definition of the ice edge. Now there's a lot of work going on, which also includes a lot of colleges, you get hearings. Then all the knowledge and all the hearings are taken into account when doing the job that I've told the government to do, and that we in the government platform have also been clear on how to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e1473	It's still unclear. We both come from a part of the country where it's very important to separate snows and bars, and 'professional' can mean so many things here. What gives cause for concern are some stakeholders in the definition of ‘professional’. The question is: when defining the concept of ‘iskantsona’, will one then ensure that it is actually based on unhealthy professional judgements and not a mix with the perspective of interest?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e1478	We have a comprehensive system, and I've tried to describe this system. It's a system where trade unions and stakeholder organisations get their input. I also show that it is precisely the professional recordings, the knowledge, that are taken into account when making decisions. But that's the way it's always been, that it's the government – based on the recordings you get, and the recordings you're going to get – that makes the final decision, and that makes the different choices before the decision is taken. So I want to say to the representative, there's no basis for going around and being worried.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e1483	Then your case no. 2, the ordinary question hour, over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-06.ana.ud314e1497	There is no record available. As a result, the issues on today's map are finished. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? It doesn't look like that. - The meeting has been cancelled.
