ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e52	A number of permit applications are available: from the Workers' Group on the leave of representatives Åsmund Aukrust and Kari Henriksen from 20 May to 23 May from the Right-wing Group on the leave of the representative of Torill Eidsheim for the period from 21 May to 23 May on the leave of the representative of Siv Mossleth on 21 and 22 May from the Central Party Group on the from the Left Group on the leave of the representative Abid Q. Raja from 21 May to 23 May all to attend meetings of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly at Svalbard, by the Group of the Right on welfare leave of the representative Jonny Finstad from 21 May until further notice from the representative of Fredric Holen Bjørdal on parental leave from 21 May to 23 May On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For West Agder County: Odd Omland 21-23. May For Akershus County: Solveig Schytz and Mani Hussaini 21-23. May For the state of Hordaland: Sigurd Hille 21-23. May For More and Romesdal counties: Anne Kristin Bryne 21-23. May For the Nordic counties: Elizabeth Åsjord Sire 21 May and until further notice and Kari Anne Bøkestad Andreassen 21-22. May
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e149	The representative of Une Bastholm will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e154	I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative to introduce a political strike rate for school students.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e159	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e177	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that up to six lines of reply are given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e186	I am pleased that we are now going to deal with a message for the Norwegian volunteer. This is a message that gives us a good picture of the status of volunteering, while at the same time pointing to important steps to ensure a strong, independent and diverse volunteering in the coming years. I have to be allowed to say that it has been a bit extra strain to be the case rapporteur for this very message. I would also like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in this matter. But I think it's a little extra stanchion for all of us to deal with a message that aims to strengthen the conditions of what, in spite of everything, engages thousands of people every single day, which was probably the place most of us – if not all of us – first got expressed and cared for our social exposure, and which provides the basis for the democratic message described, namely a democracy characterized by freedom of speech, where individuals can use their resources and experience mastery in interaction with and caring for each other. Because it's the small and big everyday contributions that matter. Whether it's Skeiv Cafe, who gathers sloppy asylum seekers and immigrants weekly here in Oslo or in Bergen, or the local senior dance at the Senior Centre at Os, or Norway's largest LAN, The Gathering at Hamar, or the gashuku weekends of one of the many karate clubs, are all these important social common arenas that would not have taken place without volunteering. The Committee had this matter for open consultation on 19 February this year, and I would like to thank all the contributions made by the various actors both in that hearing and in writing to the Committee. It is clear that this is a message that engages. I also feel that the committee has spent a lot of time going through the recordings and meeting the volunteer in several areas. The Communication defines and treats key areas of volunteering that face challenges and that I look forward to debating here today. Firstly, the threshold for participation must be lowered in order to ensure broad participation. It is a challenge that some groups systematically fall outside the scope of voluntary activities and that measures should be put in place to counter this. The notification confirms that high and broad participation is an objective in itself, and that non-governmental organisations should reach out to more, in particular to children and young people who are not already present. Furthermore, it is a prerequisite for a strong and independent sector to have sufficient resources to carry on voluntary activities. This is not only about economics, but also about, for example, access to premises. Premises, i.e. some place to be, are essential to make it possible to engage in voluntary activity. The challenges of access to premises are twofold: one must have enough premises and one must have suitable premises. At the same time, good grant schemes are essential to increase and maintain a high level of activity. It is gratifying that the government commits itself to a escalation plan that provides a VAT compensation scheme of 1.8 billion. kr. Government grants account for an important part of the revenues of voluntary organisations. These grants are also important to ensure other revenues, as they often help to provide a basis for organisational operations. Where a capacity to set up grant schemes that are far enough and are not considered bureaucratic, one will see the emergence of strong and autonomous voluntary initiatives. Another central intervention in this Communication is a notified simplification reform. There is a great need for voluntary simplification. Unnecessary complex and bureaucratic processes are a structural barrier to voluntary activity and participation. Everyone's earned that more of the time goes to activity and less to administration. A key prerequisite for this is simple application and reporting processes related to State grants. In the Communication, there is also an intention to facilitate interaction between the voluntary sector and the public through digitalisation. Digitalisation that leads to innovation and to more effective activity, revenue-bearing work and communication is a good thing for volunteering. Finally, as the Left Representative, I would like to say that, despite the fact that there are many interventions in this communication that the Committee is at the back of itself, there are also clear dividing lines, even in something as fundamental as how you view volunteering. For where the Workers' Party and the Centre write in their introductory remarks that prevention should govern voluntary policy, the Left and the Government Parties are committed to the autonomy and building of the volunteer from below. For volunteering is a good thing in itself and not just a means of achieving other societal tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e209	There is broad consensus in the text that volunteering does a phenomenal job — it creates good communities, it contributes to community and inclusion, it gives people the opportunity to meet and learn, to use their forces, it counteracts loneliness, it promotes public health, it contributes to good growth conditions and quality of life among the elderly, among others. Politicians too know the volunteer well. Most of us started volunteering in local teams and local politics, spent weekends and evenings, long before we got this as a paid job. Our task is not to determine what the volunteer is going to do. Our task is to determine what voluntary policy should contain in order to contribute to the success of volunteering. What we see is that a lot of societal goals can be achieved more easily and in a better way if we facilitate volunteering. We spend a lot of money in this community repairing things that happen, damage, people who are excluded, bad growing-up conditions, people who don't have good enough public health. These are things that volunteering can help us with. That's why the Red-Green parties, the Workers' Party and the Centre, write in their attitude that part of the voluntary policy should have as its heaven that we can prevent more and better facilitate people to live good lives. Then we say very clearly from, and there's a little bit of a parallel to the cultural message that we debated a few days ago, that in this area too we, as politicians, must be able to commit ourselves. In this area too, we must go beyond fine wording and vague wording. Here, too, we have to say that we're going to make sure that the framework conditions and the possibilities of volunteering to do their job get better. Voluntary activities include: that they experience the state bureaucracy as a work force and that the funding is distorted, in such a way that strong leadership is put in place. I heard the Minister of Culture himself say in a debate that what's the point of running with schooling if there's no money to it. The fact about running school is that you get active and competent members and people get to learn. But this must be up to the organisations themselves, there must be fewer denominations, more framework transfers, less bureaucracy, reports and controls, and more confidence in voluntary policy. In the Labour Party, we have prioritised the economic framework conditions. We have paid particular attention to the sports facilities and a regulated VAT compensation scheme for them. We have underlined the need for and the possibility of borrowing equipment to ensure that everyone joins, access to premises and to ensure that volunteering actually has real influence and participation in the decisions taken for volunteering. There is also a red thread from the Gerhardsen government's establishment of Norwegian Typing in 1947 and until today. The fact that we have an exclusive right model, which is now under intense pressure from international gambling companies, is a pillar of volunteer financing. I am pleased that the party of the Minister of Culture has become much more clear about it in recent years, and there is a broad consensus in the Committee that this work is important, and we also stress that it needs to be reinforced. What has been the most important matter of volunteering in our hearings in the committee has been to have a rule-based VAT compensation. It was a great pleasure in volunteering when the red-green government in 2008-2009 announced that we would introduce a VAT compensation. It came up pretty fast at 1 billion. kr. It was intended to cover the VAT costs of voluntary activity. It was unreasonable that a high mountain hotel had refunded the VAT on a snowmobile, while the Red Cross did not get it. This is a very unbureaucratic and easy way of supporting volunteering. We now propose from the red-greens that we do this in four years – that we spend time, because we realize that this cannot be done in one budget. Thus, we can give all the volunteers who are standing around the country, the opportunity to do their job, to spend their time on volunteering, not on endless money collections and revenue-intensive measures. We also underline the importance of continuing the red tape and including the voluntary nature of this, and we also ask the government to reintroduce a new post for the volunteer centres, which do a great job. With this, I address the proposals that we are included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e230	The representative Trond Giske has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e235	Freedom creates local commitment, community, integration and cultural and democratic awareness. That is why it is important for us that volunteering grows from below, freer from political governance and with a development on our own premises. Since volunteering is such an important building block in society, it is important that the economic and social background should not hinder participation and voluntary action. Since volunteering is to emerge from below, it is important to encourage all municipalities to establish their own voluntary policies — together with voluntary activities. In Moss, where I received the honor of being rapporteur for six years, we developed a good and inclusive voluntary policy in close cooperation with the actors. We established a volunteer coordinator, and we opened the House of Volunteers in 2017. This has become a melting pot for voluntary activity, from Somali unification through the dementia association to the veteran associations. This is an example of good local voluntary policies. In local volunteering, volunteering centres have an important place. We have about 425 of them, divided into 250 municipalities. These are in many ways the heart of local volunteering, such as the meeting place and the interaction arena. Despite increased government budgets, we see that more people are concerned about the conversion of the funding of the centres. It is therefore important to point out that, in recent years, municipalities have had a significantly more liberal economy and that increased government appropriations should also be followed up by an increase in local budgets. The local authorities must simply give priority to this. In order to ensure voluntary efforts, public contributions must be made to the simplification of administrative tasks. It is a positive news that the government will assess whether several grants can be changed from project-based grants to operating grants. This will be able to free up a lot of time. Another action is the creation of a web portal for all State grant schemes, and in this work it is important to include the sector and the competences already existing in the market. We will also refer to the government's invitation to municipalities and counties to open up loans for premises available on evenings and weekends. I am proud that the VAT compensation scheme has been reinforced by 784 million. kr since 2013. In 2019, it's a total of six billion. kr. In the message, the government is going to make an obliging plan for a run-up of 1.8 billion. kr by 2021. This is historic, and no government has ever prioritised such a framework for volunteering. The government parties here in Stortinget value this promise, but at the same time we call on the government to follow up on developments and, if necessary, to review the level if the applicant is much higher than expected. At the same time, I would like to remind you that in 2019 we again grant 100 pst. authorised applications for VAT compensation for the construction of sports facilities. In 2013, the level was 64 million. kr, this year’s allocation is SEK 294 million. kr. I find it disappointing that the opposition greatly reduces the debate on the volunteering message to a debate primarily on economics. The message is about so much more than lifting the importance of volunteering and its framework conditions. Voluntaryness has a self-esteem, and it should not be an instrument to achieve other goals that we politicians feel are legitimate or important. In this area, there is a clear difference between the opposition and the governmental parties. The Labour Party and the Centre say in a note that they want a policy where prevention is much more focused, and also leave it governing voluntary policy. This testifies to a completely different view of volunteering than I, the Right and the Position have, and I hope the volunteer also notices this. Initially, I said that economic and social background should not prevent participation and voluntary efforts. National grant scheme for the inclusion of children in low-income families is one important measure here — a scheme that has been significantly strengthened in recent years. Another important instrument for achieving this objective is the lending centres. Last, but not least, I want to draw out the leisure card for everyone between the ages of 6 and 18, to whom the government has committed itself in the Granavolden platform. The first pilots are already in operation in 2019. Voluntaryness Norway has proposed that a year of volunteering be dedicated in order to shed light on the beautiful activity taking place in Norwegian communities. The government is going in to make it this year in 2022. This deserves the volunteer, and I am happy to work to get to a great and worthy mark.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e256	We in the Center Party call ourselves the Volunteer Party. We do that because volunteering is a core issue for the Center Party, which strongly advocates activity, culture, community and good life throughout the country, and for the country to be built from below. And we call ourselves the volunteer party with an extra straight back because Freewill Norway before the election campaign in 2017 selected us as the best party for volunteering – nothing less. But before I get a little too unsavory on the pear, it must be said that it was not exactly a very superior saying, and that everyone knows that all parties in Norway recognize and work for the volunteer. That's why I think most people in this room have had both the benefit and the pleasure of working on the volunteer message, which we're going to debate today. It is very good because it has given us a good overview of the state of affairs in this area, and because it refers to the work being done, or proposes several measures that a joint committee is behind, such as: measures for more simplification, initiatives to identify which buildings can be easily accessed by volunteering and to consider establishing a web portal with an overview of all State grant schemes. We in the Centre Party are concerned that volunteering itself is actively involved in the preparation and implementation of these new measures, such as: the establishment of a simplification board and the preparation of a much-mentioned leisure card. That is why, together with the Labour Party and the Socialist Left, we propose that this be done in cooperation with the Freedom Norway and the National Council of Norwegian Children’s and Youth Organisations. We in the Center Party believe that even if the volunteer message contains a lot of good thought, it just isn't good enough. It's because it doesn't really deliver on the biggest and most important matter of volunteering, the one that they've wanted all year round, and that they're rightly expected to get, among other things. because most government parties have full VAT compensation in their programme, that is, voluntary teams and associations are given the right to not pay taxes on their dues. We in the Central Party have made a number of proposals on this very issue on several occasions. Together with the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party, we now propose that the government submit proposals to convert the VAT compensation into the voluntary provision of a regulated scheme, where the percentage reimbursed is regularly increased, so that in four years it is 100 pst. It is well said in the voluntary service that the government will step up the reimbursement scheme with a target of 1.8 billion. kr in 2021, but it is far from good enough. Volunteering itself is really disappointed. Their calculations showed that there were 400-500 million missing. kr. In addition, we in the Centre Party, together with SV, have made proposals for another incredibly important measure to ensure that volunteering remains a key component of our democracy, namely that the places that bring together volunteering, the organisationalised cultural buildings, should be made easier to build and maintain by providing VAT compensation for it. This also wants volunteering to hurt and is something the entire committee should have agreed to. Voluntary organisations create arenas for belonging and cohesiveness in the community. Physical arenas are therefore important and right to prioritise, as policies and structures rely on volunteering to help solve the challenges facing our society, among others. Our public health, our growing need for care, exclusion and integration. Our volunteer centres are also important arenas when it comes to helping to solve many of the latter challenges. However, since their work is not required by law, they themselves do not — nor do we in opposition — believe that volunteer centres as national tools will be able to function as well in the future as they are now, since the success formula for a 60 pst split layer. government funding has been disbanded. Together with the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party, we have therefore proposed that all 455 voluntary bodies in the country should have their funding restored by a post in the Ministry of Culture's budget. Maybe three of us could be called volunteer central parties in the future? I say it most like a joke, but a little serious is behind it, because when it comes to volunteering, the differences between the parties' ability to listen to volunteering and to prioritize it have become clearer. The government doesn't listen enough and doesn't give enough priority. In this particular field, I would like the differences between the parties to be minimal. Indeed, it needs to be voluntary, if it is to continue to play an increasingly important role for both the welfare state, the communities and each of the Nordics. With that, I take up the proposal of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e277	The representative of Åslaug Sem-Jakobsen has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e282	As mentioned earlier from the interlocutors, this is a historic escalation plan in terms of ambitions. I have to be allowed to say that I think it is a bit of a trick with the story when some representatives stand on this platform and promise gold and green forests, and then we know that when the Senter party and the Workers' Party collapsed, there was also no full funding for VAT compensation in the plans. What the story actually shows is that it went very, very slow. But now this isn't a budget discussion, so I'll leave it. I would like to remind you of an incident that happened very recently, with the ship «Viking Sky», which had major problems on the Norwegian coast. It is a practical example of how rescue teams and not least volunteering stood together and in a short time managed to make a very formidable effort for passengers, of course, but also Norway around. The effort that was made, all coordination, everything that had to be in place when the passengers arrived ashore, we had never made it clear that it had not been for the efforts of just the volunteers. We go into a summer. We know that the rescue company is one of the actors that should be out there looking out for us. We know they had a busy summer last year. Let's hope it doesn't get as busy this year. But I still want to stress the importance of having these beautiful people in place. As was also mentioned, the other day we had the pleasure of being able to spread the good news out in the municipalities about measures for children in low-income families, just so they can get an activity in e.g. the free time of the coming summer holidays. Many of these measures are actually carried out by volunteers, and there is also a good way to pursue policies. For the Progress Party, it is important that voluntary action be taken. It must be free of political control. Then it's the volunteer's own agenda that's going to be in focus. As the government emphasizes in the message, it's the activity itself that's going to be in focus, and that's exactly where we see the big differences between the government parties and the others. It actually illustrated the case rapporteur Grunde Almeland in an excellent way, so I don't feel like I need to elaborate here. What is clear, however, is that volunteering has a great deal to do, including in terms of prevention, as other representatives have pointed out. But that should not lead the policy. When it comes to the activity card, I want to get as many recordings as possible. Of course, it's fine if Volunteering Norway or others want to participate, but I think that here it's important that we have a width, and that everyone gets the opportunity to submit their recordings, because volunteering is wider and much larger than that. We adopted a leisure declaration. We're starting to see the results of it, even in the municipalities, but when we first talk about the message here today, and you criticize the government, I'd say it's little new to look at other policies from the other parties. What it focuses most on is actually house, while we focus on the activity itself. I have no faith that state overrides e.g. municipal construction and how to use it is the right way to do it. What I believe, however, is that the country's rapporteurs can take an initiative. We all know that there is one party in this Chamber that has more rapporteurs out there than any of us. Maybe someone actually should have talked a little bit together? In fact, I have much greater ambitions for volunteering than we are the only ones sitting here in Oslo and on the Stortinget, who are going to govern the details of volunteering. I have great faith in local democracy, I have great faith in the communities and the neighbourhoods where the activity takes place. It has to get out of there, and then, of course, municipal politicians too have to get on the road. It's perhaps my biggest call here today: of course we're going to contribute, but I think it's time that some people also ask their local politicians to come on the track to facilitate good volunteering out where people live.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e303	One of the most beautiful things about Norway is how well organized we are. There is a voluntary organisation for the most part in this country. There's something we might be able to pull a little bit off the smileband again and again, but it's actually a great force with the Norwegian community. The fact that voluntary work, the sharing of tasks, interests or just fun, is so widespread in this country makes civil society in Norway strong. It is not just that Norway would stop without all the thousands of hours and annual work put into voluntary work, no, it also has a value in itself. It is democratizing in practice. Ordinary people who solve things together are Community Norway at their best. But to be so strong and so important to Norway in the future, one of the most important tasks for us is both to lower the thresholds to participate and not least to keep the volunteer free. The voluntary teams and associations themselves need to identify what kind of tasks they are going to do, what they're going to do, and how they're going to work. We need to avoid the management of volunteering after – well as good – goals we had to have, and then we need to do something about the project and reporting area that characterises the funding of volunteering. That is precisely what hinders freedom. The best way to do something about it is obviously to increase the free resources, the means of operation, so that the resources of the volunteer are used on the basis of the volunteer itself, and not for reporting and application forms. In addition, we need to ensure simplification, and then volunteering itself points to the Voluntary Register as one of the main instruments. The voluntary service should certainly have lifted the ambitions for that register much higher. The Register of Volunteers and Public Application Portals must be able to talk to each other properly. Simplification and free means may be particularly important for young volunteers. I want to promote children's and youth's freedom in particular, from which I have my own background. I know how important this part of volunteering is as a democratic school, where you can meet without high performance demands, where you can grow. But there are some challenges that young volunteers in particular face, and they point in particular to how enormously difficult it has been to get premises around their activities. I myself have desperately tried to find schools for overnight seminars, and now we hear that it has not been better since my time – on the contrary. Therefore, it does not respond to calls. We have to establish common platforms, so that it becomes easy for local states around to apply, and then we have to make demands. Therefore, SV is proposing today to ask the government to provide for voluntary teams and associations to have access to municipal building for both their activities and events. So the main requirement of volunteering is to put an end to the tax on voluntary work, full VAT compensation. Government's objective of increasing VAT compensation to 1.8 billion. SEK in 2021 is far from covering the actual VAT costs incurred by non-governmental organisations. According to the estimates of Freedom in Norway, what we have already heard will lack between 400 million. NOK 500 million and 500 million. NOK to complete the 2021 scheme. That is why I am very pleased that a whole red-green side today is proposing to turn the VAT compensation for voluntary organisations into a regulated scheme where the percentage reimbursed is regularly escalated, so that we can reach 100 pst. within four years. It will provide far more predictability for all voluntary teams and associations. They will know how much they will be compensated for, and finally they will be compensated for everything. It's taking the volunteer seriously, it's responding to the main demands of volunteering, and it'll be the greatest, most concrete promise we can make for volunteering now. With that, I would like to address the SV's proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e322	The representative Freddy André Supreme Court has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e328	The Christian cultural heritage has given us some basic values I think should characterize politics – values such as the inviolability of human dignity, the administrative responsibility and responsibility for our fellow human beings. At the same time, Christian democracy is something more. It is an idea that the most crucial thing in society is not the state or politics, but the community maintained by families, religious communities, volunteering and institutions. That is why it is not all the State has to take responsibility for alone. Values such as honesty, propriety and not least personal responsibility contribute to creating a good society for all, where the small communities are at the centre – the small communities that are not about state, state or municipality, but about voluntary sector and civil society. Civil society provided the basis for Norway’s prosperity and well-being. The Norwegian welfare debate is often one-sided and focuses on either the market or the state. But there's a third way, civil society, built up by volunteering and the non-profit sector. There is a need to ensure good framework conditions for voluntary culture, health and care actors and voluntary organisations. This is not about putting voluntary policy into fine words, and it is not about holding fine parties – no, this is serious, because it is about social views. Norway has a diversity of voluntary organisations, ranging from the Scout and 4H, sports teams and various stakeholder organisations, to study associations and political organisations. The variety of organizations testify to a great and strong commitment, and it shows the value of social communities. This cannot and shall never be replaced by the State. As a cultural committee, we also know to value voluntary cultural life as part of this, as for example. choirs, corps, amateur theatres, layers, orchestras and dance groups. Organisations and voluntary cultural life must be guaranteed real freedom from state over-management. They must have good operational conditions. Voluntary organisations are important for the personal development of people and for the experience of coherence and participation in society, and voluntary efforts are essential for recruitment to professional cultural life. A strong civil society and a comprehensive voluntary sector are basically about taking care of our freedom – freedom from state coercion and override, freedom from ensunciation and A4. The diversity of a strong civil society is the very key to a society in which personal responsibility and life development can be cultivated without the State taking over. Freedom is glued to society. Therefore, it is not the task of the country to provide detailed guidance to non-governmental organisations. Freedom shall be free, because it is precisely what motivates extra efforts; it is what strengthens communities. When the left-hand side talks about the community, I hear too often the state. In the reality picture of the left, volunteering doesn't fit completely. Despite many fine words, including those from this pulpit, we have a completely different view. Again, it's about social vision. The Christian People's Party has always talked about volunteering because it's about activities that are completely different from the state or market; it's about people's everyday lives. And small and large communities that are driven by volunteering and hard work are one of the finest and most important things we have in our society. Voluntary teams and associations have a self-value. The State shall strengthen the voluntary nature, not govern it. Many people talk about volunteering as a third sector, but for Christian People's Party, volunteering is the first sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e351	Voluntaryness is one of the stones of the core wall of a society that is characterized by trust, freedom of expression and caring for one another. This is a message about a force that lies deep in the Norwegian People's Party, and about an effort that is essential for society to actually go around. Norwegian voluntarity has a special historical role to play in the maritime organisation, empowerment and drive of each individual citizen. Voluntary activities are the very basis for the spirit and tolerance of communities and our communities. The strong voluntary sector we have in Norway, bottoms of initiative, progress and innovation from the citizens’ seas – not from the authorities. The gathering of people to meet the needs of society, the gathering of people when they want to be heard, the gathering of people to cultivate their interests and the gathering of people to make an effort for others and for their community does not take place through directives and laws and regulations. It happens through people who make their own choices. Most of the Community institutions we have in Norway — whether they are hospitals, schools, kindergartens or cultural schools — are created by the voluntary initiative of citizens and not by politicians. Therefore, this call for proposals is not a description of the tasks that public authorities consider voluntary action to be necessary. There is a description of how the state should contribute to the continued growth and development of volunteering on its own premises. I notice that the opposition disagrees with those remarks. We believe that volunteering should be free and willing. Voluntary activities are part of virtually all sectors of society. 13 out of 15 ministries grant grants to non-governmental organisations and voluntary activities. This call for proposals will help to coordinate this work. Participation in voluntary activities is a good thing for individuals and for society. Individual mastering and community experience. Broad participation is therefore the overall voluntary policy objective of this Communication. The voluntary sector shall be strong. The Nordics say more than 63 pst. that they have made voluntary efforts in the last year. This figure is high in Norwegian and international terms. What has been a little lost in the debate so far, and which worries the government, is that someone falls out of this work. We want more people to have the opportunity to participate in voluntary activities, and believe that it is a major obstacle if large social groups are not allowed to be part of the voluntary activity. We don't want non-governmental organisations to do activities for those who fall out, but we want a voluntary policy that makes everyone involved. That's why we've created national grant schemes to include kids from low-income families, that's why we've signed the leisure statement, and that's why we're now working on getting a youth leisure card. We know that volunteering grows best from below. That is why we have chosen to support it by creating a stepping-up plan, as the Stortinget has asked for, for example. on VAT compensation. We simplify in application writing and reporting. The aim of these organisations is activity and participation, not application lettering. Therefore, in this message we outline a simplification reform. Simplification reform keywords are predictability through multi-annual agreements, several digital solutions, and we need to work with organisations to find red tape. Then we're going to listen to all the organizations, not just the two that the opposition chose to mention in the hearing. We will also listen to special cultural and child and youth volunteering, which says there is a need for more and more suitable volunteering facilities. We're going to map state buildings that can be used by volunteering today. I hope that all the parties that have rapporteurs at all are able to inform down that facilitating the volunteering of municipalities is quite important. This is a communication for the State's voluntary policy. We also believe that municipalities should have a voluntary policy. We have great confidence that better solutions can be found if we draw them closer to the citizens and that not all solutions should be made in the state and in this Chamber. I'll end by saying that I'm looking forward to 2022. Then we will celebrate the great year of volunteering in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e374	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e379	There is a broad consensus in this Chamber that volunteering should be both free and willing, that they themselves should organise their own work and work according to their own objectives. It's a very up-to-date debate to try to claim something else, although it's not to weaken the willingness to get what a great social benefit it makes us have a strong volunteer. The articles from both the Minister of Culture and several government parties could have been taken from the debate on the Culture Communication a few days ago. It's unfortunate, it's said, that the opposition is only concerned with money and framework conditions, and that's interfering with volunteering. What kind of debate should we have if we are not to be able to put any clear expectations on public volunteering policy? Isn't that what this message is about? This has been a long fight – to get the grassroots percentage, to get the VAT refund and now to get the full VAT refund. Why does the Minister of Culture stand on the wrong side in all these struggles?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e388	I can refer to the setting where the Working Party and the Center Party write: ‘These members want a policy where we focus on prevention much more strongly, and leave it also governing our voluntary policy.’ I have a past as Secretary General of the Swedish Council for Children's and Youth Organizations of Norway, LNU. Then we made a report called The Brain Prevention, that voluntary activity never has its own value, but should always be a reason to achieve something else. It's usually called prevention. It's not like we're building an opera because adults aren't supposed to drink or not hit each other that day. Probably they're going to drink a little more the day they go in the opera, than another, usual evening. When we're dealing with adult culture, when we're dealing with adult freedom, we have other goals, but here's the prevention that's supposed to be the leading thread. It is the prevention of the Workers' Party and the Centre's view is that it should be lifted much more strongly. It is absolutely true: prevention is not the main reason why we are doing volunteer work, in this message.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e398	It must be possible for the Minister of Culture to see that prevention and the creation of a good society can be a very good reason for the state’s use of money — not for what volunteering is doing. The sports teams run sports because they think it's fun with sports. But maybe we should spend a little bit more money on sports, so we save billions on the hospital? It's a good use of money. We're talking about a VAT refund of perhaps 400 to 500 million. kr. Norway’s health expenditure is increasing by many billions every year. Does the Minister of Culture see that it might be smart for politicians to spend money on prevention rather than repair and thus give free and willing sport and volunteering better framework conditions? Is it a crime against volunteering to say that it's stupid of us to spend money on drugs, on prison, on exclusion, on disability, and that it's much smarter to spend money on a free and willing volunteering that gets better framework conditions? Does the Minister for Culture disagree with such reasoning?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e405	No, we only disagree on whether prevention should be the guiding force for support for volunteering. It's not for this government. This government values voluntary voluntary policy, but we also increase VAT compensation. Now we're making a plan that we've been asked to do from Stortinget. But VAT compensation is not solved in this message, it is solved in budgets. We've seen what has been prioritised from the opposition. If we had looked at the money allocated to this scheme in the last year's budget from the opposition parties, it would have taken seven years before we had achieved this with the Central Party, 14 years before we had achieved these objectives with the Workers' Party's alternative budget, and 17 years with that granted by SV in its budget. It shows the truth of what is a priority when it comes to budgetary procedures. Then I would like to take that debate again, but then I would also like to see what the other parties are willing to prioritise in the budgets. We have been willing to give priority to volunteering, and we have increased the VAT compensation scheme every year.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e414	That thinking about facilitating volunteering can be very good social policy, not government volunteering policy, comes out very well in the volunteering message, so it doesn't have to be the Council of State to worry that we haven't gotten along. The Left Party was opposed when we made sure to get out that part of the tipping that went straight into the state budget as an income, and made sure to get it into the volunteer. The left was opposite the grass root on the day it came. There had to be a red-green government in place, after the Bondevik government, to obtain a VAT refund of one billion. And now the left also goes against full VAT compensation. In a post at the NRK, the Secretary-General of Freedom Norway, Stian Slotterøy Johnsen, says that hard work is getting worse conditions than private business, and calls the government talking about this for party speeches. Where does the Council of State find those who share her view of providing full VAT compensation, good framework conditions and seeing this from a social point of view are a threat to the nature and independence of volunteering? Where in volunteering does she find an example of that?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e423	No, and that is why we give priority to the VAT compensation system. We have done that in each budget. We wait and see if the opposition is willing to do it in its own way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e428	It's important to come up with numbers and digits. We claimed that in the previous debate with the family and culture committee, which we had here on Tuesday. I think the Minister will do so in this communication on VAT compensation. Our proposal is even more binding, so for me, it doesn't feel quite relevant to point out what we've said before, when we actually go as far as we do. But on Tuesday, the minister also asked for ideas. We come up with ideas in this treatment, and I really want to take up one of them. We point to the Telemark County Municipality in our positioning remarks. They won the prize for the best municipality in terms of volunteering, because they've arranged a very good search portal, and because they, among other things, have. have concluded several long-term cooperation agreements with organisations. Has the minister looked at these ideas, and does she want to take the recordings further?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e437	Yes, these are good ideas. There are many states that have done a lot of good things, and there are a lot of people now that also establish things, for example. good apps for accessing barley. There are several who are also good at appreciating volunteers by issuing prizes, and there are municipalities that get prizes. All of that we're going to gather the most knowledge of, because it's doing a lot of good out there. The opposition's attitude worries me a little – it's very little faith in municipal volunteering policy. I know that this is something very many rapporteurs are working very hard on. In Oslo, we got through the first volunteer plan for Oslo. Having voluntary policies locally is quite important in order to channel all the involvement that exists there. Water-tight shots have been carried between the various sectors of the community, such as: to ensure that schools are not available for volunteering. This needs to be addressed by local politicians, to make good plans and to ensure that volunteering is well done.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e443	I completely disagree that my party and opposition are not concerned with the volunteering that is taking place in the municipalities. But I'm glad that the answer implies that this will be a process with, among other things. Telemark's idea inside the picture. Once I have the minister here, I have another question. Today, it is only playful sports laws that can apply for VAT compensation for the construction of sports facilities. Organisational cultural houses and meeting rooms owned and operated by non-governmental organisations are not allowed to apply for VAT compensation in the case of new, refurbished or refurbished buildings. Does the Council of State consider that it is right or fair that organisational cultural structures should not be refunded for VAT while sports facilities receive it? Is that fair – does the Minister think it is right?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e452	As the representative points out, there are many schemes in which sport, in the distinction between culture and sport, has been made much more regulated than the culture has done. That's why we think we need to get an overview of what this means, whether this is something that it's possible to implement. But then we first have to have numbers and facts on the table to see the consequences. We would like to have arrangements that we should be able to complete completely, and then we need to know that there are arrangements that are within reach. We've had measures at state level, and then we're going to have a review of this field to see if we can change the grant system anything. What we've done in the last two years, when I've had the opportunity to manage the budgets, is to increase support for regional cultural buildings in general in order to be able to build that kind of building better than we've been able to in recent years.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e457	Child and youth freedom has an extra big place in my heart, and I know that the Council of State also has a background from it in its time. The main challenge for young volunteers, at least in everyday life today, is access to premises, such as: for overnight seminars during the weekends. I myself have participated in sending out hundreds of e-mails and have been close to having to cancel events. That's just been more of a thing since my time, we can hear. Therefore, the young volunteer himself has asked for two things. First, they have asked for a national common platform for easier communication with schools and municipalities around, which are very difficult today, and they have asked for guidance on accessibility. But in this message we get a call to the municipalities. Does the Council of State really think that urgings will make a difference to the young volunteer?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e462	I very much agree with the representative's problem description, and I have also felt that on the body at events. When I asked kids about this for a while back, they had two recordings. One was access to construction, and the other was public transport in order to have the opportunity to participate in voluntary work. We continue to work on finding good arrangements for this. That's why we want municipalities to also have a voluntary policy, because today I think the municipalities only manage school buildings through the school budget, which have no insight into what those premises could actually have been used to ensure that they have the youth activity for which there is potential in their own municipality. I know that SV does not have so many rapporteurs, they do have about as many as Left, but I hope SV uses its rapporteurs to break through these structures, for example. in Oslo is becoming very simple for organizations to call and say they want to use a school.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e467	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e474	When you look closely at volunteering, you can see that it consists of small communities, people who engage in choirs, horticultures or a congregation and feel that it is meaningful. I've seen it in close proximity for many years in Karmøy. It creates commitment and effort, it's glued in the local environment, it gives a meaningful everyday life for many, and it creates a durable living environment – all this because volunteering works on its own terms. Sometimes when I hear the debate here, I get the impression that the left-hand side would rather have some political system thinking, rather think of a little instrumental use of volunteering. It's going to be completely wrong. Voluntaryness works best when it is free on its own terms and conditions. Obviously, we politicians want to create a better society, and then we're going to give them that freedom, and society gets it for free. We know that volunteering means a lot in Norwegian society. The fires get flowers, it creates commitment, it creates the identity of children and young people, and they get ownership for good purposes. That's how we want it. Then we don't have to come in and place terms and orders here. Rather, we must help them to function freely and well, and that in itself is preventive work, but it is not the governing objective of our politicians. Then cooperation and communication between volunteers and politicians are crucial, so that we facilitate reporting – that we help to simplify annual reports and reports, etc., which should be clearly there. We need to actively find simplification measures and simplify reporting procedures when they are to participate in society. We fully agree that voluntary efforts should not be taxed. The Christian People's Party wants full VAT compensation for non-governmental organisations, and we are pleased that a total accumulation will have a escalating plan. The Christian People's Party is doing something about this, including: We have now received 10 million in place through the revised national budget. kr for a pilot project for a leisure card, mainly possibly for families with difficult finances. This will also benefit voluntary activities, where children and young people and families can choose freely how they will use the resources made available by the community and that it is not subject to conditions and conditions from the political left. I'm very happy that the Christian People's Party gets to be part of this, and I'm glad that we get to join in and strengthen the volunteer further. We've also fixed that on the paper in the Granavolden Declaration.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e489	The representative Geske said in his reply to the Council of State that the differences may not be so big, and that we might actually share basic vision. I believe that there is a significant difference between how you basically view volunteering, because there is a significant difference between giving money for a specific purpose, or prioritizing the money for free money so that the volunteer can dispose of it. That is precisely what we are signalling in this communication – that a greater proportion of the funds transferred to voluntary activity should be in the form of free resources. I also have to ask questions when I hear from the same representative that there is a lack of concrete action in the communication, and that we need less earring – while we see that of the seven proposals on which the Workers' Party is involved in this communication, four of them are concerned with including several in different processes, i.e. participation, something that the Council of State has been clearly aware of, and on which we have also expressed clear expectations in the comment form of the vote. A fifth proposal concerns the illegal marketing of games, which the government has already notified and initiated its work. Then there are only two proposals on which the Labour Party is involved, which are specific in this communication. One is about the VAT compensation system, which we have talked a lot about. The second is about earmarking more money to the volunteer centres over the state budget, for which the representative, in his introductory speech, criticised the government. So they criticised the government for too much ringing. Here are some questions that are clearly left. I would also like to point out some of what the representative, Sem-Jacobsen, says about the volunteer centres. I just want to repeat something that has been repeated several times in this hall. To ensure that municipalities actually give priority to volunteering, local volunteering policies are needed. The money for the volunteer centres has not disappeared, but they have made sure that the municipalities can dispose of the money themselves. In this way, municipalities must also be involved in ensuring an active and good local voluntary policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e498	Volunteering is one of the finest things in our society -- hundreds of thousands of people in the city and built that give of their time, their forces and their resources for the things they burn for, and for a better community. Willingness is the very foundation of the important, small and large, strong communities with which we are surrounded. Thinking about Norwegian society without volunteering is, in fact, impossible. What I said now, I guess everyone agrees on, and it's been repeated from the pulpit of all the speakers. Had it been up to the right side of this debate, it is precisely these things we should have said and nothing more, because in the cultural debate two days ago, the right side chooses to take the debate on the debate instead of going into the reality of what voluntary policy should really be about. Freedom policy is not about talking about all the fine volunteering does, and commending them and pointing out their invaluable role in creating stronger communities in Norwegian society. The volunteer knows that well, and we know that well. Everyone agrees. Voluntary policies should better facilitate the free and willing exercise of all this activity in urban and rural areas throughout the country. It must then be about framework conditions, and then it must be about money. VAT compensation is the most important form of voluntary action. It must be predictable, and it must be full. The problem now is that it is underfunded and therefore unpredictable. It was the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party that introduced it, and every year in the Red-Green government we stepped it up, so that the gap – the underfunding – became ever smaller. But in 2013, when there was a government change, it said stop, and in the years after 2013, this gap has increased. That's the political account after this government. We need a full VAT compensation scheme. I am pleased that the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre are once again united to give the volunteer the most important framework conditions, and that we show that we are willing to listen and give priority to volunteering. Here we separate the right-hand side and the right-hand side. Another theme that the communication may mention, but which has not been in the debate today, and which is also about listening to volunteering and seeing what is an important framework for it, is Norwegian gambling policy. The Norwegian model of exclusive rights in which Norwegian Typing, with preferential social policy reasons, has the exclusive right to play, is important for Norwegian culture, sport and volunteering. You can't manage without the exclusive model also giving billions of dollars for good purposes around the municipalities. Here again, the opposition and the position are separating layers when the Right, the Advance Party and the Left say they want to watch and challenge the game model.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e513	The Labour Party is based on voluntary work and grew up as a consequence of organised labour activity. Women and men gathered and organized themselves against the injustice and oppression of greedy employers and the exclusion of the upper class – as women’s struggle for the right to self-determination, and as the gay and lesbian struggles for equivalency in the 1970s and 1980s. Voluntaryness is something. Voluntary engagement means something to individuals, to communities that volunteer around, and to society. Today, we have a diversity: rescue work, sport, religious communities, culture and child and youth work. Non-profits are today essential building blocks in our society and crucial to the quality of our small communities, whether it's the well-being of the street, the housing team I live in, the corps or the tour association our kids are participating in. Volunteering Norway and LNU know diversity and have a great deal of knowledge of volunteering. This knowledge is important for the state, legislators and granting authorities to participate so that we can design a good framework. The members of all these organisations get a framework around their own voice through volunteering and non-profit organisations, and that is important in a democracy. Especially in our time, when we see a polarized political debate, it is incredibly important that everyone find a place and get recognition for their opinions and participation. Differences are growing. The political change of words is polarized. The lowest-income families are reduced in purchasing power. More children stay outside. This is why the Workers' Party is committed to not pursuing some kind of compensation policy, i.e. to closing gaps where the actual policies and political frameworks fail. We want general and universal arrangements to the greatest extent possible, such as school food, AKS and BUA schemes, so that everyone can participate – large amounts of money that the Workers' Party will spend on everyone, not on a few. The BUA scheme is just like that. Sports and leisure equipment shall be used for lending in all municipalities. Parents and children shall be able to use it free of charge. It shall not be subject to proceedings. We have voted against the government's removal of the earring of the volunteers. They sent a letter yesterday to everyone in the Committee expressing great concern. This is an example of government governance that exacerbates the involvement of non-profit organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e528	We are several parties here who want, and who have programmed, full VAT compensation for the volunteer. As mentioned, we are well on our way to the goal, and for the Christian People's Party, we have strengthened the arrangement in each and every budgetary round. There is something on the left that has not been prioritised in its alternative budgets, or that the red-green ones, for that matter, delivered at the time they were in government. It is also worth noting that the Workers' Party's Education Committee report proposes moving children's leisure activities into school, run by paid instructors and trainers — quite obviously at the expense of the many leisure activities offered today at evening and afternoon by the volunteer. Any implementation of this proposal would affect volunteering and with those children and young people. Yes, for there's a difference in meeting a coach who more or less just does the job she or he's paid for, and meeting the coach who makes a weekly effort year after year, just because he or she thinks it's so wonderfully rewarding to encourage young people through challenges, hie at them and watch them bloom. It is high time that the parties on the left also recognised the volunteering of the important social force it is – not just as a complement to the public, but not just as a means of achieving a goal. Yes, unfortunately, it is spelled out directly in the Labour Party and the comments of the Centre Party in the vote, and the representative Giske referred to it himself that prevention should be the driving force behind voluntary policy – prevention should be the driving force behind voluntary policy. No, leave the volunteer alone, and let it be a goal in itself. When the Christian People's Party says that we want to strengthen the volunteer, we are serious. That is why we have strengthened the VAT compensation system in each and every budgetary round. That's why we want to continue to increase the basic support, because we know that operating an organisation requires a big device. That's why we want to debureaucratic, simplify and secure mechanisms that provide greater predictability, and that's why we're dedicated not just to providing project funding, and at least not just policy-priority project funds – we'll give room for organisational democracy to rule itself. Not least, we have come up with the idea of a leisure card for all children and young people aged 6 to 18 years, in order to ensure that absolutely everyone can participate and have the opportunity to experience community and mastering – a leisure card to be drawn up in cooperation with the volunteer, with the wish that the scheme should also strengthen just volunteering. It happens with certainty that children who themselves experience being part of an activity driven by voluntary engagement, even often find pleasure in becoming a volunteer. The Christian People's Party will strengthen the will, not govern it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e546	Associations and religious communities in Norway are not primarily employees; there are just as many volunteers who give of their time and resources to the work of the community and the religious community. There are many tasks to be solved in an active religious community, both with and without a permanent place of residence, so they are a lot in use. In fact, in that sense, all measures in the religious community in Norway are voluntary. Volunteers spend countless hours as volunteers in worship, on Friday prayer, on humanitarian work, and on maintenance work, in the kitchen, on technical things, as leaders in child and youth work, in the diaconal and outspoken work, on the second-hand market, as singers and musicians, in Sunday school, in the choir school, and much more, much more. Nevertheless, religious communities always want to welcome new ones to different tasks, because volunteers are adding something — something that cannot be bought for money. They're a driving force. They are committed to what benefits themselves. They inspire, and they motivate large congregations and religious communities to do something for society and for individuals. ‘Duge’ is a word that comes from the north and is about being good enough — capable, for real use, to have virtue: a valuable quality. Another word that is related to “duge” and that we often use is “dunge”. Yes, in fact, the word was referred to Norway’s national word in 2004. The north-eating "dugnat" means help, good work, power, and that's what it's all about. It's about standing together. It's about a community of people reaching for the same goal, and today it's about volunteering. We've got a lot, but we want more – and those who volunteer will do even more. This voluntary service therefore represents a good balance and is a clear step on the road in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e558	Clearly, it's easy to promise in opposition. As has already been said from the pulpit, none of the opposition parties have contributed funds in their alternative state budgets to a hundred percent increase in VAT compensation in four years, despite the fact that the same decisions have been taken in several representative proposals over the past few years. Trond Giske said they had delivered a billion in VAT compensation when they were in government. In 2012, 620 million were paid. kr in VAT compensation, which has now been raised to historically high SEK 1.6 billion. NOK, and we promise in the voluntary service a escalating to SEK 1.8 billion. kr. In addition, we write in a note from the government parties that we ask the government to follow closely the development of growth in the number of applications. The VAT compensation scheme is an important and strong support for voluntary activity. And then to draw comparisons with business in that context is going to be wrong. When hotels buy sacks and potatoes for the bagpipe, it is quite right that they get refunded that VAT, but they do because we as customers pay the VAT when we buy the services at the hotel in the next round. This is always done by the end-user in a trade chain, and therefore we have the VAT compensation scheme as a voluntary support scheme. Trond Giske said in the change of line that the government's use of money must be governed politically. And as many people have been involved, myself included: the Labour Party and the Center Party write in their attitude that prevention needs to be much stronger and governing volunteering policy. Then I don't understand how to stand in the next round and say that you are for free and independent volunteering. Actually, it's not related. On the opposite side of the political divide, we establish that volunteering has and must have its own value and not be an instrument for politicians. In addition to the rule-driven hundred percent VAT compensation, which the parties have not financed, it's thought-dry from the opposition's side here. Most of the nine proposals that have been put forward in the matter are proposals that are already active.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e571	It seems to me that the representatives of the right-hand side in this debate have completed some posts in their offices and kept them from this pulpit, without entirely bringing with them the actual reality. The representative Heimdal said, and I quote, the left-hand side will "detail on how volunteering should be". The representative of the Christian People's Party, Jorunn Gleditsch Lossius, said that the left-hand side has a completely different view of volunteering, that on the left-hand side, volunteering does not fit in, that everything is state. The Council of State said that the opposition disagreed with the principle of free will. And the representative Tuskedal said that the left-hand side would have system and instrumental control. This is far, far from reality, and I want to see where in this setting SV goes in order to regulate the voluntarity, as the representative Silje Hämdal stands on the pulpit of the Storting and claims that we do. It's a rough sign of reality. What, then, are the parties of government taking effective action to ensure that voluntary activity is free and independent? What concrete measures do they have? They have a pilot project, they have a pilot project for three years. It's fine, SV supports that pilot project, but if that's what's the big contradiction, if that's what makes the positioning parties seem to have a completely different view of volunteering than the left, then there's a little bit of content in all the formulations and slogans that so far have shaped this debate from the right. Last time from the previous speaker, there were doubts about the priorities of the left-hand side of the VAT compensation scheme. So now all the parties in the opposition have proposed more VAT compensation than the government has done in its budgets. So it's called the position sections not to give priority. Then I wonder, what about the government's budgets, where one uses even less? That must be the exact opposite of a priority. Our answer is also clear: we want increased free resources. We set the self-esteem of volunteering high, and not least we respond to the main demands of volunteering, namely to have a right-driven, full VAT compensation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e582	I think it's great of SV to take a lot of the noise for what we've spent a lot of time criticising the Center Party and the Workers' Party, because it's right that the representative says that SV is not necessarily in all the comments of the Center Party and the Workers' Party. So I see that here the opposition separates layers at important points, also in the fundamentals of volunteering. The opposition also distinguishes layers in the reality description that the representative of the Supreme Court rightly described earlier in the debate when it comes to the situation of premises. I am pleased that both the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the SV together are clear on this in the comments, when we say that we have to make sure that the premises are accessible and well organized for the voluntary activity that the premises should actually contain. It's both about ensuring that there is sufficient internet capacity, so that Hyperion's associates can operate their activities in the premises, about ensuring that the Corps has a place to be where you actually get an experience of how the music is to be heard, and then it's also about the fact that the premises have to be arranged for those who have different kinds of disabilities, so that they can actually get involved in volunteering on equal terms. I am also pleased that we together recognise the challenge of actually booking a room, booking a room, and that we encourage the government to join in and look at the digital tools, portals and apps that already exist, and to ensure that good arrangements are made in different places in Norway that ensure that children, young people and adults – regardless of the level of function – are able to participate on equal terms in volunteering, and that everyone has a place to be. To the representative Sem-Jacobsen, who said that the government parties are not listening to volunteering: I want to ask her to take note of the comments she herself has made in the vote, both when it comes to recognising the challenge of getting a bank account for children's and youth organisations, and when it comes to ensuring that where the absence limit is practiced differently, good arrangements must be made to recognise all organisations. In this context, the Committee and the positioning parties have heard a lot about the volunteers.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e593	I think it's right of me to try to clean up some of the number usage that has been performed on the pulpit today. Firstly, in the case of VAT compensation: yes, the representative Trettebergstuen is right that when the red-greens went off, the reduction in compensation was at the lowest under the red-greens, namely 30 pst. After that, we've never had as high a abbreviation as 30 pst. It's gone down, and it went down this year as well. So it's not right that this goes in the wrong direction. Under the bourgeois budgets, there has never been as high abbreviation as it was under the red-green. Then there's a debate about volunteering centres, where you don't believe that municipalities are going to give priority to volunteering centres. Do not feel that the two major rapporteur parties in this Chamber, the Labour Party and the Central Party, have some faith that their own rapporteur will give priority to volunteering centres if they have the power to do so. The difference is that this government and the civil, non-socialist budgets have almost doubled the grant to volunteer centres, which has led to an increase in the number of volunteer centres in recent years. It is also the case that municipalities that are not on the ROBEK list as much as they did under the red-green ones, are actually willing to give priority to volunteer centres. We see that delegating responsibility is a trick, because it's something that really needs to develop with local cultural life, it's the volunteer centres. In addition, the increase in LAM funds for sport, which is about having more inclusive sports teams, has doubled since 2013. We have established a separate grant scheme for inclusion in sport, of 18 million. kr, over the funds. We have removed the registration and annual fee for the voluntary register that the red-greens had. In order to reduce red tape, we have repealed the law on registration when collecting it. We have adopted exemptions from VAT for rescue and rescue vessels. We've taken a lot of steps in the right direction. This message shows in which direction we intend to go further, and we have shown that we are willing to prioritize money for this field, but also to delegate power, so that volunteering is governed closer to people, and we also have to make sure that we get simplifications in many areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e606	Norway is the world leader in volunteering. We're still going to be, and we're like big-time politicians who have the task of facilitating that. Voluntary work is about a lot. It's about those who come to the hospital and eat lunch with the elderly to create what you call the golden breakfast, the good conversation you can have with those who come from outside to the hospital and spread joy. It's about those who are in the sausage shop at football matches and hand out food to those who are there – for payment, of course, but they do it on a voluntary basis. It's about the conductor conducting the school corps. It's about the Red Cross – a big organization that has volunteers who contribute to help phones of different character. Yeah, it's small and big. It is incredibly important that volunteering is built from below, that the ideas come from below, that volunteering is not governed by state rule. The State shall facilitate. I am a little disappointed with the special proposal from SV, which goes in to confirm that the municipalities will have premises available. Then I want to tell you what my municipality of residence, Drammen, is doing. They advertise on their websites a new solution: Book local yourself, a new digital booking service for those who want to use the school as the arena. Here the municipality itself has come up with not only that you can use the school as a locality for activities, they have also made it easier to do so with their booking service. It is precisely that the municipalities themselves are able to find good and smart solutions, and I have no faith that fixing the regulations contributes to anything more. The municipalities have to take that responsibility, because we give it to them. I see that the representative Giske has drawn himself on the list of speakers. I'm glad, because I could very well imagine an explanation of what the remark that has been mentioned here before actually means: you want a policy that focuses on prevention much more strongly and also leaves it governing the policy of volunteering. I suppose I interpret this in such a way that voluntary policy should be a public health measure. I look forward to an explanation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e619	I am pleased with the question from Ørmen Johnsen about getting an explanation, because it did not work on the other government party representatives as if they needed any clarification. Here the fasitite was ready. Instead of talking about what we can do for the economic conditions of volunteering, one has hung up in a comment like, among other things. The representative of the Christian People's Party is simply mistaken. It says on page 4 in the setting that the Workers' Party and the Center Party want to prevent more in society. In the Christian People's Party program, it says: ‘Prevention is the best tool to combat crime’. And on the other hand, ‘The voluntary and non-profit sector is an important contribution to this work.’ It should not be unknown to the Christian People's Party to have such a social view that one wants to prevent instead of repairing. And then it says: ‘The commitment to volunteering is therefore an investment, probably one of the most profitable investments we can make. These members want a policy where we focus on prevention much more strongly, and leave it also governing our voluntary policy.’ So that's the perspective on prevention. When different representatives go up here and say that it is in the setting that prevention should be the driving force of voluntary policy, it is therefore a joke. It should be possible to have a slightly higher debate in Parliament than that. It's $15 million. when one youth is disabled instead of entering a working life. In the last few years, under Erna Solberg, the number of young people living almost doubled to 18 000. If we had reduced it by 1,000, it would have corresponded to a present value of 15 billion. kr. It's Norwegian Tipping's contribution to sports facilities for ten years. It costs $1 million to treat one with kidney failure. It can cost. When many more people get diabetes because of inactivity, and the number of dialysis patients has increased by 40 p.p., it costs society billions of dollars. If we cut the increase that has been in the last ten years, it would have been 400 million. kr per year. This corresponds to the entire increase in VAT compensation that we are asking for. Russ abuse, of which the Christian People's Party should be concerned, costs society 22 billion. kr. If we cut it by 5 pst, it would be worth a billion. Not wanting to turn up the small money that it is, and providing good framework conditions for volunteering – not to govern volunteering, but to save billions in other areas of society at the same time – is completely incomprehensible. It is totally incomprehensible that the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Right and the Advance Party allow the opposite view to permeate their policy of volunteering.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e652	There has been a lot of interesting in this debate, for example: how different representatives from the Christian People's Party speak so disdainfully about the left. Now at least they're well placed away from the center, I've understood. Even worse, I think it is, as the representative Geske points out, how to turn around and turn things around to get away from the legitimate criticism of lack of money in terms of VAT compensation. I have 3 minutes, so I'm going to use the opportunity to read this whole comment -- and then we can talk a little bit about the dessert level here. ‘The members of the Workers’ Party and the Centre’s Committee believe that there is a high potential in society to prevent more. We know that physical activity gives us better health and reduces disease, we know that social communities strengthen the quality of life and mental health, and we know that safe communities for children and young people strengthen the possibility of safe growth. All of this contributes to better space within the welfare state and welfare services. So volunteering is an investment, probably one of the most profitable investments we can make. These members want a policy where we focus on prevention much more strongly, and leave it also governing our voluntary policy.’ The word "our" jumped the committee leader, Örmen Johnsen, cheerfully as she quoted. In the Central Party and in the Workers' Party, we describe what we think is important in emphasising our policy of volunteering – not as it is preached with great gestures from this pulpit, that we will govern the volunteer, that it is not free enough. Sorry – I think it is low to be at this level in this debate. Another thing: it was said by the representative Pettersen that VAT compensation has increased so much more during this government in relation to, for example, in 2012. In 2012, there were, of course, several fewer applicants, just about. Nine hundred. I started my post by being excited about all the things that we thought were good in this message, and then I'm going from this room now – quite disappointed by some people in the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e668	The representative, Freddy André, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e673	I am pleased that the representative Örmen Johnsen addressed SV’s proposal to provide voluntary — and in particular children’s and young people’s — access to municipal premises, such as housing. Schools, because then we can talk about something other than the cramping accusations from the right-hand side that we've heard here now. And that's interesting, because what children's and youth's freedom points to as one of the greatest challenges in their everyday lives to get their volunteer and work to go around is that they are denied access around the country, and there are great differences in how to communicate with, for example. schools around. Therefore, children’s and young people’s freedom also says that national leadership is needed for all the great ways that municipalities can do this around – which Drammen is sure to do in a good way – that one can, among other things. need a common platform. That's what SV suggests — giving the young volunteer access. It's not over-control.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e680	It is a pity that the representative, Sem-Jacobsen, is disappointed with the debate, but I must say that we must rightly point out some of the accusations against the government parties. The representative, Giske, claims that we will only discuss single words in the communication, and the representative, Mr Trettebergstuen, that we will only take the debate on the debate. But when we have an overall debate on Norwegian voluntary policy, it would have been strange if we were not to discuss the basic view of how to facilitate voluntary activity and the basic view of Norwegian voluntarity. With these statements, you are also totally bobbing over all the other concrete actions and areas that I mentioned in my opening speech. The opposition, with honest exceptions from SV, on premises, makes this debate appear as if it were only about a VAT compensation scheme. Yes, the VAT compensation scheme is important. That's also why we're increasing it. It is a fact that the VAT compensation scheme has been reinforced by 784 million. kr since 2013 and in 2019 is SEK 1.6 billion. kr. Yes, it's true, as the representative Sem-Jacobsen says, that there were fewer applicants before, but it's a good thing that there are more applicants now, while people get a greater share of VAT compensated. It is also gratifying and a fact that this government in the notification commits itself to an escalating plan up to SEK 1.8 billion. kr. It's historically loud. The government parties are really able to listen to volunteering, and we do that when we say in an annotation form: ‘The majority therefore urge the government to follow up on developments and, where appropriate, review the level of VAT compensation if the search rate is much higher than expected.’ But taking the volunteer seriously also means that we have to recognise all the other areas in addition to the VAT compensation system that are important. It's about a good simplification reform, which I would like to discuss more, about providing for a digitisation reform that plays on the team and on the premises of volunteering, and it's ultimately about the fundamentals of volunteering.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e692	I have to say that after this debate, I am even more pleased to have the Culture Committee with me to Bergen and Os next week. Because that's where we have a perfect example. We have a rapporteur in Us, named Terje Søviknes, who comes from the Progress Party, who is to show us voluntary work at his best in Kommune-Norway. They can enjoy it! We're going to the Luranetunet. There we're going to see how volunteering, along with the elderly, creates commitment. Now there have been many accusations from the pulpit about unfair facts, tricking with numbers, etc., so I think we'll take a summary. Did the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV fully finance a VAT compensation? The answer is no. Are there more applicants today, with the Party of Advancement, Right, Left and Christian Party in government? Yes. Have we increased VAT compensation? Yes. Do you want to keep increasing it? Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e700	The representative Jorunn Gleditsch Lossius has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e705	No party recognizes volunteering and its positive effects in society more than the Christian People's Party, but there is a difference between mentioning volunteering as a contributor and writing that prevention should be a governing force for volunteering policy. It's black on white. Is it such that the Center Party and the Workers' Party are no longer behind their own comments? I also call for the Workers' Party's thoughts on what it will mean for volunteering when they propose to put children and young people's leisure activities into school with paid instructors and trainers.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e710	This debate is almost absurd. Here we have a debate about volunteering, which has great support in Norwegian society and from all parties – even though the Christian People's Party is trying to make itself the only party and the party that cares the most. That's wrong. What's interesting, and the thing is, is that the position has tried with every means not to take responsibility for the priorities they don't do in the field of culture and for volunteering. It's very interesting political to notice that turnaround, I would say, as the Christian People's Party's representatives here have presented as a center party, because now they sound like the most blue-blue liberalists in the government. Culture and volunteering had merited a more honest debate, a more proper debate, on what is at the heart of the matter. At the heart of the matter is that the Workers' Party has different priorities – some with the Centre Party and SV – than the government parties. That the government parties do not or will not discuss it properly, but try to cheat and circumvent the debate, I find it regrettable. The volunteer message has a lot of good points. Voluntary action should be given greater respect from this room in the debate we have had.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e719	The representative Trond Giske has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e724	No, it doesn't say what Lossius says the second time. I think there's a bid somewhere about how to present such things. It says that these members want a policy – in general, in society – where we focus on prevention much more strongly and let it also govern our policy of volunteering. The way it's going to be governing is that we think it's much better to invest in volunteering than that society is going to take the repair afterwards. The reasoning of the Government Parties is as follows: Here comes a sports battle. We've had a lot of fun doing more sports, but there's no room in the hall, can we get some money to do that? No, unfortunately, we can't afford that. If we are allowed to do sports and get more, you save more money on the health budget than you would spend building sports facilities. We can't think of that way, because it'll be interfering with the freedom of volunteering. But we're just doing what we want. We can't think of it this way, we're taking the repair, because otherwise we're breaking the principle of volunteering. It's a completely absurd logic.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e753	I think I opened this debate by saying that there was a lot in the message we agreed on, and I also feel that it really is. That's a lot we agree on. At least parts of this debate have been affected. Therefore, I find it quite strange that the representative Henriksen, instead of responding to the challenges of the debate from the positioning parties, chooses to accuse the positioning parties of having an unfair debate from the pulpit. Among the things I pointed out in my previous posts, there is a little bit artificial in that the opposition says that the message is totally out of concrete action, when they themselves are unable to promote any specific action. What is contained in the message must be quite good, since they are unable to come up with so much new information. I repeat: Of the only seven proposals on which the Labour Party is a co-sponsor, four are about participation processes on which the Council of State has been clearly committed. One of them is about the VAT compensation scheme. Another is about game advertising and work against foreign gaming companies, which this government has announced that they have started working on, so the proposal is already taken care of. The last one is about earmarking more money for volunteering. I also think that the voluntary service deserves a good and fair debate. That's why I also acknowledge a lot of what we're together about, but it must be the law of the Parliament to point out the places where we disagree. I really hope, for example. when it comes to the discussion of creating facilities, that there is something the Workers' Party and the Centre Party will look at as something more than just putting in more money, that they might also look at the comments they did not make in the round. Maybe they can look at them one more time and make sure that people actually get a place to be to run their activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e764	The representative Tage Pettersen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e769	This is going to be weird. Here we are accused of having a debate on the debate, here we are accused of having an unprofessional debate. In my first post, I mentioned the importance and importance of a free and independent voluntary sector. I mentioned the role of the municipalities. I mentioned the location and importance of volunteering centres. I mentioned red tape and simplification. I mentioned access to premises. I mentioned VAT compensation and the inclusion of children from low-income families. These are obviously important elements of a good volunteer message that we have addressed in the debate today. At the top of it all, we are accused of quote fraud even when we read aloud from the comments in the message. The opposition must take responsibility on its own for writing comments which can be interpreted so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e774	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e790	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that up to five lines of reply are given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e799	I would like to begin by thanking the Cooperation Committee on this matter, which is a proposal from four representatives of the Workers' Party to include the ILO core conventions in the Human Rights Act. The ILO’s eight core conventions contain fundamental human rights and represent a minimum of rights to be respected in the workplace. We note that the question of which conventions should be incorporated into the Human Rights Act was carefully assessed in the law's preparatory work and that it was concluded that these conventions were not suitable for incorporation into the human rights law. In this work, when it was done by the government many years ago, a number of factors were considered. Among other things, it looked at the rights which should apply to all people irrespective of age, gender and ethnicity, and on the other hand conventions concerning a special group or a limited group of persons. At that time, the Ministry and the government proposed to limit incorporation to the first category, i.e. the rights that apply to all – universally. The ILO core conventions were considered to be conventions for special groups of persons and thus restricted rights. This is the principle of the majority of the Committee's opinion that only the general conventions should be incorporated into the human rights law. That is why the Committee's attitude is to reject this proposal. I would also like to refer to what the Minister for Justice and Immigration has replied to us in a letter – it was probably the previous minister who sent that letter – where it was stressed that the interests that the ILO’s core conventions are intended to protect are also protected in the Constitution and in a number of other conventions that we have ratified. From this point of view, the Committee recommends that this proposal for a representative be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e816	Thank you to the Committee on Justice, and thank you to the President-in-Office for the work on the matter. So I strongly regret the fact that the Workers' Party and SV are standing alone on a minority proposal where we ask the government to submit proposals to include the ILO core conventions in the Human Rights Act. I'm sorry, but I'm not really very surprised. The majority rely on the State Council's reply letter, which sees the matter primarily as a legal issue. Reference is made to the preparatory work and the treatment of the human rights law that took place in the 1990s. But the world doesn't always change for the better, unfortunately, and especially not for Norwegian work. It is not accidental that the proposal has been promoted by the Labour and Social Group and also by the Labour Party's top management. It is a clear signal that we are concerned about the developments we see in social dumping, the crime of working life and the lack of respect for acquired professional rights. The right-wing approach to the Working Environment Act with increased access to more temporaryity is incorporated into this image. In parts of the world of work, we see fixed-term employment replaced by hire and work contracts. Therefore, the decision taken by the majority of the population a year ago was an important decision. With effect from 1 January 2019, recruitment agencies may no longer employ people in so-called permanent posts without remuneration between missions. It was an important victory for Norwegian trade union movement, a matter for which they have fought for a long time. But one of the first things we saw was that parts of the manning industry tried to bypass the new provisions through part-time contracts completely down in positions of 5 and 10 pst. Prime Minister Erna Solberg, on his side, called the collapse decision his greatest political defeat ever. It was therefore good that we made the decision before the Christian People's Party chose to join the right parties. In January of this year we celebrated the 100th anniversary of the ILO. An important requirement of LO in this respect was precisely the requirement that the ILO core conventions should be incorporated into the Human Rights Act. As LO leader Hans-Christian Gabrielsen expressed it: «Economic rights and free trade shall not undermine our right to set up collective agreements or lay down the terms and conditions of remuneration and employment applicable.» I'm afraid it's not a matter of course. Ask only the former employees of Elkopen Distribution. Free trade union movement did it earlier this year. In an interview with them, the former club manager says: «I had worked one year for Elkopen Distribution when we organized ourselves in the Transport Workers' Association. We employees felt that nothing was in the care. Many of us made $153.50 per hour. In the company's system, it was true that I received 157 kroner per hour, but nothing was ever done about it. To date, I have not been given a work contract, and there were many of us. The chiefs thought that our pay cuts were a contract. We could work for both one and two hours at night, but we were not always paid overtime. We did not have lunch break either. We drove pretty much from the start of the job to the end without any proper break." So – after organizing, demanding a collective agreement, striked and won, ended in 2018 with dismissal and lawsuits for Marius Kristiansen and his colleagues in Elkopen Distribution. Their jobs were transferred to an external company. And they're not the only ones. I would also like to ask the employees of Traftec, who strike one year before the requirement for a collective agreement was crowned with victory. On the way, they also had to deal with a regular strike breaker. And who's Traftec? Yeah, it's a company that used to be. performed major works for the State Road Service. So not even the public is able to keep its path clean, despite the fact that diffi has developed both guides and other materials for use in public procurement and tendering processes, where they just emphasize the importance of ethical procurement, with direct reference to the ILO’s core conventions. This is part of the back door because the Labour Party leader, Jonas Gahr Støre, in his speech to the LO Congress, stated that the ILO conventions must enter the Human Rights Act, precisely because it sends a strong signal. Central workers’ rights are as important as other human rights, such as freedom of expression and voting rights. It has always been part of the basis of Norwegian labour movement. This position must also be reflected in Norwegian law and in practice in Norwegian courts. 2019 is also LO's year of trustees. Taking ILO conventions into the law on human rights would be a clear recognition from the national assembly of the country of the important job of trustees making every day for a serious working life. Then I will address the proposal that we have with SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e843	The representative Lise Christoffersen has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e848	I would like to thank the Workers' Party for addressing this matter. There is an error from the Central Party in the configuration. The centre party should have supported proposal No. 1, from the Working Party and SV, and the note from the Working Party and SV at the bottom on page 2 and from SV on page 3. The ILO’s eight core conventions contain fundamental human rights and represent a minimum of rights to be respected in the workplace. Norway has ratified all eight core conventions and is obliged to comply with the core conventions. In Ot.prp. No 3 for 1998–99, submitted on 9 October 1998, the Ministry proposed that only the conventions applicable to all people be incorporated into the Human Rights Act. That's how it became unanimous in the process of mass destruction. The eight ILO Conventions to which this matter applies set international standards for working life as regards freedom of organisation, collective bargaining, forced labour, child labour and discrimination. For the Central Party collective bargaining is a key issue in this matter. For the Centre Party, collective bargaining and respect for the outcome achieved by the social partners in a collective bargaining agreement must take precedence, for example, over the EEA Agreement. The Central Party supports the inclusion of the eight core conventions in the Human Rights Act because they will give ILO core conventions a stronger formal legal position in Norwegian law. It will give a signal effect both nationally and internationally. However, the proposal of the Labour Party does not resolve the growing conflicts between Norway and Norwegian workers. Here is the problem of the EEA Agreement – an agreement that has led to a less well-organised working life. The Labour Party's leadership, headed by Mr. Støre and Vice-Chairman Tajik in the head, has seriously oversold the proposal in his public presentation. In this context, the specific concerns of workers and employers working for a well-organised working life are the consequences of Article 120 of the EEA Agreement. That's what it says. ‘Unless otherwise provided for in this Agreement and in particular in Protocols 41 and 43, the provisions of this Agreement shall take precedence over the provisions of existing bilateral or multilateral agreements obliging the European Economic Community, on the one hand, and one or more EFTA States, on the other, in so far as the same matters are governed by this Agreement.’;» Protocols 41 and 43 concern Austria and do not concern Norway. ILO conventions are therefore not exempted by this 120 clause of the EEA Agreement. The central party considers that the core ILO Conventions must take precedence in the event of a conflict with the provisions of the EEA Agreement. It is therefore necessary to repeal Article 120 of the EEA Agreement in the opinion of the Centre Party. The right-hand party and the Progressive Party state in its comitology on Article 120 of the EEA Agreement that a ‘excessive understanding of the provision’ is taken into account, i.e. that Article 120 of the EEA Agreement precedes the ILO Convention. This claim must be justified by supporting evidence, otherwise it has no force. The Workers' Party's proposal in this case refers to the political task of preventing unprofessionalism, social dumping and labour crime from getting a foothold in Norwegian working life. In the opinion of the Centre Party, this has already been given a strong foothold. The provisions of the EEA Agreement on free movement of workers gave rise to a shock of supply in the East and have created major problems. The centre party will replace free labour immigration with regulated labour immigration and is very strong in that Norwegian collective agreements are not to be superseded by the EEA Agreement, as has already been the case. What is particularly interesting in the wording is that the representatives of the Workers' Party do not comment and decide on the relationship between the core ILO Conventions and Article 120 of the EEA Agreement. At the LO Congress in 2017, the following decision was taken regarding the action programme: ‘ILO’s core conventions are incorporated into the Human Rights Act and, in the event of conflict, prevail over other legislation, including laws with equivalent primacy provisions. Norwegian collective bargaining agreements and Norwegian labour law must prevail over EU rules.’ The centre party consistently follows up this point in the action programme of the LO Congress in 2017. It is necessary to get serious in the workplace, it provides long-termity, it will reduce activity – and it is wise.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e886	We are at a time – both in Norway and in Europe – when we have an increasingly brutal working life. A lot of what we're going to discuss today is about seeing if there's any grip to be able to do anything about it. We are in a situation of considerable unprofessionalism, labour hiring, social dumping and a significant amount of more and more precarious jobs, forced part-time work, unionism, etc. This development is also very serious in Europe, where the lack of security causes people to become very, very alarming, and it also contributes to social unrest. It is very difficult in such a situation, in such a demanding working life, to mobilise people in the world into important joint projects, such as: sustainable conversion. It's a development we don't want in Norway. We believe that we need to look for solutions to ensure better legal protection around Norwegian working life. The grip on making ILO’s core conventions part of Norwegian human rights law can just be such an arrangement. Then ILO's fundamental rights are lifted. They will be able to be used more actively as a source of justice if such matters arise, and that of course gives a very clear signal in a completely different way that this is now Norwegian law. In this case, the Government Parties to the Right and the Advance Party state that this is not necessary because they believe Norway is already sufficiently obliged by the ILO Conventions. We are bound by the ILO conventions, they say, it is not necessary to legalise or bind them more closely against Norwegian law. They believe that there will be no practical difference. I disagree. By enshrining them into a human rights law, they will be more likely to be used as a source of justice. I also believe that the way to describe this problem is to sub-communicate or take little responsibility for a development in Norwegian working life where we still see a lack of security. I believe that the government parties should also participate in a search to strengthen legal protection in Norwegian working life. When the Right Party and the Advance Party reject this, it may be that it is about their usual care for employers and business owners – perhaps a kind of idea that legalising these conditions more would be to prevent employers from manipulating the situation in the labour market that we have described. I think they're also wrong about that. We must have such respect for Norwegian employers and company owners that they too are well aware that there is a good and safe legal situation in Norwegian working life. I am quite convinced that a serious employer in Norway will be very satisfied with legal protection for workers who make them feel safer. They will then have a fundamental pre-requisite for more innovation and better quality in what is created – and not least less sick leave. I am absolutely convinced that the care of employers that the right-wing parties here may show is misunderstood. A good legal protection for workers will definitely also be a good thing for owners. The representative then points to a challenge related to Article 120 of the EEA Agreement. I share his concern about it. So we have an article in the EEA Agreement that defines that the EEA Agreement takes precedence over all Norwegian legislation. If it had been implemented that ILO conventions had entered into force as part of Norwegian human rights legislation, we would have had two laws, both of which had been defined to have a kind of primacy before all Norwegian legislation. Then we had a significant challenge. Like Lundtegen, I believe that we have a significant challenge that we have an article in the EEA Agreement that sets a significant framework for how Norwegian case law should be. We have to definitely also discuss whether something has to be done about it. But in this context, it is absolutely essential for us to get that signal and to put in place the ILO core conventions as part of Norwegian legislation. It will strengthen workers and employers, and it will create a basic security and a good framework for a safe Norwegian employment policy and a good Norwegian economy in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e905	The Christian People's Party is committed to workers' security and rights. We showed that, among other things. for the treatment of Prop. 73 L for 2017-2018 on changes in the Working Environment Act, which were on permanent and temporary employment and hiring-in from temporary employment agencies. In the case, several restrictions were proposed and adopted on access to rentals, as it was clear that in the construction industry in the Oslo area, in particular, there was a large proportion of rentals that broke with the general rule on fixed employment and several basic prerequisites of the Working Environment Act. The new legislation entered into force on 1 January 2019. The Christian People's Party wants an orderly working life and believes this is a basic plank in the Norwegian model. Through tripartite cooperation, we have managed to create a world-class working life in many areas, with good pay and working conditions and HMS. That doesn't mean that everything is perfect, and sometimes we have to react. We did that before the summer when the changes were adopted. Renting may facilitate temporary needs for special expertise and address bottlenecks in production. Activities can adapt the workforce more flexibly and avoid being able to hold skills that they are not able to use, even if the employer wants to have the most permanent position possible. I got a good example of this myself last week when we visited Kværner at Stord and saw how the oil industry depends on rental to work. For workers, temporary employment may in several cases serve as a gateway to working life. In other cases, however, temporary additions may give the employee a weaker incentive to learn and the employer may weaken the incentive to pursue training than by fixed additions. This, together with less experience and continuity, can have a negative impact on productivity. This means that we have to have regulation that makes renting take place in order and does not replace fixed employment. We believe that we have achieved the legislative changes that have been made. The representative Lise Christoffersen mentioned examples of fractures, and I agree that this is not the way we can have it. But it is not certain that the offences mean that the laws are wrong. Otherwise, I share the views expressed by the representative on the importance of organisation and employee organisations. It is a crucial part of tripartite cooperation. The Christian People's Party therefore rejects the opposition's wish for a ban on rental because it would weaken Norwegian value creation and the flexibility of the companies. We have made some necessary efforts to keep the use of rental and temporary services at a sustainable level and to strengthen the level of organisation, so that we avoid negative effects on wages and employment relations. This is an important step that balances the need for security with the need for flexibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e920	The ILO core conventions contain fundamental human rights and represent a minimum of rights to be respected in the workplace. Norway has ratified all eight conventions and is fully committed to complying with them, but I would like to add that Norwegian work environment legislation and regulations go largely further and further in safeguarding workers’ rights – and that is good. As a reason for incorporating the core conventions, the Workers' Party continues to present the government's attack on the Working Environment Act. This attack is said to be the embellishment of temporary employment. Then I would like to mention that there are now fewer temporary employees than under the previous government. We also see that the use of temporary employment has fallen, and now is lower than under the previous government. Unemployment has not been so low in ten years, and the proportion working part-time is falling. The main picture of Norwegian working life is good. It is drawn from this pulpit, a picture of an increasingly brutal working life, but according to the National Institute for Safety and Health at Work, Norway is at the forefront of working environment standards. The SSB’s work life survey shows that nine out of ten persons employed are satisfied with the job, and that fewer and fewer people are exposed to physical stress and risk at work. Then it becomes a little strange that this government is suspected of not taking into account working life and workers' rights. The fact that Norwegian working life is mainly good, safe and decent does not mean that we do not find examples of unacceptable employment and working life crime, but we do not solve the law with more laws, but with better implementation of those we have. I would like to remind you that Norwegian business also wants a safe, good and tidy working life with a level playing field for all. Most business owners in Norway have children in the same nursery as their employees, buy milk in the same local store, and they want competitive conditions, the removal of taxes on wealth and the possibility of hiring labour. Norwegian companies are going bankrupt if they are going to compete with unprofessional companies that are exploiting their employees. So essentially, we have a well-regulated, good and safe working life in Norway. There's no reason for the opposition or SV's representative to blackmail what we actually have.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e935	The ILO’s eight core conventions provide for minimum rights to be respected in the workplace. Norway has ratified all eight conventions and is therefore obliged to comply with them. This applies irrespective of how they were implemented in Norwegian law. The Conventions have been implemented in Norwegian law in the event of legal harmonisation or transformation. For example, in the context of the ratification of the ILO Convention on the Prohibition of and Immediate Measures to Eliminate the Worst Forms of Child Labour in 2000, changes were made to the Criminal Code and to the Civil Protection Act. It is also the case that the presumption principle contributes to ensuring that Norwegian law is interpreted and applied in line with Norway’s international obligations, including ILO conventions. I would also like to stress that the interests that ILO conventions are intended to protect are already protected by the Constitution and by human rights conventions that have already been incorporated into the Human Rights Act. Freedom of organisation is, for example, protected by Article 101 of the Constitution, Article 11, ECHR Article 11, UN Convention on Civil and Political Rights Article 22 and the UN Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights Article 8 respectively. It is therefore difficult to see that this proposal to incorporate ILO core conventions into the Human Rights Act will lead to changes in Norwegian law. I would also like to point out that the question of which international conventions should be incorporated into the Human Rights Act was thoroughly assessed in the preliminary work of the Human Rights Act. In NOW 1993:18, the Human Rights Committee made assessments of the ILO Conventions on Freedom of Association and the Combating of Forced Labour. For various reasons, the Conventions were not considered suitable for incorporation into the Human Rights Act. In the proposal for the Law of Human Rights, the Ministry stated that it is only the overarching human rights conventions, such as the European Convention on Human Rights and the United Nations Convention on Civil and Political Rights, which should be incorporated into the Law of Human Rights, while the more specific conventions should be implemented in Norwegian law by other means. The Justice Committee also stated in its position on the human rights law that it is not appropriate to incorporate all human rights conventions into the law. In my view, it is a principle that should be maintained. In this respect, I would like to point out that the Stortinget recently decided not to follow up a proposal for a representative to incorporate the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities into the Human Rights Act. I therefore support the minority in the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs that ILO conventions should not be incorporated into the human rights law. These are important conventions aimed at guaranteeing workers central rights, but the conventions have already been sufficiently implemented in Norwegian law. Finally, I would like to stress that the government is taking the fight against crime at work very seriously. Crime at work has a major impact on workers, businesses and society as a whole. In cooperation with the social partners, the government launched in February 2019 a revised strategy against the crime of working life, and the government will fight against the crime of working life with targeted measures, increased control efforts and enhanced cooperation between the authorities and the social partners.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e952	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e958	LO is the country's largest employee organisation in both the private and public sectors, with nearly one million members, half of the country's trade-union organisation. But not only that, they represent one of the country's strongest environments of competence in labour law. When the LO believes that the inclusion of the core conventions will be an important tool in the fight for decent working life, one could expect that their views were at least discussed in the Council's letter of reply to the Storting, but that is not the case. Does that mean that it is completely uninteresting to the government what LO believes in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e963	What matters to this government is that we follow up on the content of the ILO Conventions. They are incorporated in such a way that Norwegian law is in force. I don't think we're going to get into a situation where we downgrade what's current Norwegian law, to be such that either it's a human right, or it's not that important. These are important rights for workers who are already part of Norwegian law. It is part of Norwegian law, and they are to be followed in exactly the same way as other important laws.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e968	I thank you for your answer. It's actually the first time I've heard used as an argument that incorporating the ILO conventions leads to a downgrading of Norwegian law. It was an interesting perspective, but I'll pursue it a little bit. On the occasion of the 100th anniversary of the ILO, LO ordered a legal inquiry from the European Law Centre at the Faculty of Law at the University of Oslo. They conclude: ‘Incorporating the ILO’s core conventions into the Human Rights Act will result in a stronger formal legal position in Norwegian law by allowing them to be directly applicable as a law. [[...]] When the Conventions are incorporated in preference to other Norwegian legislation, the position becomes particularly strong.» Does the Council of State think that even the lawyers at the university are wrong, or is it that the government does not really want the ILO conventions to actually get a stronger position in Norwegian law?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e978	I think the representative misunderstood what I said, because I didn't say that when I introduced the ILO conventions as human rights Norwegians are downgraded, but I warn against believing that if you don't introduce everything as a human right, it isn't protected strongly enough. Norwegian rules, whether they are human rights or Norwegian law, are to be followed, and we also have a set of rules in Norway to follow up the ILO conventions. There's no excuse not to follow the ILO conventions because it's not in the Human Rights Act. That's what was my point.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e983	Then I thank you for that clarification and basically have only one question left. So strong professional environments like LO and the University of Oslo say something different than what the Council of State says. They certainly believe that it is important to incorporate the ILO core conventions into the Human Rights Act, but then I will try to angle a question from a slightly different angle. What problems do the Council of State think it would have created for Norway and Norwegian working life to follow the clear advice of these professional environments and to incorporate the ILO core conventions into the Human Rights Act? Would that lead to any problems at all?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e988	The government has had that basic attitude, and it also has the majority in the United Kingdom that it is the general human rights conventions, i.e. the human rights laws, that are to be introduced as human rights – I mentioned a few examples of it from the interlocutory chair in place – while the special conventions are not introduced into the human rights law. It is so clear that if ILO's core conventions were to be introduced, a number of other conventions had to be introduced into the human rights law. We believe it is important to stress that Norwegian law is equally relevant to those out there, and it should be complied with in exactly the same way, whether it is incorporated into the Law of Human Rights or is part of Norwegian law. Norwegian law shall be observed regardless of whether or not it is provided for in the Law of Human Rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e993	The centre party supports the inclusion of the eight core conventions in the Human Rights Act, for the labour market covers almost all. One of the eight core conventions concerns collective bargaining, and for the Central Party, respect for negotiations and the outcome of negotiations is particularly central. We are then in the ILO Conventions versus Article 120 of the EEA Agreement. When we talk about a conflict here, the government parties say that there is «an overly comprehensive understanding of the provision». My question is – for this claim it is necessary to demonstrate: How will the Council of State justify our overly understanding of the provision that Article 120 of the EEA Agreement overrides ILO conventions?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1000	Article 120 does not state that the EEA Agreement precedes all other international agreements concluded by Norway. Article 120 only states that the EEA Agreement precedes agreements already in existence when the EEA Agreement was concluded between the EU - or the former EEC - as a Community on the one hand and one or more EFTA countries on the other. I just don't agree with the understanding that the Center Party uses.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1005	The question of the relationship between the EEA Agreement and Norway’s ILO obligations has been raised, not least through the port worker case, the judgment in the so-called Holship case, and one of the concrete things that was said by the Supreme Court in that case, is that regardless of how ILO Convention No. 137, which governs the preferential rights of registered port workers, must be understood by virtue of Section 2 of the EEA Act, under Article 31 of the EEA Agreement. Does the Council of State disagree with that understanding – when a party doubts whether the EEA Agreement takes precedence over Norway’s ILO obligations?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1012	There's a lot of things that are interesting about the Holship case. This was a matter where some port workers wanted a boycott, and the question was whether that boycott was contrary to Norwegian law or not. This was a boycott to secure himself a pre-emptive right to work. The opinion was expressed by the Supreme Court, among others. in the case that the reasons behind ILO Convention No. 137 to provide port workers with work and pay arrangements can be fulfilled in ways other than a right of priority for a group of workers. It is also the case that, in the same case, the Supreme Court stated that fundamental rights, including the right to collective bargaining and collective action, are part of EEA law. Furthermore, the Supreme Court stated that the protection of workers may be an overriding public interest which may justify interference with the right of establishment.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1021	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1029	It is a very good proposal that is up to debate today. Human rights are one of the most important things we're discussing, and in Norway we're pretty much proud of how we handle things on this topic, and we're a transitional country. It should therefore be uncontroversial to propose that a step further be taken – that the ILO core conventions, which apply to fundamental rights in working life, should be incorporated into the human rights law. But it's obviously not. Right and the Progress Party will write in a comment on the case: ‘These members consider the inclusion of those rights in the Human Rights Act to be relevant in practice only to the level of the rights to which they shall lie and to the relevance of the definition of the legal status.’ Yes, exactly: This shows just how low the Right and the Advance parts want to recognize these privileges. This is about eight completely legitimate internationally recognized human rights laws in the field of working life, which the Right Party and the Progress Party believe are not as important as other human rights laws. Just by including these conventions, we would have sent a clear signal on where we stand on the issue of the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining. As one of the most successful countries in the world in terms of working life, precisely because of and because of how we ourselves have valued these rights, we have the opportunity to give way to other nations looking up Norway and Norwegian working life. But that's what you choose not to do today, obviously against SV's voices. This I think is a pity. I get a feeling that the Storting today sends out a clear signal that we are ourselves enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1039	The issue of including the core conventions of the ILO in the Human Rights Act is an important issue that is supported by the Centre Party. It will be to strengthen the legal position of these conventions in Norway, and it will be an important political signal. At the same time, however, you do not solve the basic issues we face in the Norwegian labour market today regarding the over-management of Norwegian labour market by the EEA Agreement and the threat to acquired rights. It has looked through the so-called Holship judgment in the case of port workers. And to the Council of State and the exchange of lines instead: it was precisely this question that was assessed in the Holship judgment, and the ILO Convention No. 137 sets out what the Council of State argues against, namely that it should be a priority for registered port workers – not that they should have a monopoly but that they should have a preferential right. That was what the struggle was about, and that was where the majority in the Supreme Court made a decision against the port workers, which was a hard blow for the port workers and for the organized working life in Norway. So the Council of State says that one, through the EEA Agreement – and the EU – recognises both the right to strike and the right to boycott. Yes, that is right, but at the same time a number of EU judges have shown that those rights do not apply in full, that it is the European Court of Justice that assesses the rights against the free movement of goods and services, capital and labour, such as: in the Viking Line case, which was about using strike as an instrument, and as one has done in other judges in the EU context, where it has also been about whether one can use boycott as an instrument, whether it is legitimate within the EU rules. So it's not the Council of State or the Norwegian People's Party that last and last sits with the power of those questions. No, there are bureaucrats and judges in the EU system who decide whether there is a need for free movement or whether there is a need for employee rights to win in each case. And what one sees in ever greater contexts is that it's the workers who have to bend their necks, and that's the consideration of free flow that gets through. Therefore, there is a need to make changes in Norway’s relationship with the EU through the EEA Agreement. What we are doing today is an important decision, but it does not solve the basic problems for Norwegian workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1050	First, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Workers' Party, in the event of an incursion, is in the majority comment on page 2 of the vote. We are not behind this comment, and I would therefore like to draw attention to it in the minutes of the matter. In Norway, we have a wide range of values and interests with other European countries, and we need to find common solutions to cross-border challenges. This requires binding cooperation, as the proposers stress. It is important for the Labour Party that Norway supports the follow-up to the legislative work carried out in the ILO. The ILO’s eight core conventions contain fundamental human rights, which all countries in Europe and large parts of the world have committed themselves to comply with. They together represent a minimum of rights respected in the labour market. The Labour Party believes that by incorporating the ILO core conventions into the Human Rights Act, the ILO's fundamental rights will be lifted and given a completely new status, in line with the main conventions we have in Norwegian law. Legislation as we propose will have great real and legal significance. Norwegian courts and other actors will draw on and place a decisive emphasis on the rules and practices resulting from the ILO’s core conventions. Through our proposal, the conventions in question will have a much stronger formal legal position in Norwegian law than they have today, by allowing them to be applied directly as Norwegian law. When the Conventions are incorporated in preference to other Norwegian legislation, the position becomes particularly strong. In addition, in our view, it will give a strong signal effect both nationally and internationally. By including the ILO core conventions into the Human Rights Act, we will show that the fundamental rights of working life are in line with the rights of the already incorporated human rights conventions. The fact that the working party has to drag the right side after the hair on work questions has become a habit. That the right-wing parties today do not vote for our proposal is disappointing, but not surprising. That the Right Party and the Advance Party believe the proposal is misunderstood, says more about the Right Party and the Advance Party than we do. There should have been more done by the right-wing government to ensure the Norwegian working life model and actively ensure that Norwegian wage and working conditions are enforced and respected in Norwegian workplaces. It is a political task to contribute to a serious work life based on a high level of organisation, permanent full-time jobs and to maintain a working life in which Norwegian wage and working conditions are not undermined. At the same time, the Labour Party believes that Norway should strengthen respect for the fundamental principles of working life by including the ILO core conventions in the Human Rights Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1067	Clean and safe conditions in working life may be the most crucial thing for ordinary people to have power and authority in their own lives, so it's a core if you're concerned that most people should be able to do both in their everyday lives and participate in society otherwise. It is true that much of this is good in Norway. When you say that this is already in place in Norway, you should probably speak for the vote to include it, and not against it, because in that case it could not do any harm. That the government doesn't think it's making any change, now it's going to stand for them. Some of us believe that it will strengthen these provisions. In any case, it should be possible to agree that it should be decided to incorporate these core conventions into the human rights law. I heard the representative Nordby Lunde was up talking about Norwegian working life. I am a little surprised when I hear representatives of the government parties who obviously do not know what is going on in parts of Norwegian working life, where there is a very unprofessional competition that exists, where there are quite serious issues, and where the control of this is low. But that's not essentially what this is about today. It's about both how to organise Norwegian working life, and what's part of the big picture, that in the international agreements we have that regulate trade and economic interests, there are legal arrangements and sanctions. In terms of what regulates employment internationally, i.e. the ILO, there is nothing. That's what the name is called ‘shaming and blaming’. You are not obliged in the same way as you are, for example. to the law of the EEA, which has judicial functions related to it, or the WTO, which has financial penalties relating thereto. This is not just SV and I who are concerned about, I have also heard the management in, among other things. The WTO is very concerned about this, because in all conflicts it is the interests of workers and ordinary people who do not have mechanisms that can mean that those who have signed on to this and commit themselves to it do not risk anything by breaking it. This is not true in Norway, because, after all, we have a good code of conduct, an up-to-date opposition that fits this and a well-organised working life. But this would have been a very important signal for Norway to send out, that we would implement this in our overall human rights law.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1080	It is clear to everyone who hears this debate that this has no involvement whatsoever with the government parties. They're not interested in the matter, they've obviously not been involved in the investigation that LO's been designing, so they have as their only mission today to try to find counter-arguments to avoid doing this. And the Council of State, which in its short seas already seems to have a relatively good overview, and which has an excellent office around it, cannot believe what he himself is saying: that the ILO nuclear conventions have been implemented in Norwegian law in such a way that all the considerations have been taken care of, in line with what is otherwise in Norwegian law. That's not right. This is the case – and we have seen a number of examples of this – that when there is a conflict between different provisions of the law, there is a need to apply so-called collision principles, where there are different stages in the weighting of laws. LO's report, designed by Finn Arnesen and Hilde Ellingsen, states that if ILO's core conventions are incorporated into the Human Rights Act, conflicting issues will be explicitly regulated by the Human Rights Act § 3. In case of a conflict between e.g.: The obligations of the EEA Agreement and the Human Rights Act cannot be applied to both primacy provisions if this is implemented by the Human Rights Act. Today, it is possible to give priority to the EEA Agreement. However, if it had been incorporated into the Human Rights Act, it would not have been as obvious that the EEA agreement had direct primacy. In such a conflict, it is rarely found by the Supreme Court to be contradictory. Usually, the courts seek to eliminate potential conflicts by means of a harmonised interpretation and extend far to avoid conflict. The report also notes that the potential for conflicts between the ILO Conventions – if they are now enshrined in the Human Rights Act – and EEA law is very limited. We believe that by bringing this into the law on human rights, there will be a higher ranking of the provisions of the ILO’s core conventions, thereby ensuring that more consideration can be given to the provisions of the Convention when assessing such matters as: The Holship judgment is an example of. Unfortunately, the government and the majority do not want to address this matter. That's very regrettable.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1093	To the last post, from the representative of Grande, he leaves an impression that by implementing, i.e. including, the ILO core conventions in the Human Rights Act, we will be able to have a different outcome on specific issues related to the EEA Agreement. He specifically mentioned the Holship judgment. It would be nice if the representative of Grande looked a little more specifically at how he considers it to be contrary to Article 120 of the EEA Agreement. Is it, then, to understand that in Norway, one can only establish new primacy provisions in national law that will undermine the obligations we have under the EEA Agreement? Article 120 of the EEA Agreement clearly states that priority is given to the laws of the EU, implemented by Norway through the EEA Agreement. There is no exception for Norwegian human rights laws in the case of ILO conventions implemented by Norway. It is also quite interesting that the EU itself argues that they recognise the ILO core conventions. However, in the follow-up to the core conventions, the European Court of Justice on a case-by-case basis balances employee rights with the free movement of goods, services, capital and labour. After all, it is precisely in those considerations, which you have considered in the European Court of Justice on a case-by-case basis, that employee interests have lost and the interests of free movement have gained. We have seen both in the Laval case and in the Viking Line case that the ability of the trade union movement to use collective means of fighting has been restricted by the European Court of Justice. It will not be changed whether Norway implements the ILO core conventions in the Human Rights Act. What was specifically assessed in the Holship judgment was not the core conventions to such an extent, it was the ILO Convention No. 137, which regulates the preferential rights of port workers, in addition to two other ILO Conventions – Convention No. 87 and Nos 98 – dealing with organisational rights and collective bargaining. That question will not be resolved with what Stortinget is doing today. That's why throwing blues in people's eyes to give port workers false hopes by believing that what's happening today will give them a different situation for their future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1098	I want to clarify a further error in the setting, from the centre party. For page 2, first column, second paragraph, out of which the centre lot is to expire. The representative of Sigbjørn Gülsvik has examined in depth the relationship between Article 120 of the EEA Agreement and the core ILO Conventions. Our assessment is that the EEA Agreement overrides. It overrides ILO provisions. It also overrides Norwegian working life if there is a conflict. What's interesting is that the representative of Heidi Nordby Lunde was very central to the Norwegian business community wanting to be safe. I would like to add some comments to that – because I fully agree with that. Norwegian business, i.e. the employer's side, is at least as interested in order of business and at least as interested in the core conventions as the employee's side – well to mark the serious part of the employer's page, as the representative Heidi Nordby Lunde was so fond of when she said that the kids for employers go to the same kindergartens as the young workers, and that employers and employees buy milk in the same shops. It's just this social community, where one meets one another eye to eye all the time, which means one has to have decency from both sides, which is also part of the core of the question we're discussing here. Both the representative Heidi Nordby Lunde and I were at Fafo's annual conference yesterday and heard there a glittering presentation of this question in a conversation between Jonas Bals from LO and Jon Sandnes from the National Association of Construction Industry in the NHO. It was a glittering presentation of fixed-term employment, which gives long-termity and leads to increased productivity in working life. This is a central question that the Center Party has really taken inward, that this is what we have to fight for now. We must therefore fight for the adoption of the Workers' Party's proposal and follow-up in other contexts in order to ensure that that culture, these framework conditions, is the leader. Those who do not follow the framework conditions — well, they are ‘bad guys’ in the workplace. But it is the Storting that determines what is lawful, and what is illegal, and it must be followed up by the Labour Inspectorate at last.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1109	I understand that Gülsvik is frustrated when what he wants to be an EEA debate is not. And the example he mentioned is quite inaccurate, because in the current judgment in the Holship case, it was not the preference of the port workers who were challenged. A wide range of EU countries have such a preference, and Norway also has the opportunity to implement it if you want, either through collective agreements or by ensuring it under the law. You have the full opportunity to do that. What was problematized, and what the judgment is about, is whether or not boikot can be used as a means of pushing through a collective bargaining agreement for employees of another company. The conclusion of the Supreme Court was that there is no reason for this. But the last words are not said in this case either, as the LO has filed a complaint with the European Court of Human Rights. The claim that EEA law deprives Norway of the possibility of a right of priority for port workers is incorrect. It is simply Norwegian politicians and today’s government that have neglected to ensure that you can have a right of preference for port workers. We have to take responsibility for that – and not try to blame for the fact that it is EEA law that prevents us from doing so. The relationship between the EEA obligations and whether such a preference is absolute has been well answered by the Minister of Justice to the question from Lundtigen, so I do not need to repeat it. It's not that it's absolute. It is – as I have pointed out, and as the report drawn up by the LO also points out – that the Supreme Court very often, if there is a conflict, has to assess in each case, and consider which provisions should be given priority, if any, or should be given more weight. It's precisely in that light that it's important that we get the ILO's core conventions into the Human Rights Act. In this way, the regulation of any issues of conflict will be enshrined in Section 3 of the Human Rights Act and the content of the core conventions will be given a clearer emphasis. That is why we are promoting the proposal. We wish that the bulk of the population had been with us to contribute to – I do not say that this is the final solution – one step in the right direction to ensure a clean working life in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1120	The representative Sigbjørn Gülsvik has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1125	Relationship with ILO Convention No. 137 and the preference of registered port workers, were specifically assessed by the Supreme Court in the Holship judgment. As I quoted in the line-up with the Council of State instead, it became among other things. formulated by the majority of the Supreme Court: ‘Despite how ILO Convention No. 137 Article 3 shall be understood as being subject to the right of establishment under Article 31 of the EEA Agreement under Section 2 of the EEA Act.’;» The Supreme Court thus marks a clear and clear advantage for EU rules. Then it is quite right that the Norwegian Supreme Court makes assessments in each case, and makes different assessments in different cases. However, it is not the case in Norway that it is the Supreme Court that has the last word. No, within the EEA system, EU rules and the interpretations of the EU can also trample judgment on the Supreme Court, as we have seen in particular. travel, diet and lodging. There's a verdict from the Supreme Court set aside. The government has bent its neck, the majority of collective bargaining has bent its neck — and provided for reduced employee rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1137	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1153	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that up to five lines of reply are given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1162	The disposal law is the law governing the purchase and sale of used dwellings in Norway. A joint committee agrees that we must have a law to ensure a safe trade in housing. The purchase and sale of dwellings will for many be the largest economic transaction they carry out during their lifetime. Therefore, it is essential that the law that regulates this ensures a safe trade in housing with good flow of information and fewer conflicts. We therefore believe it is right to increase the competence of the tariff industry, so that the quality of the state of the housing industry improves. The majority has a great responsibility for taking decisions with all the facts and arguments on the table, and the government is responsible for ensuring that the legislative proposals are well prepared and thoroughly illuminated from different approaches. When a case is dealt with in Stortinget, it will often be that different stakeholder organisations will have different views because some arguments are more important than others. The parties will often vote differently because we have different views on the consequences of the government's proposals. That's the policy. However, we have rarely seen professional objections to a bill as strongly as to the government's proposal for changes to the law on disposal. We have met with objections of a force that we rarely see. A more popular approach would be to say that the bill has been slaughtered, with heavy legal objections. The background for changes to the disposal law dates back several years. But some of the proposals that are called the most radical are poorly investigated and have been pushed through by the government in a short time. Once the government has carried out a process that many question and the professional objections during the hearing are so strong, the legitimacy of the law may be impaired. For the Labour Party, therefore, we have had no choice but to propose that the bill be sent back to the government with notice of better investigation. The right-wing parties are trying to make a political point that the Workers' Party has called for a rapid revision of the Law on Disposal, but that we have now probably gone away from this because we want to send the bill back to the government. Yes, it is true that the Workers' Party is impatient in putting in place legislation for a safer housing trade, but we might have to – even if it should be unnecessary – clarify that the audit should also be carried out in a professionally good way. The government says that the bill will lead to fewer conflicts. In our view and in the view of several hearing bodies, it is by no means probable from the government that there will actually be the consequences of the bill. On the contrary, several points point out that the changes may lead to several conflicts. The government parties are probably not going to listen to the Workers' Party, and if the government does not listen to the Workers' Party's warnings on this matter, they should at least listen to their own people who strongly warn against the amendment. A former State Secretary for the Advancement Party in the Ministry of Justice questions whether the Stortinget has received sufficient information to take an informed decision. He believes that the consequence of the bill can quickly become more lawsuits and conflicts – contrary to government assumptions. His conclusion is that more thorough investigations are needed. Or as former town councillor of Right in Oslo, Stian Berger Røsland, tweeted: ‘When the amendment of the law of disposal is adopted today in Stortinget, the government should be nominated at the law enforcement award for the most process-driven amendment in 2019:)’. To put it another way: several cases will end up in the legal system. The core of this case is that the government has provided a poorly justified proposal for changes to the law. Then there is nothing else to do but send it back. The rationale for the legislative changes is a desire for fewer conflicts in housing trade. Many have raised their voices and pointed out that the proposals will lead to more conflicts. These arguments close the eyes of the government. We want a better law in this field. The problem is that what the government has provided is not sound to make decisions. We want a proposal that could make it safer to buy a home, but unfortunately the government has not put it on the table. We as legislators must be absolutely sure that the changes made do not give more uncertainty and conflict about the purchase and sale of the dwelling. The Labour Party proposes that the bill be sent back to the government, that a better job be done to look at the consequences of the NOK 10 000 limit in the absence, and that we set down a legislative committee that looks at the changes in the law on disposal in connection with the ownership law and the housing law. We want to make a proper assessment of whether, if any, insurance schemes can contribute to less conflict in residential transactions, and that the claims in the proposition on the relationship of power between the buyer and the seller are better documented. With this I recommend the setting of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1191	Homes are for most of the most expensive and most important things we buy for ourselves through life. Despite that, today's legislation is unbalanced, and it does not provide incentives to get all the facts about the dwelling on the table before the trade is carried out. The result is that the level of conflict in residential trade has been high for more than 20 years. For 12 years we've had investigations and discussions about different ways we can bring the level of conflict down. In 2009, the Committee on Tariffs and Trade concluded its investigation into how to safeguard consumer rights and increase access to information in the retail sector. After that time we have repeatedly been told that the level of conflict in the housing trade is too high, among other things. through reports from the Consumer Council. Several actors in the housing trade have pointed it out. Among them we find the Norwegian Association of Real Estate Agents, the Landsförbund, the Consumer Council and the Consumer Authority, and there are many of the actors who largely support the proposal that the Stortinget is going to be discussing today. There are also several parties that have promoted matters and proposals in Stortinget and asked for progress. The result we have today, with this matter. The case complex has been investigated since 2007 and has been through four consultations. Now there is no need for further investigations, but more action. A dwelling is usually sold between two equivalent consumers, usually with professional intermediaries. Just because housing trade is about large values and trade takes place between two consumers, where none of them usually have in-depth construction skills, we need a balanced regulatory framework that takes care of the consumer and makes the professionals responsible. We don't have it like that today. Today, in practice, the buyer has a large part of the risk even though it is the seller who is closest to knowing the object and almost to discover what is wrong. The valuers have no formal competence requirements, and how state reports are used varies across the country. Professionals usually waive responsibility when the dispute is a fact. The Government's objective is to strengthen consumer rights in the trading of dwellings and to strengthen the responsibility of professional operators. That's exactly what we're doing with this law change. Competences are required of valuers and the design of the status report is formalised. The responsibility for describing the condition of the dwelling is placed with the professional. There will no longer be the possibility of making unspecified reservations even if there is still the possibility of making specified reservations. The point is that the seller should not have any incentives to not tell me what it is that you are selling. What actually constitutes a lack of housing is legalised in line with what is already the current practice. The dwelling has a defect if it is not in accordance with what the buyer could expect from the visible condition of the dwelling, age and purchase price. Completely visible defects, defects that the seller has informed or made reservations about, will therefore not be a defect. The purchaser is given a clearer obligation to interfere with the information provided, because it should not be possible to come afterwards and apologize for not having seen or having not understood what has been done. If there is a defect first, the purchaser must cover the excess of NOK 10000. At the hearing in Stortinget, it was suggested that the proportion should be higher and that it should be lower. That's why we think we've found a good balance. However, we will ask the government to follow closely developments in the future and possibly come back to the Storting with proposals to change the threshold if necessary. We've also listened to new spatial deviations input. On our proposal, the area deviation will be a defect if it is due to the incorrect measurement of the valuer, if it exceeds 2 pst. of the area of the dwelling and at least 1 m 2. Calculation of the set-aside price for land deviations shall be carried out in accordance with the applicable legislation. This proposal will make it safer both to buy and sell housing because the information in the housing trade is improving. The question is well investigated, well discussed, and we have done so for over 12 years. The message from the industry is clear: the level of conflict is too high, it's time we acted. With that, I take up the proposal from the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1221	The representative Mari Holm Lønseth has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1226	Over the years, several of the party’s major representatives have met with actors who have expressed doubts about the scope of housing conflicts. I have also had meetings with people who, even with a housing insurance policy, have suffered great losses and have been in conflict for years before the final closure has come into place. The purchase and sale of a dwelling is something that the few often do. We're not experts, and it's about a terrible amount of money. Most of us experience a long life as both buyer and seller, and we need a law that helps both parties. It is a problem that the buyer carries a significant risk of defects in the purchase situation – despite the fact that it is the seller who is most often closest to knowing the object best. The amendment seeks to legislate that the buyer is to be considered to be aware of conditions clearly described in a condition report or other relevant sales documentation. The proposal appears to be a natural consequence of the seller being given extended responsibility and invited to submit state reports. The seller who owns the dwelling and knows the condition of the dwelling relatively well is closest to describing the condition of the dwelling. But the seller is also a consumer and rarely has detailed building skills. Therefore, we need to increase the use of state reports. In recent years, their use has become more widespread. However, there is no requirement for the design of either the state report or the competence and qualifications of building experts. This has to get into place. The freedom to sell the dwelling ‘as it is’ is removed. At the same time, it is made clear that there is access to specified reservations about the dwelling. There is a defect if the property is not in accordance with what the purchaser could expect from, among other things. the type, age and visible condition of the property. It is underlined that the purchaser buys a used dwelling and that this has a bearing on what expectations the purchaser may have. This must be seen in the context of the purchaser's obligation to investigate, as stated in the law. An excess of NOK 10000 is the amount that the purchaser himself has to cover after it has been shown that there is a defect in the dwelling. Several of the hearing bodies had views on this aspect. Some pointed out that it should be linked to the size of the purchase price, some saying that the proportion should be higher, while some pointed out that it should not be an excess. We've assessed the input from the different actors and concluded that these cracks in all directions, without anyone's eyesight being particularly different. The law provides for an authorisation to amend the amount in the regulation. We therefore encourage the government to monitor developments closely and to assess continuously the need for adjustments. In the course of the hearing, it was made known by several bodies that land measurement cannot always be carried out in an equally accurate manner. For various reasons, certain dwellings are demanding to be accurately measured. Several agencies proposed the introduction of a sloping stock for land deviations, which has been addressed by the government parties. We therefore propose the introduction of a two-pst sloping zone. the area of the dwelling, but nevertheless such that the deviation must be 1 m 2. In the proposal, it is proposed to introduce a flat-rate flat-rate measurement rule for the discount on land deviations. Several actors are critical of this proposal. The Party considers that there will be a simpler and more predictable solution whereby the measurement of price reductions in the case of land deviations continues to follow the integrated measurement rules applicable in general to price reductions. The Party supports the proposal to authorise regulatory requirements for the condition reports and to establish an authorisation system for building experts in order to ensure adequate professional competence. The government must assess the need for any transitional arrangements. The state report should cover those parts of the dwelling which are recurrent in disputes and which may lead to the most expensive damage but which are at the same time relatively cheap to investigate. On the other hand, it is less important that the condition report describes the conditions the buyer can observe on the display himself. The requirements must be high enough for the report to have the quality necessary to serve its purpose. At the same time, the requirements should not be set so high that the price of the report is too high or access to qualified experts is reduced. It is high time that the industry was held responsible for the job they were paid to do. The working party is made up of poets from actors who can lose on a better piece of legislation, while government parties stand firm on the part of consumers. With this, we've put down the feet of unprofessional operators in the real estate industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1254	The total turnover of the Norwegian housing market in 2018 was approximately 340 billion. NOK, and more than 90000 properties were traded. It is a significant turnover, and often it is buyers and sellers who are not professionally managed. A proposal for a new disposal law has now been put on the table, and it has been a work that has taken disproportionately long. For the Central Party, it has been a goal to try to ensure that we get the most uniform legislation possible, and that we are able to agree as much as possible, precisely on the basis of the size of the market and that this law would have served to have the widest possible majority. These include: In view of the fact that we have considered that the government should have investigated some of the issues raised as criticism by several parties during the hearing. It is unlikely that the Committee has had a hearing which has received so clear feedback of a different nature on what you want. This indicates that one has gone a little too fast in the interview, but there is no doubt that the matter in general has taken too long. The centre party has come to the conclusion that one should look at, and get an investigation, part of the concrete points. The centre party therefore wants to vote in favour of it and believes that the government would have done well to try to get a bill that could be agreed on as much as possible. According to Property Norway, we have over 2.4 million properties in this country, and throughout the year, a lot of them change owners. There is a big transaction – for us here in the hall, and for people who every day enter into transactions throughout the country. It is therefore the professionalisation of the tariff industry, and of the parts supporting purchasers and home vendors throughout the country, a measure behind a total increase. But you have different assessments of how to proceed. Nevertheless, the Central Party wishes to express support for the fact that the industry is being professionalised, but at the same time emphasises that there must be opportunities to actually obtain good fare services throughout the country, even when you are now going in order to tighten up both the status reports and not least the authorisation system. With regard to the concrete proposals submitted by the Central Party in the case – and when our primary position on sending the case back to a proper investigation falls, we have proposed a different limit in the case of defects and deficiencies – the so-called 10 000-kronor limit, which has been partly disputed. It would have been useful, even for the law to last over time, if one had been able to agree that it should be regulated, for example. through G, which we have proposed. There is a level that is regulated as the price changes, and it would have allowed the law to stand for longer periods of time. It's a shame the government parties couldn't be on that point. In addition, we have looked at the way the market works around, and we have come to the conclusion that it would be appropriate that it is actually the actual dwelling on which we are based when we are to determine possible price reductions due to shortages. It would have been most appropriate to provide a price discount that had reflected the market that the dwelling was worth, based on the assumptions known through the fare reports that were available, and through the information provided by the broker and seller. It is an explicit goal to get a more balanced relationship between the buyer and the seller, and it gives the centre party its connection to. With that, I'll take up the proposal of the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1269	Then the representative Willfred Nordlund addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1274	It's absolutely right that this is an important law that is very important to many people, because it's about what we buy in life that costs us the most. In SV's view, it would have been desirable to put in place a piece of legislation that was very much in agreement around. I hear that representatives from the government argue that there have been very many rounds before the bill was promoted – and that has been – but the problem is that the uncertainties and the big disagreement that lie there have not been resolved. I was surprised by the strong reactions, and to some extent very glaring views, which came from heavy players in this matter when we had the hearing. With a little bit of a hard heart, SV has had to conclude that we want to send this law back because the uncertainty is too great, and because, in our view, one goes from one ditch to the other, namely that in today's situation the seller has too much responsibility, and in the new situation the seller will have too much responsibility. The core of what we've been doing all along is getting good-quality state reports and building experts doing the state reports. It's not today. That it should be so, SV and the government agree. But SV believes that we have to follow the minority in the tariff law committee, which concluded that it is not enough with the type of incentives that the government imposes, but that it has to be regulated. If you do, you should, of course, at the same time be exempted from housing where the information needs are limited, for example: dwellings to be demolished, a shed, etc. The tariff law committee said, which was very important arguments for the legalisation of the state report, that the market and the actors themselves have not been able to adequately manage the information needs, and that it will still be voluntary to have these state reports, even though there is an incentive in this law. I heard the representative from the Progress Party were up and said that it is limited what such a tariff report should be. If it is too thorough, one must have demolished the floor and opened the wall, and that it becomes both expensive and extensive and certainly harmful. That argument is okay, but not the argument that if we make too high demands, it might be too few. We have to put in place a necessary number of people who are building-fast and who have this kind of competence before the new law comes into force. We don't know how the government intends to do that because we don't know the regulations and the rules attached to it. It could mean putting this list in a place that makes the risk get big anyway. SV's last main argument is linked to the need for different types of insurance schemes. This has been requested, in particular by the Consumer Protection Authority. It is important because many different insurance schemes are offered in the rarest circumstances, and it is very difficult for consumers to inform themselves in that market. It is appropriate to clarify in advance what kind of insurance schemes are to be provided for both consumers, both purchaser and seller, and not least what kind of insurance schemes are to be provided by the policy holders, in order to be sure that there are no major disagreements and entirely unforeseen circumstances which could mean very large financial settlements, in most cases probably for the seller. When you remove this 'as-is' provision, you put a very high responsibility – there will be a trust relationship between the seller and the person who is the fare person. We believe that this is unclear in the law as it is now, and there is a need for investigations into the insurance systems that need to be put in place if there is to be safer housing trade. Then I take up the SV's suggestion.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1293	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1299	Confident Norwegian consumers today can spend longer to buy a new TV or a drying drum than a user of his life’s large investment, a new home. Not least, information on these minor investments is very available. If there is a defect or defect in the products, it is usually trouble-free to get new goods. Buying a dwelling involves a significantly higher economic risk. It's the biggest investment in most people's lives –however, a person might risk buying a home that is really a very little known about, with hidden shortcomings and lack of information or simply with errors in the fare report. The new disposal law provides future home buyers with more information about the product they are considering buying. The seller can no longer hide behind the house being sold as it is. Now we know that one can document how the dwelling actually is. It surprises me that almost half of the elected people in this room say they disagree with it. I've been sitting on Stortinget long enough to know how the opposition's role can be. That one should always stand on the opposite side of the government in matters like this, which strikes out particularly bad, is amazing. Most of us have read about home buyers who have more or less bought the cats in the bag, and who after several rounds in the courtroom can't do any more. The dream of living became a true nightmare. The Consumer Council may indicate that conflicts related to the purchase of dwellings have escalated since the adoption of the current disposal law in 1993. The law turned out to favor the seller, and the buyer often remained as the losing party. First-time buyers are incredibly little trained in the rounds they're going through. They meet people who run this daily, who they expect to give them honest information. They may do so, but with a price report, which has been very deficient in several cases, the purchaser is doomed to lose. The government regulates this in the new law adopted here today – a balance between the seller and the buyer. Consumer organisations such as the Consumer Council, the Huseierne Landsförbund and the Consumer Authority support the government's proposal. These organisations have dealt with and responded to thousands of requests from dubious buyers over the years. Get to know better than them what challenges come up for a buyer. It is therefore strange to observe that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party know so much better than those who work on the problem every day. When consumer organisations want a change in the law, one can really wonder what the motive for these parties is. The answer may be that you have painted yourself up in a corner, or that someone thinks this is wrong in any case – I don't know. What I know, however, is that in this case, with this law, the government is on the consumer's side. With all the negative attention that has been, and too many housing dreams that broke, I believe that the law will strengthen consumer rights. It feels like the only right side to stand on. As I said, the left is not in the committee, and we will support the proposal of the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1312	In spring 2017, the deposit representatives Hans Olav Syversen, Line Henriette Hämdal, Hans Fredrik Grövan, Kjell Ingolf Ropstad and Geir Sigbjørn Toskedal promoted a proposal for a representative on measures to strengthen consumer rights in dealing with housing. Several of the proposals were adopted and the present proposal responds to the basic issues from then on. I am pleased that the majority have taken the consumer perspective in this proposition. The whole reason for this cleaning was that the housing buyers were not well cared for and were left with a black cover. I am more than surprised that the Workers' Party does not take this perspective. I think the address paper at the manager's office summarized it all well here by day. They give their full support to the fact that we are now removing the principle of selling a property as it is and summarizing brilliantly: ‘A cheap used car of NOK 2000 may be sold ‘as it is’. However, in the case of housing sales of several million kroner, the buyer should not bear a disproportionate share of the risk." It is important to bear in mind that the changes in the laws of the government parties ensure a majority, and to suggest that more stringent requirements are imposed on valuers, among others. through an authorisation system, as the industry itself has requested. A new regulation on minimum status reports shall be in place as planned before the entry into force of the amendment. It is a logical goal that this whole process should lead to the dissemination of a true impression of the state of the dwelling, and that the level of prices thus becomes. It will not be illegal to sell a dwelling with faults and defects, but it will be better for the buyer when you know what you get, and not get stone animals surprises around the next turn. Another issue that has arisen in dealing with this matter is swirling — so that no de minimis deviations and errors should lead to more control than the general public. Of course, a balance has been how large such a slingshot can be before there is a loophole that cynically can be exploited. Fortunately, the majority of the actors are decent people on both sides of the table, but the legislator must take into account that there are also cynical speculators in this market. We have therefore landed at a limit of NOK 10 000, which the purchaser must cover himself. This was one of many recordings at the hearing. We stated that NOK 10 000 was a good limit, but that the legal text opens up that the amount can be changed in the regulation, assuming that the government is following developments and making regulatory changes both in terms of changes in the housing market and in terms of cost. One of the things we've learned through the treatment is that measuring is not a simple science. In order to avoid many unnecessary conflicts, we therefore introduce an aberration of up to 2 pst. and 1 m 2 as a slingshot which makes it impossible to invoke as a defect. To the best of our ability, we have tried to combine folklore with ramparts that secure the buyer of housing, and let me quote good, old Ivar Aasen's poem which has been quoted from this pulpit repeatedly: "No one can do to Layer after all; It is now old and will be so. I think it's going to be all right. aa help it, as it needs most."
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1346	Purchases of dwellings are too many of the most important transactions to be made here in life. If housing problems arise, they may have disastrous consequences for one, both economic and personal. This applies to both the buyer and the seller. Therefore, it has been a central objective of the government's housing strategy to provide a framework for the purchase and sale of dwellings that works as well and without squeezing as possible. The Bill Stortinget will now take a decision, which has been in force since the Committee on Tariffs was set up 12 years ago. These are changes in the law on disposal requested by both the industry, the consumer side and the Stortinget. Everyone seems to agree that the level of conflict in housing trade is too high, and the figures also speak for themselves. In 2018, 876 cases were registered under the Law of Disposal in the District Courts. It's closer to 6 pst. of all matters received. I am therefore satisfied today that we can refer to a bill that could provide better information prior to the sale of the dwelling, and this will hopefully lead to fewer conflicts afterwards and a safer housing trade for both the buyer and the seller. An important element of the proposal is that the seller should no longer be able to take ‘as is’ reservations when the dwelling is sold to the consumer/buyer. Today, the general practical rule is that the seller disclaims the responsibility for all the hidden defects and defects. The amendment of the law means that you go back to the normal law, which is that the seller is responsible for deviations from the contract and that the purchaser must be able to expect. When the seller can no longer waive much of the liability, it will give the seller a strong incentive to provide all the information to reveal weaknesses in the dwelling. The proposal invited the seller to obtain a condition report. With more information on the table prior to the sale of housing, it will be less to argue about afterwards. At the same time, consideration for the seller has been taken into account through the possibility of taking out a change of ownership insurance. When general reservations no longer become the general rule of practice, the usual assessment of deficiencies will have a greater practical impact. We have therefore proposed to legislate the so-called abstract concept of defect in the disposal law, and it is clarified that the dwelling has a defect when it is in a worse condition than the buyer could expect from the age, type and visible condition of the dwelling. This can give the purchaser more realistic expectations of the dwelling. Especially when buying a used home, the purchaser cannot expect everything to be perfect. Another measure to adjust the buyer’s expectations is the proposal for a minimum threshold for deficiency requirements. Although the property has a defect, the purchaser has to cover the costs of this up to NOK 10 000. This is a strong and clear signal that not all minor errors and deviations are a defect in the law. More realistic expectations of the buyer are likely to lead to a more correct decision and less disappointment, which in turn may help to reduce the level of conflict. While the seller is encouraged to obtain a thorough state report and provide information, it is also important to ensure that the sales documents are actually read by the purchaser. We have therefore proposed to legislate that the buyer should be considered to be aware of the conditions clearly described in the condition report, so that the purchaser cannot rely on these reservations that are missing. In connection with this provision, we have also proposed an authorisation to regulate the requirements for state reports and the building experts to prepare them. It is a central objective of the bill that the buyer should not only get more information, but also get better information. In the end, I would like to say that there have been thorough consultation processes. And then it's always like this when you're going to present a new law, and especially in the property law segment, that there's going to be disagreements. It also has a little to do with the interests of those who disagree. However, we believe that this bill benefits consumers, and that it is safer to buy a dwelling in Norway. That, after all, is an important objective for the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1363	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1368	The Association of Advocates points out that the draft law involves a dramatic change in the legal framework in the field of the Law on Disposal. The Association of Advocates further writes that, for reasons of sound procedure and democracy, they recommend that the bill be returned to the Department for further investigation. The Association of Lawyers therefore believes that the government in this case violates basic administrative practices and that democratic processes have not been well taken into account. My question to the Council of State is then: Why did the government have so little time that the Council of State could not take the time to send the bill to the hearing?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1375	There have been several hearings in this case, and the lawyer's input came at the committee hearing, as I understand it. It's not just the Law Association, it's also, among other things. persons from BI who have come to believe that these are radical changes. It's a little strange that it's going to be radical changes to go back to what's really the starting point for buying and selling in Norway. This is a change in the law that makes you go back to normal and relate to the contracts. Here you will have the opportunity from the seller to describe the quality of this property, and you will have the opportunity from the buyer to get information about this property, which the seller has today all sorts of incentives to withhold. That's the challenge of today's law, and we're doing something about it here.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1380	The government parties make a political point in the vote that the Workers' Party has called for a rapid revision of the Law on Disposal, but that we have now abandoned this because we want to send the bill back to the government. Rarely have we seen such strong professional objections to a revision of a bill in the municipal committee, and many have pointed out the hopelessness that the government has had a flawed anchoring of and recording rounds in connection with this bill. Does the Council of State believe that when the Labour Party in the Grand Chamber expresses impatience in legal work, then should the government break good administrative practices and promote a legislative proposal that has not been consulted?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1385	As I said, this case has been quite thoroughly prepared, and it is a work that has been in progress since 2012. In fact, in 2009 it was already a tariff committee that made a good deal of work. In November 2017, the legislative proposal was sent on a new limited consultation round with a deadline of 15 January. It was added that the NOU had previously been sent to the hearing. So I believe that this matter has been heard quite many times. It was also invited to a separate hearing where the actors were given the opportunity to make their recordings.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1390	The government is otherwise concerned with simplifying, making it easier both legal and bureaucratic. In this case, we feel that the government is very determined that we should have a NOK amount in a law. Otherwise, the government has been pleased to be able to use different amounts of regulation, which are regulated annually by means of government budgets. What is the reason why the government in this context does not see the value of investing in, for example, an automatic amount of G, versus having a fixed amount of money in the law, which will require the Storting to do the law again in a short time?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1395	There is no reason to change the law, because in this law a mandate is given to the ministry in the form of a regulation to fix and change that crown amount as the krona rises. So there's no need to change the law to adjust that amount.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1400	It's not exactly a simplification when you choose to regulate the amount in the form of a regulation. You could have regulated yourself by saying that, for example. followed a certain amount of G. But I'm recording that the Council of State has a great need to send out more regulations on a regular basis, and it's interesting to notice. Furthermore, I want to problemate this with stencil value, to which the government's original proposition was added, when determining e.g. price reductions in the case of housing shortages. Doesn't the Council see that there would be an inequality around the country and an inequality between similar properties, if you didn't base what the property was traded for?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1408	Now it's like I'm dealing with the bill that's now here. It is not that it becomes more bureaucratic because you have this in the form of regulations. I think it's pretty important to the consumer to set a pretty clear crown amount instead of having something that would be called 0.8 or 0.9 G. I do not know if there would have been sufficient information for the consumer who is going to interfere with this law.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1415	SV is very concerned that in these cases both the buyer and the seller are consumers. There are no professional sellers either. Therefore, we are very concerned that thorough and comprehensible state reports should be made, which should be prepared by competent building experts, and that they should reveal what is reasonably wrong before the dwelling is offered for sale. If it is not in place, the Consumer Protection Authority writes, it is believed that the change will lead to more disputes. The question then arises: What requirements will be imposed on these building experts, and when, if necessary, will the government be able to have this legislation in place? Because I assume that these rules won't come into force until all of this is in order.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1420	It is not as Andersen, the representative, says: the rules should not come into force until a regulation is in place that regulates both how to draw up these state reports and what kind of requirements you should have for them. And so it's like if you're going to use these state reports, they're going to be drawn up according to the regulation that you want to draw up for them. It is important to ensure that good standards are available on how to prepare these state reports, because this will be the most important information base for the purchaser – but also for the seller. Because if the seller is described as a quality and has the defects that may be on his home, and if it is described, it will not be a defect that the purchaser can make known to the seller. And it's a little different from what it's like today, where you often get into a fight because the buyer has a little unrealistic expectations of what a used home should be like.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1425	That's the line change. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1432	One might suspect that the Minister of Justice had not read the proposal on valuation, which at least the Central Party has proposed in this case. The ministry and the government have been concerned that one should have a very low valuation, and 0.8 or 0.9 G, on which the Council of State was involved, is at least far from the low value determination that has otherwise been involved. But what I was going to say was that the central party is happy that the government parties have been responsive to look at another delimitation in how to treat the area deviation, that one has gone beyond zero tolerance for area deviation. There have been strong protests against it from the industry, and the Central Party agrees with what has been included in the minority's proposals in that context and will support it. Furthermore, this law makes some improvements in the way in which the purchase and sale of the dwelling occurs, even though the centre party believes that if we had had a proper consultation round, it would have been possible to reach a total agreement. We have therefore stated that we will subsidiaryly support the law when our primary amendments fall.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1441	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1457	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1473	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1482	I want to thank Red for keeping us focused on the manning industry. It is an important debate that must be kept alive. There is an important debate, which ensures public education, awareness raising and the return of a culture of permanent employment in the enterprises to have their own professionals. In this case, the Committee disagrees after the first line. That is why there are no comments from the rapporteur on the matter. The positions of the centre party are expressed in notes where the centre party is included. The centre party does not agree with the proposals of the Red Party. We do not agree with a bill to ban the recruitment industry in Norwegian working life. We believe that the manning industry has a role to play in covering vicariates, and they can also have a role in providing labour. Nor does the central party agree that a special rule for the use of manning companies in the Eastern region, according to Sections 14 to 12 of the Working Environment Act, for the problems in construction and construction in the Eastern region, is not significantly different from the problems we have in other parts of the country. [[2]] The most important thing for the Centre Party now is that we are working to ensure that the Labour Inspectorate will have legal support to check that the changes to the Labour Environment Act that apply from 1 January 2019 are followed up. That it is checked and, where appropriate, punished in an ordinary manner is the task of the Labour Inspectorate. We have been informed that the government will return to Stortinget with the matter, and it is important that it does so as soon as possible. With effect from 1 January 2019, it is clear that temporary workers – who, in the view of the Centre Party, should change the name of temporary workers – should have permanent employment with pay between jobs, so that employees have a foreseeable working time, and thus pay to a pre-determined extent before more time and overtime, thus providing predictability of income each month. In my view, 5-20 % contracts are contrary to the Storting decision. The centre party is therefore in favour of clarifying that § 14-12 is to be used only under the Working Environment Act § 14-9. [[1]] [[2f]] We are opposed to recruitment agencies becoming training companies. We're also going to go in order that there's a real temporary needs that apply. I'm addressing those proposals where the Senter Party is co-sponsored.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1499	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1504	The Labour Party wants a safe and fair working life, with all the permanent jobs and a living wage. Unfortunately, developments in the labour market today are going in the wrong direction in many areas. We have received signals and reports from the construction industry in particular, but also from various other industries and from different parts of the country that rents are spreading in more and more areas, rents where cheap labour is being used – mostly foreign – and which is reversing fixed employment and Norwegian pay and working conditions. That was the reason why the trade union movement gathered outside the Storting in the prayer that politicians listen and see what is going on in Norwegian working life. The government parties ignored the warnings, but the majority of the population – it was before the Christian People's Party entered the government and out of Norwegian working life – trumped through significant tightening of the rental legislation. We had good hope that the manning industry and the labour market would follow the new provisions, which meant that renting should only be possible for enterprises bound by national collective bargaining agreements, with a union with the right to set-aside, and that agreement should be made with the board of trustees on renting. But immediately, when the new legislation came into force on 1 January of this year, we saw that both new businesses and new contract provisions, which were conscious attempts to get away from the law, appeared, contracts of 5 pst. – some places all the way down to 3 pst. – where you are obliged to deal with one employer and are not allowed to take on the duties of others. It can be seen that establishments with the only business idea to win tenders find loopholes in the legislation to define that they have a temporary and unforeseen need for labour. It's a development in the world of work that we don't want at all. It's a conscious strategy to cheat away from the Norwegian legislation. It helps to crush something fundamental in working life, which is about security of pay, security of work. It has gone so far that we see the need to propose a ban on rentals in the Oslo area, but also in the most vulnerable sectors and areas in Norway, and to propose a reduction in the manning industry to be the starting point, namely to provide clean vicariates to the labour market and not to force permanent employment. We come back to the examples – recently shown at the NRK – of how this is being exploited and deliberately cheated away from the legislation of the Veterinary Institute at Ås.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1517	Would the representative like to make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1522	I would like to address the proposals behind the Labour Party and the Socialist Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1527	The representative of Arild Grande has then taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1532	It is only one year since the Stortinget dealt with a case of renting, as it was a large proportion of rentals, particularly in the construction industry in the Oslo area, which broke with the general rule of fixed employment and several basic prerequisites of the Working Environment Act. Several restrictions were therefore adopted on access to rental, and the new law entered into force on 1 January of this year. The rules that were tightened last year include: that the use of a fixed-term employment contract without a guaranteed wage cannot be continued. The representative’s proposal claims that the manning industry ‘makes arrangements to circumvent the legislative changes’. I can't see that there's a basis for claiming this, and I want to add that although it's politically opportunistic to generalise on the basis of single examples, it's a bad basis for political decisions. Although we see an increase in the use of rentals in parts of the construction industry, the monitoring of the use of rentals in Norwegian working life shows that overall this represents no more than 1.5–2 pst. of all employed persons. Permanent, entire positions are and must be the general rule of Norwegian working life. We also see that the use of temporary employment has decreased and is now lower than in the previous government, that unemployment has not been so low in 10 years, and that the proportion working part-time is decreasing. The fact that Norwegian working life is mainly good, safe and decent does not mean that we do not find examples of unacceptable employment and labour crime, but we do not solve violations of laws with several laws, but we do so through better follow-up of those we have. The Ministry is examining measures to improve the control and enforcement of illegal rentals and is aiming at sending out a consultation note to this effect during the spring of 2019. This comes at the top of the fight against labour crime, which under this government has stepped up considerably, through the establishment of seven centres against labour crime, stricter penalties and higher fines for those who break laws and regulations, requirements for apprentices on all construction projects for which public funds are paid, to mention something. Then I would like to remind you that Norwegian business also wants a safe and clean working life, with a level playing field for everyone. I have said this before and said it again: most company owners in Norway have children in the same nursery as their employees and buy milk at the same local store. They want competitive conditions, want the removal of taxes on wealth and the possibility of hiring labour. Norwegian companies would be bankrupt if they were to compete with non-profit companies operating robbery against their employees. So we stand together in the fight against unprofessional work. However, a ban on rentals provides too little flexibility as regards the need for enterprises to avoid stoppages, vicariates and sick leave. Monitoring projects are now being carried out in cooperation with the social partners to monitor developments. It is a joint responsibility of all social partners to contribute to compliance with the legislation, and the parties work to ensure that companies do not offer job rates down to 5-10 pst. The new rules have only worked since the New Year, and we believe it is too early to conclude that more measures are needed. Therefore, the Right recommends voting against the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1547	Just under a year ago, we had a fairly similar debate as the one we see the outlines of here today. Last year, the government proposed amendments to the Working Environment Act to ensure that the general rule of permanent employment is established and to clarify the definition of permanent employment. A number of targeted interventions were also taken to address challenges, particularly related to rentals in the construction sector in Stor-Oslo. The tightening up came into force in January of this year. On 5 March, a Red proposal was put forward which, one after three months of operation, concludes that the rules on the opening of the lease are not being complied with and will be banned. It is, in my opinion, not possible to take seriously. We know that there have been challenges related to rentals in the construction industry in the Oslo area in recent years. That is also why we launched the necessary measures last year. We know that there has been a need for a clear definition of fixed-term employment, for example. requirements for predictability of work. That's why we made the necessary clarifications last year. We know that work life crime is and has been a challenge over time. This is why we have taken a number of steps in recent years to strengthen the fight against unprofessional actors, for example. through the a-krim centres. In particular, it is only a short time after the entry into force of last year’s decision to ban rentals. The conclusions drawn cannot be drawn after this short time. Until that time has been too short. Nor is it the case that the Workers' Party and several others claim in the case, that renting and access to temporary employment are a general problem. We can establish that, because we've seen the effect over time. However, we know that the proportion of rentals through the agency has been found to be reasonably stable, around 1.5-2 pst. of the annual works in the country. We also know that the proportion of temporary employment is no higher now than before. I would therefore like to quote from a fact-finding at in fact.no from February 8, 2018: ‘Based on the 2017 figures, we find that, in general, there is no coverage to claim that temporary employment is more common than before.’ The promotion party is concerned that both the employee and the employer experience a good and safe framework for their work. We've done that through the changes we did last year. We have ensured the necessary flexibility for employers, greater predictability for tenants and clarified the definition of permanent employment. If new measures are to be considered, it has to be in the light of actual changes that give rise to concern. That's not the situation today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1561	Once again, we have this issue up to discussion, and once again, there are steep fronts in the Grand Duchy about how safe or unsafe the working life should be for the individual. It probably won't be the last time in this period. It is still the case that the manning industry has a strong grip on the employment service, and it is still the case that the change in law adopted last summer is bypassed by the companies. On Monday, the NRK was able to read about Statsbyk, which in its supply processes presses prices down and will not recognize the illegalities that are taking place in their own construction sites. This shows the need for the Stortinget to tighten the rules throughout the working life to ensure that the individual worker is treated fairly. The manning industry is not running with value creation. The only purpose of the industry is the purchase and sale of hours of work at the expense of those who carry out the work for the benefit of managers and directors. Earlier this spring, a theme that I've been worried about for a long time was brightened up, just wanted to get the agency to clean up the apprenticeship system. They wanted this for a reason, and that's that the name 'learning company' is a quality stamp that allows them to win more from a market that, after all, has clear positive factors for those who are approved and active apprentices. I myself have the seat in the y-name and discussed this issue. The answer I received from Jan Tore Sanner to questions about opening the code should concern most of us who are concerned about the quality of vocational training. In addition, SV is involved in any proposal that will result in a strangulation of the manning industry. SV is not satisfied until the crew industry is out of Norwegian work. Our goal is for all workers to have a safe, sound, firm and direct addition, where there is also a better chance that people will dare to organize, but our proposals will unfortunately be downplayed again.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1573	Once again, Red will ban an entire industry based on a designed debate. Renting is no threat to serious working life. Today rentals in Norwegian working life represent a total of 1.5 to 2 pst. of the employed. At the same time, it is probably right that the proportion is higher in the construction industry. These include: on the basis that we have just decided to introduce new rules that strengthen the conditions for rental. For the Left, it is important that the way into working life is facilitated for all those groups that are currently excluded. We want to lower the threshold to get to work. At the same time, the aim must be to provide the full range of jobs for as many as possible and to provide everyone with good, predictable conditions for their work. For us, however, the path to fixed and full-time employment does not go through the total ban on rentals, smaller job breaks or shorter contracts. For prohibition means, in the worst case, that many of these people never get a chance and never get to try. Although Norway is progressing well and the level of employment is increasing, one out of five out of the working age are out of work. The left jobs for a safe working life for anyone who can and will work – that all of these will have room. That's why we prioritised the inclusion due when we went into the government last year. It means a broad range of instruments to include people who for various reasons have not been given room in their working life. The point is, we find solutions where others find prohibition. For the Left, it is absolutely essential that workers who are hired be treated in the same way as ordinary employees who do the same work. We have to work to prevent abuse. If the law is not complied with, controls and penalties may well be as important and effective as prohibitions. That is why we are focusing on the active work against crime at work. This government has set up seven work-wreck centers throughout the country. We're going to have a serious work life, but the Left believes that the concern should be directed primarily at those who are out of work, not at those who have gotten their feet inside, whether it's in the hire industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1592	Yesterday, on the Dayrevy, massive rents were revealed in one of Norway's largest construction sites, the new veterinary building on Campus Ås, where the state is the builder, with up to 60-70 pst. renting of electrical works. State-building admits in the entry that they have also revealed, when they have checks at construction sites, that alarmingly many workers have small fractions. This is just one of many examples that hiring labour in construction sites around Oslofjorden is out of control. At the same time, the government thins its thumbs and is satisfied in its non-binding celebrations about the Norwegian model. But where is the fixed employment in the state's own construction site, the one that makes people get mortgages in the bank? Where are the apprentices? Where is the job security? Where are the organized workers? Yes, where has the praised Norwegian model become? It is removed by the agencies and by the free flow of the EEA Agreement. As trusted Jan-Ole Evensen of the EL and IT Association says: This is a spiral of death for our working life. Anniken Hauglie beats on his side ring about the manning industry – an industry based on freelance work. That's the business model for these agencies. What is needed now is action, not the act of the bourgeois. Today, the Stortinget deals with a proposal from the Red on prohibit rentals from employment agencies in general; as an immediate measure, to get away from the construction industry around Oslofjorden Unfortunately, the bourgeois parties are voting against both proposals this year, against better knowledge. As of 1 January, the legislation was tightened up for the staffing agencies. Then they show that they still don't want to fold, but they systematically bypass the law. At the large Fafo conference yesterday, the construction industry itself was very critical of the large renting of labour. Jon Sandnes of the Land Association of Construction said that there has been a halve of the number of permanent employees of the contractors in the Oslo area from 2007 to 2015. The consequence is a declassification of the craft industry. This should have listened carefully to the Right. It's the NHO's own national association for the construction industry that says this. The question is, When will the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian Party wake up? When will they be in favour of measures to deal with the problem and vote in favour of our proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1614	It promotes the various proposals for prohibitions and restrictions on access to labour. The proposals will weaken the flexibility in the short-term labour market that is important both for employers and for employees. We have a well-organized working life there close to 80 pst. by all employees, on a full-time or long part-time basis. However, there is also a need for sick leave and leave to provide other workers with temporary compensation. Businesses also need flexibility to avoid unforeseen stoppages, nor do they always have sufficient local labour. The proposals for a rental ban do not seem to relate to this practical reality in Norwegian working life. Rent is a supplement, and that's how we want it to be. Last year, about 2.5 million annual works were carried out in Norwegian working life. Employees who were hired from the employment agencies in the NHO carried out 28 500 annual works. There is no high proportion of the total. There is a broad consensus that rentals should not be used as part of the fixed crew. We have seen an unfortunate development in parts of the construction industry, with increasing permanent rental usage. That is why the regulatory framework has also been tightened up. As many have pointed out, the new rules have only worked since the New Year. The enforcement of the rules of entry shall be strengthened. As the Stortinget has been briefed on in the past, the government intends to issue a consultation note with proposals for reinforced enforcement in a short time. The Ministry also implements monitoring projects on the development of the use of rentals, in cooperation with the social partners. A minority in the Committee would like to strengthen public employment services. Nav continuously develops an effective employment service, such as: include better digital services and market contacts and market teams in order to gain more knowledge of employers’ needs. Hub also includes company agreements for assistance with recruitment and cooperation with the manning industry. It is important in a situation of increasing labour shortage.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1629	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1634	On the dayrevy yesterday, it was found that a company that got a contract for the electrical work on Campus Ås, R2S, was established to get this contract. The Executive Director confirms about 60 to 70 pst. hired and refers to work of a temporary nature as the basis for its legality. I Prop. 39 L for 2014 to 2015, concerning, inter alia, temporary employment, it states that in the case of short-term and unforeseen situations, the employer may temporarily hire peaks which are not seasonal. Is the Council of State that it is correct to interpret the law that an enterprise created solely for the purpose of winning a tender can use more than 50 pst. hired labour, on the grounds that a temporary and unforeseen need has arisen?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1639	I do not know the matter in addition to what I have been referred to from the Dagsrevyen. As it is presented, it sounds doubtful that it is not in line with the law, but whether it is or not, I do not have the opportunity to respond, as I do not know the details of the matter. It is important that state buildings, like all other businesses, are careful to follow the law, and that they also take care that the ones they buy the services of, that is, subcontractors, follow the law. It's part of your responsibility. This case is difficult to answer, but I assume, of course, that Statsbyggen is careful that their contracts are in line with the intention of the law, and that you do not circumvent what is intended.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1644	That proposition states: ‘The employer may continue to employ temporarily for peaks which are not seasonal in the case of short-term, unpredictable situations. However, there is no possibility of temporarily employing to remedy general or even variations in order entry or uncertainty about any future reduction in work volume, with a view to reorganisation or the like. The organisation of work in projects or individual tasks will not in itself be sufficient to justify temporary employment under the Working Environment Act.» Is the government still on this policy? Is this current interpretation of the law continued? I would like the Council of State to confirm that. Instead of disclaiming liability and pointing to State Buildings, I wonder: What concrete action will the Council of State itself take to ensure that such abuse of the Code is stopped?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1654	The government has made no changes to the law since what the representative Grande referred to here was written. This is the current right one. Whether the contract to which it is referred, i.e. the one to which it was referred in the Dagsrevy, is contrary to the law, I cannot answer. I do not know the details in addition to what I have been referred to from the entry. I see that State Building disagrees with what was said. I don't know the details of it. But, as I say, I assume that State Building, like all other businesses, private and public, is looking after and following up their contracts are in line with the law. I expect State Building, like all other companies, to clear up questions as to whether the contract is lawful, so that any doubt can be put aside. I feel quite certain, now that there has been an awareness of this offer, that State Building is entering into the contract and checking whether the agreement is in line with the law, and whether the subcontractor's agreement is in line with the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1659	Together with the representative Heidi Nordby Lunde, I attended Fafo's annual conference yesterday. There I experienced a sparkly congregated performance between Jonas Bals in LO and Jon Sandes, head of the National Association of Construction Industry, in the NHO. It was a sparkling community of fixed employment, with apprentices, because it gave long-termity and increased productivity. It was really an act for the Norwegian model. It was trust and long-term. My question is: will the Council of State work to facilitate the phase-out of the use of manpower enterprises under the Working Environment Act § 14-12 [[2]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1666	First, I want to say that I share the sparkling commitment to a safe, serious work life that takes in apprentices. There is also a background for this government to change the procurement legislation, where it was just said to include apprentices in public tenders. This was an initiative that the Citizen Council took first, in the local procurement legislation, because we are committed to using the public procurement power for, among other things. to be able to take in apprentices. I fully share that commitment, both with Jonas Bals and with Jon Sandnes in the BNL. The question of the government will take the initiative to change the law on the points that Lundtigen referred to is no. We have no plans to make any changes to the law in that area now. We believe it is important to have the opportunity to hire labour, and we believe that the employment agencies are an important complement to today's work.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1674	I am fully aware that the apprenticeship system lies a little in the border country between education and work, but having skilled workers of good quality in all trades, I believe, is also in the interests of the Minister of Labour. I also expect the Minister of Labour to get along with the case where Adecco recently applied to become a learning business in Oslo, and then draw the application when there was noise around it. I would like to hear what the Minister of Labour thinks was the case in this case, and whether the Minister of Labour sees what challenges a apprenticeship in a manning company can pose?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1679	As the representative Lerbreck says, this is an area that is initially under another state council, but I might be allowed to reflect on the more general considerations surrounding the question. I note that the Minister of Knowledge has said that he should discuss the matter further. It is difficult to imagine that a recruitment agency can take in apprentices in areas in which they themselves do not have production. It is difficult to imagine that you should be able to follow an apprentice in the areas to which you sell services, but it is quite possible to imagine that a recruitment agency can have apprentices in, for example. office work. It is quite possible, simply because you also have office work on the crew company itself, but this will probably be further explained by the Minister of Knowledge. In an apprenticeship, it is important for the apprentice to receive close and good training in the subject in which he is to be trained, and of course it also requires the presence of employees who can follow the apprentice in question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1686	In a letter to Stortinget, the Council of State admits that there has been a clear increase in the use of rentals in parts of the construction industry. State Council Hauglie also says that she will, of course, follow closely the development of practice and continuously assess the need for action. Then we see that the rent share does not go down, and that the recruitment agencies bypass the new rental rules by offering their workers tiny job breaks. The last thing we got was confirmation from Stadsbyggen on Dagsrevyen last night. I wonder briefly what the minister will do, in concrete terms, to get the rent share down and the job breaks up.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1691	It may be worth recalling that the representative of the Moxnes and the undersigned probably has a slightly different worldview and a slightly different agenda in terms of the view of private ownership and private property, but it is a reality that there is relatively little rental in Norway, between 1 pst. and 1.5 pst., stable over time. Temporary employment goes down, full-time employees go up, unemployment goes down, the employment rate goes up, so there's a lot of positive developments that we're all supposed to be happy about. So you can ask the question, how high is the proportion going to be? I believe it is important that enterprises and businesses – public as individuals – have the opportunity to hire labour when needed. For example, prohibiting renting would cause serious problems for both the health and social sectors, the hospital sector, care and care, the education sector and the nursery sector to cover the statutory services they are obliged to provide to the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1696	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1703	Progress has been made when the opposition and trade union movement are able to push the government to phase out the use of manning companies in public procurement under the Working Environment Act § 14-12 [[2]] Otherwise, it was interesting to experience the Council's argument for flexibility. The centre party is also for some flexibility in working life. That state council pulled out was sick leave and leave. There is no problem that temporary employment agencies can cover it according to sections 14-12(b). It is quite okay, and that is the central party’s position. [[2]] So the Council of State said that one should cover work stops. It is also legal today according to § 14-12(a). [[2]] So none of the proposals on which the Council of State was concerned when it came to flexibility, mentioned what is now the main problem, namely, Section 14-12 of the Labour Environment Act. [[2]] Otherwise, I just want to clarify to John Gunnes from the Left: the Center Party does not accept a total ban on recruitment agencies. The centre party wants us no longer to have staffing agencies, but temporary employment agencies, which are just going to cover up vicariates, § 14-9(b) of the Working Environment Act. [[2]] So to the representative of Arild Grande, who said that the Workers' Party wants to delineate staffing to the vicariates. Then there is the big question: why does the Workers' Party not support proposal No. 6, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party, where we write that one should have «The prohibition on the general rental of labour by crew companies, in order to allow renting only in the event of real temporary employment needs or renting between production companies.» I believe that what has been brought forward here, including from the representative Grande, about Statsbyggen and Campus Ås, is that Statsbyggen uses the possibility of having leased-in companies under § 14-12 [[2]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1719	I would like to encourage the previous speakers to take a trip to the President's headquarters, Stord, to the yard, and tell the trusted people there that the biggest problem in this case is that those elected to trust enter into contracts for hiring labour when they have large production stops. In this case, I want to focus on inequality and the development of inequality in Norway. We all know that the evolution of inequality affects the trust in society, it affects our health, and it results in the creation of value, depending on the level of inequality. The OECD notes that Norway is a country with low inequalities, but is the country in the OECD with the second largest growth in wage inequality. This we know is strongly influenced by working conditions, because we see large differences in the type of employment contract and working conditions, depending on the level of wages and salaries you have and how on the pay side you are. We have seen this in Germany, a country we often see. In Germany, employment has risen sharply since the millennial shift, unlike in Norway, but they have experienced a sharp increase in the inequality after 2000 because one has received more atypical working conditions and contracts, mini-jobs with income of 50,000 – 15–20 pst. of employment in Germany is on these contracts — combined with large tax cuts to the richest. Norway is far from this, far from the German conditions on the labour market, but the number of employees in labour services increased by 19 pst. between 2016 and 2018. Other employment increased by 3 pst. In other words, the growth of labour services is an engine in the growth of employment that is now in Norway. And: The number of jobs increases significantly more than the number of employees. So it's common to have more jobs. So if you want to have greater inequality, go on with big tax cuts to them with the biggest incomes, and facilitate a work life with temporary work and rents that cancel out fixed employment. That's exactly what the right-hand government is doing. The working party will go a completely different way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1730	The representative Heidi Nordby Lunde said that she does not see that there is a basis for our claims, and that therefore there is no basis for taking any further steps – that it is better to let time go and hope that things are done by themselves. It was exactly the same right-hand side that tried when we pointed out the problems within the rental, when the trade movement was outside the Stortinget and asked Stortinget to take hold. The government put on its ideological skyscrapers and tried in the longest time to train the case. Luckily, we were able to put in place a large number of people who wanted to do it differently, and who contribute to cleaning up. In fact, the Council of State has confirmed in the change of line that what is in the preliminary work of the Law of Prop. 39 L for 2014-2015, still applicable. In other words, renting in the case in question at Ås must be regarded as illegal. Instead of disclaimer from the Council of State, which only hopes that State Building will take the initiative to clean this up, I would like to hear: What will the government do with what is the government's responsibility? The government is responsible for State Building through the municipal minister, the government is responsible for the state road system through the Minister of Transport. What will the government itself do to ensure that large, important state actors take responsibility, contribute to a clean working life and open up those who deliberately try to avoid the law? I would like to think that the Council of State went up to the pulpit and said something about it – how will the Council of State address the issue that has now arisen through the entry in the Newspaper, to make sure that State Building is cleared up? Then there is a need to link a comment to proposal No. 6, from the Center Party and SV. Last year's big case, which was the big victory of the trade union movement, was that we had the right to cancel the contract so that renting should be allowed only for establishments bound by a country-wide collective agreement with a trade union with the right to cancel, and that agreement should be made with the trustees. When the Centre Party and the SV propose to remove this provision, they take from the trade union movement what has now become an important tool for them, for the trustees in each activity: the ability to assess the real need for rental, which we have in a good number of businesses, especially in the West within the yard industry. How can we get into this in such a way that it's about pure vicariates? I think trust-elected people around the workplace know better what the needs are than what the Center Party on the Stortinget is doing. In the case of the example to which the representative Lundtigen refers, from Campus Ås, the employer has, according to his own statement, used Section 14-12 of the Working Environment Act to clean up our proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[1]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1741	In connection with the 200th anniversary of the Constitution of 1814, the Eidsvollsbyggen was renovated by the Albanian mafia – an appropriate monument to the Norwegian political elite's naivety anno 2014. Since then, criminal networks have stuck to the grip on more and more industries. They have worked in the Ministry of Defence, the Government Quartet, the Prime Minister's Housing – all documented in the book «Black Painting – Criminals Build Norway» by Einar Haakaas. Ecocrime notes that organised crime is a serious problem in construction, transport, car care, property and several services. These companies also pay money on drugs and income from trafficking in human beings and prostitution. They're criminals who run away with money that belongs to customers, creditors and the public. They let the chops go bankrupt and run like before under a new company name and carry billions of dollars out of Norway. Government councilman Anniken Hauglie acts on behalf of a right side who has systematically failed in the fight against this, by Haakaas described as an action lamb government. The Lammelsen is probably related to the naive belief of both the Advance Party and the Right in liberalist teachings that as far as possible deregulation is the path to growth and prosperity – a desktop theory that repeatedly collides with the reality of the Norwegian construction industry, where business owners discover that they lose jobs to lawbreakers who have understood that the EU's market liberal vision of the lowest possible thresholds for everything and everyone also means low thresholds for crime. Today, the representatives of the bourgeois parties have used their speaking time on the Stortinget to minimize the problems, talk about how fine everything is, and how few are actually hired. They are happy to overlook that the proportion of rentals is much larger in the construction sites. They smoothly ignore the revelations that come over again and again in the media. They disregard the facts of the construction trade unions that found out at 59 construction sites in Oslo and Akershus that it was 40 p.m. hired, and that 80 pst. of the rental was illegal. They do the ostrich -- they stick their heads in the sand instead of doing the right thing: take measures that clean up. It's a shame to see that the lamb of action persists with the civilians. It's very bad for Norwegian working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1752	I got a specific question from the representative of Grande about what the government has done to ensure that the businesses for which the state itself is responsible are actually complying with the laws and regulations. The government has taken a number of initiatives to contribute to a serious work life. Among other things, we have amended the Public Acquisition Act, it is both about including apprentices – as I mentioned in the reply here instead – and about the responsibility for the number of contract stages in public tenders. In addition, this government has a so-called pooling of all the letters of allocation to the underlying agencies and businesses in 2018 and 2019 that they have a special responsibility to follow up the contracts they have concluded and that they should also report back on those contracts. It is precisely an instrument to ensure that the contracts entered into by the State are followed up. I have to say that I am reacting very strongly to both what the representative of Moxnes is making himself say, and what he is allowed to say here from this pulpit. It's a form and a content that I think is pretty dull. This government has taken the fight against labour crime very seriously. We have concluded three strategies with the social partners to overcome what we believe is a practice in Norwegian working life. It is a common interest for all of us to open up unprofessional – and not only unprofessional, but also criminal – players who exploit employees, who compete seriously and undermine taxes and taxes to the community. What we are now seeing is that through the work we have done – we have more supervision, we take more, more orders – it is harder to be a criminal now than it was before. I'm not saying that it's perfect, and that the problem is solved, but we see a significant improvement in the results of this work. We see that more consumers buy services white, and we also get feedback from companies, through business surveys, where they say that they now feel that it is harder to operate unprofessionally, more difficult to be cellars than it was before. I'm not saying that there's no one who's a waitress, or that there's no one who's unprofessional, because that's it. But what Mr. Moxnes says is directly wrong. It seems like clean and cutting propaganda without root in reality, and I think it's actually quite drudgery. We will continue to work to get even more unprofessional actors out of Norwegian working life. It's the employees who earn it, it's the employers who earn it, but it's also us who serve it together. I am pleased with the good feedback we receive both from the social partners and from state businesses, who are now reporting improvements.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1761	There is a small but important difference in this matter when I look beyond the hall today, and it is that the Christian People's Party is not present. It was the Christian People's Party that laid the foundations for the majority decision in June 2018, which gave tightening. The Christian People's Party is no longer present in the opposition, but they are present in government. I just want to say to the Christian People's Party that I expect them now to make sure that the Labour Inspectorate gets the necessary legal support in the document that comes from the government, to follow up the tightening up that was done last June. The representative Eigil Knutsen said that the Workers' Party wants a completely different way, and I am very happy about it, because in it there is an impatience – an impatience in that one will longer. One sees that what we got was not enough. I trust the representative Arild Grande said that in the case of the State Building Agreement on Campus Ås, it is according to the Working Environment Act § 14-12 is about temporary rental, § 14-9 is about stoppages, and therefore this is a grey zone. [[2]] [[2 a]] The centre party agreed with the representative of Grande that it was a major improvement on § 14-12 when we got the requirement for an agreement with a trade union with the right to cancel. [[2]] But as Vice President of the Joint Union, Steinar Krogstad, said: If the government is not willing to follow this up through the Labour Inspectorate, the Joint Confederation will oppose the use of § 14-12 [[2]] So what we're talking about here is essential: that we get the temporary employment agencies demarcated to vicariates, which are temporary posts, which are legal in Sections 14-9. [[2b]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1773	The representative of the Bears Moxnes has spoken twice before in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment of up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1778	I'm recording that the councils are annoyed with my use of words. But think if she was just as annoyed by the situation we see in work, that criminals party the grip on more and more industries, that the serious and law-abiding are competing out, and that we have an entire industry that is based on the business model of unwork, a model that the Government's party itself is turning around in the Storting by voting down our proposals today. If we had seen an equally committed state council address these problems, she would have received praise from the pulpit of all parties. But as long as her party here in the Chamber – along with its other bourgeois allies – agrees with our proposals, it comes out clearly. Then we'll have to wait and see if you're going to take a good look tonight – then maybe there'll be some praise from our edge.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1783	There is no need to be irritated to show action, and this government has demonstrated this by stepping up efforts to combat crime at work, by establishing seven centres against crime at work and by imposing stricter penalties and higher fines for those who break laws and regulations. Requirements for apprentices for all construction projects for which public funding has been provided have been mentioned. Several service centres have also been established to provide foreign workers with information on their rights and obligations, preferably in their language. So we can talk more about both language and irritation. I scrambled a little when I heard the SV representative say that the crew industry is not involved in value creation. Even when I was a 20-year-old in private business, I started working as a temporary employment agency. If they weren't involved in value creation, it would at least be of great value to me. Very many of the rental agencies also carry out extensive inclusion work, such as: The veteran project of Manpower in Trondheim. They help Norwegian veterans who have returned from foreign service to recalibrate their competence for civil work. So it's not value creation! I think a lot of people could disagree with that. Some have mentioned ideological skyscrapers, but had it not been for the consequences of Red's policy to be so serious and would have affected so many, I would almost have been tempted to vote in favour of Red's proposal and make the consequences of their policies visible. If this proposal had been adopted, for example, health Norway would have stopped. Speaking of Red and desktop theories: We lack nurses and doctors in Norway, especially to manage the health services in the districts. Very many of the nurses and doctors hired to meet the needs of Norwegian hospitals come from other countries and do not want permanent employment because they would like to have a regular job in their home country or flexibility. These do not fill out work stops or vicariates – by way of paragraphry. In 2017, there were 775,000 hours of hired doctors and nurses performing vital work in Norwegian hospitals. We don't have Norwegian doctors and nurses to fill 775,000 hours. The result of Rødt's policy would be nothing more than a bulwark guerrilla. The representative Moxnes is talking about paralysis of action, but they represent an ideology that there will never be a paralysis of action from this hall to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1796	The representative Heidi Nordby Lunde brings out the seven work-life crime centers, and that's good. Everyone is for that work; everyone is for that work to be more focused and more effective; everyone is against crime. What is, however, the problem of employment policy is what is difficult to prove to the Labour Inspectorate and other public bodies is criminal. There are grey zones here – there are grey zones that create enormous problems, including for the supervisory sessions, because it is difficult to document, even by referring to the law and regulation, that this is illegal. A number of cases of social dumping, a number of cases of unprofessional activity, arise as a result of unclear rules. We've now got into the discussion what's going on at Ås. However, the relationship in terms of stoppages versus temporary nature is that it is incredibly difficult to define that the use of employment agencies falls within the scope of stoppages, i.e. the Working Environment Act § 14-12 [[2]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1805	The representative of Arild Grande has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1810	I challenged the Council of State to say something about what she will do now, based on the case that came in the News of the Day yesterday, and what the government will do to make sure that such matters do not come in the future. There was a small list of measures that the government has implemented, which seemed to show the government's power of action. But it doesn't work. Despite the fact that the government claims it has a great deal to do with this, we still get things like the one about State Building on Campus Ås just. We have had the Traftec case, with an actor commissioned by the State Road Service, where the State Road Service has not ensured that the contracts are entered into in such a way that when workers are denied a collective agreement, they can cancel the contracts. This shows that the government is good with words, but in action they show nothing but disqualified. I wish we had a state council that said, "We're going to clean up, we're going to show the way to a clean working life." Unfortunately, we don't have that with today's government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1817	There has been a strange debate to follow when the Workers' Party, which could at least be considered a responsible and decent party in the past, now asks the Council of State of the United Kingdom to decide, and almost judge, whether a company has followed the law or not, based on a media bill. With respect to reporting, Norwegian working life deserves cleanliness and accountability. This room is going to make the general rules, and then we have our own agencies to follow up that the laws and rules are actually being followed up. That is why I am proud and happy that we have a government that has made sure that the controls are strengthened, which has taken those who are dishonest, harder, and who have made sure that several unprofessional employers are separated, so that the vast majority of employers, who are serious and legally and properly, will have the flexibility they need. I record that the Socialist Left Party made its contribution and left the hall. It is especially when the representative Lerbreck says that all employees should have a full and firm position, while the same party, the Socialist Left Party, has an advertisement out in these days about a temporary position. I think that's special. Similarly, it is when the representative Moxnes talks about the Norwegian model and the tripartite cooperation. There is one party in this room that is opposed to the Norwegian model and the tripartite cooperation: Red. Red wishes as known a two-part model, and then I think it is special to attack us the others for that. In the course of the debate, Mr Lundtegen made several comments. I must say, it may be unparliamentary, but the representative Lundteg is not a lawyer. The world often works something different out there, and then it's important to see: what have we done? Well, we've tightened up, we've tackled the problems we had in the construction industry in Stor-Oslo. We've tightened up, the rules came into force on 1 January this year. We've made sure that we have control settings that follow up. Then it becomes unprofessionally a few months after the law came into force, to ask the Council of State to consider individual cases, whether they comply with the law or not. Fortunately, there are other instances than this hall that have to decide.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1830	The representative of Wiborg is right that I am not a lawyer. I'm elected and I have a different education. Nevertheless, in the discussion, it's an advantage to have a fairly good overview of what you're talking about. If the representative Wiborg had had better clarity in which legal clauses allow the crew companies legal access to the Norwegian labour market, it would have been easier. What has emerged here in the context of State Building is that there is a need for the heads of State Building, namely the State Council concerned, to clarify the procurement procedures of State Building for their projects, the requirements they impose on their own employees in the companies to do the job, and the requirements applicable to recruitment agencies, if they wish to use it. It is not difficult for Statsbygg to be informed that if a manning company uses temporary jobs of the kind that a building is – most companies have more construction, and thus a permanent job – an agreement with a trade union is required with the right to set up. If a manning undertaking is to be used in a public building, it should, and must, be required to have an agreement with a trade union with a right of cancellation. One should not bypass it by saying that this is a stoppage, because that is not the case – a very important clarification. In the end, I want to develop something that has been far too small, namely the food industry and the situation in Finnland. What we're talking about now will have major consequences if the opposition's demands are met, by a transition from temporary and manning agencies in the food industry in Finnmark and North Norway to permanent jobs. I would like to stress that it must happen at the same time that, as elected representatives of the people, we are adding the right economic framework conditions for the fishing industry, which makes it profitable to carry out processing in Norway with permanent staff. There's a lot of work going on here, big tasks we're facing, tasks that could create a community in Finnmark, not just jobs for people flying in, there's a short time and flying back. We have to get away from that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1839	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1855	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that up to five lines of response be given to posts by members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note. The first speaker is Marianne Marthinsen, for the case-speaker.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1866	As the President mentioned here, I have the floor on behalf of the President-in-Office, Martin Kolberg, and would like to thank him for his good cooperation in the Committee. This is a matter on which the Committee stands and on which it has dealt quickly to ensure progress in the further process. The case stems from the transformation of the Air Force headquarters Kjeller into the state company AIM Norway SF in 2011. AIM Norway AS provides maintenance and modification services to aircraft, helicopters, components and ground equipment to the Defence and other customers. In 2016, an authorisation was granted for the sale of the State’s holding in the company, and the Ministry of Defence has now concluded an agreement to sell the shares. This agreement has been concluded with Kongsberg Defence & Aerospace AS. That agreement reserves the right of the Storting to make assumptions about the execution of the sale, so the purpose of the proposition is for the Government to request permission from the Storing to enter into commitments in 2019 for future payments of up to 50 million. kr for the settlement of price adjustment mechanisms in 2023 and 2027 under terms of the agreement for the sale of government shares in AIM Norway AS. The Committee endorses the government’s assessment of both the accuracy and importance of the sale of AIM Norway AS to Kongsberg Defence & Aerospace AS and wishes to end by stressing the need to facilitate good strategic cooperation between Defence and AIM Norway in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1877	The deputy rapporteur did a glittering job of explaining the matter, so I will be quite brief. As a nation, we need to protect our ability to make our own assessments of technology and material. AIM Norway is today an important player in the Norwegian defence industry, especially in view of its capabilities in supporting military air systems such as fighter aircraft and helicopters. The sale is an important measure to strengthen and ensure Norwegian preparedness in support of the military air systems of the Defence and is therefore fully in line with the Report. St. 9 for 2015–2016, National Defence Industrial Strategy. Kongsberg, as a major industrial player, can further develop the company and help strengthen the competitiveness of AIM Norway nationally and create even greater opportunities internationally. It is also positive that Kongsberg will invite Patria to join the team. When Kongsberg, Patria and AIM join forces, they become one of the largest actors in North Europe in supporting military systems. We see here a strengthened preparedness nationally, a strengthened Nordic cooperation and a strengthened industrial actor against the European defence cooperation programmes that will come in the future. Finally, I am pleased that there is an overall committee that supports the government's proposal. It will facilitate and contribute to strengthening the Norwegian and Nordic defence industries in meeting international competition and thereby securing national preparedness.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1888	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1900	Then it looks like we're ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1909	A total of nine proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1-4, from Trond Giske on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposed no. 5-7, from Trond Giske on behalf of the Labour Party and the Centre Party proposal No 8, from Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 9, from Freddy André Supreme Court on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 9, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide for voluntary teams and associations to have access to municipal buildings for their activities and events’.» Red is in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1941	Proposal No. 8, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for better financial framework conditions for organisationally-owned cultural buildings by providing VAT compensation for new, new and new construction and conversion costs for construction, construction or other real estate.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1958	Proposal No. 6, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a significant reduction in the bureaucracy for volunteering and for the active involvement of volunteering in this work.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have already supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1975	Proposal No. 5 and 7 from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to actively involve Freewill Norway and LNU in all the development work referred to as actions in the Message. St. 10 [[2018–2019]] Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to ensure that representatives of Freewill Norway and LNU are included in the proposed Simplification Council.’ The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have already supported the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e1999	Proposal No. 1-4, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to strengthen its efforts against foreign gambling companies in Norway, with special emphasis on promoting the marketing of illegal gambling to the Norwegian market.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that LNU and Voluntaryness Norway play an active role in the development of the ‘Leisure Card’.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make proposals to convert the VAT compensation to a regulated scheme, where the percentage reimbursed is regularly increased to 100 pst in four years’ time.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to restore previous posts for the volunteer agencies in the Ministry of Culture budget.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e2050	During the debate, Mr Christoffersen has presented one proposal on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to submit proposals to incorporate the ILO core conventions into the Human Rights Act.’ Alternatively, this proposal and the recommendation of the Committee shall be rejected. The centre party, the environmental party Dei Green and Red have already supported the proposal. The Committee had recommended that the Storting should do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e2080	A total of four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Mari Holm Lønneth on behalf of the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party proposed no. 2 and 3, by Willfred Nordlund on behalf of the Centre Party proposal No 4, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party The Committee had recommended that the Storting should do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e2130	I and IV are being raked. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e2144	Proposal No. 4, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to investigate and submit proposals for the legalisation of the condition report in connection with the sale of housing.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e2159	I pressed wrong. Delete only one vote for SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e2164	There seems to be more – and it will be registered.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e2176	Proposal No. 2 and 3 from the Center Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘In Law No 3 July 1992 93 must: § 3-1 new fourth paragraph is replaced by the following: The buyer must cover the losses and costs of missing up to an amount of 1/2 G unless otherwise stated in the law. [[4]] This does not apply, however, to agreements where a building is sold as new.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘In Law No 3 July 1992 93 must: § 4-12 new third paragraph is replaced by the following: In the event of an area failure within the meaning of the second paragraph of Section 3-3, the discount shall be fixed proportionately on the basis of the square metre price of the sold property.» [[3]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e2208	Proposal No. 1, from the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘I In Law 3 July 1992 No. 93 on the disposal of fixed property is amended as follows: the second sentence of the first paragraph of Section 1-1 is replaced by the following: As fixed property, land and buildings are considered, and other equipment permanently linked to the land. Paragraphs 3 to 1 are replaced by the § 3-1 Initial indication of a lack of ownership has a defect if he does not comply with the quality, equipment and other requirements of the contract. [[1]] §§ 3-2 to 3-6 liabilities to the extent that they have not been agreed in accordance with § 1-2. [[2]] In assessing whether the property has a defect, a reason should be given for the time when the awakening under the second paragraph of Section 2-4 or after the agreement passed on to the buyer. There may be a problem even if an error occurs later. [[3]] The seller answers and a defect that occurs later if the reason for the defect is a breach of contract from the seller. The same applies if the seller assumes liability for properties or other property by guarantee or otherwise until a later date. [[4]] The buyer has to cover the losses and costs of missing up to a sum of NOK 10000 unless otherwise stated in the laws. This does not apply, however, to agreements where a building is sold as new. The Ministry may, by regulation, adjust the amount in the first sentence in the event of substantial changes in the monetary value. Paragraphs 3 to 2 are replaced by the § 3-2 General requirements for the condition Property has a defect if it is not in accordance with what the buyer could expect from the type, age and visible condition of the property. [[1]] [[2]] The property has a defect if it does not fit for a particular purpose that the seller was or must be familiar with when the disposal was agreed. However, this does not apply when the assumption shows that the buyer did not rely on the seller’s expertise or assessment, or did not have reasonable reason to do so. [[3]] In the case of consumer purchases referred to in the third paragraph of Section 1-2, the property has a defect if it does not comply with legal or statutory requirements of public law, which were applicable to the property at the time the contract was concluded. This does not apply, however, if the assumption shows that the buyer did not rely on the seller’s expertise and judgement, or did not have reasonable reason to do so. Paragraphs 3 to 3 are replaced by the § 3-3 Land failure If the property has less land than the buyer has expected, it is not a defect without the area being significantly less than that declared by the seller or the agents of the seller, or they have drilled in a particularly reprehensible manner. [[1]] [[clean]] 2) There is a deficiency if buildings on the property have less area than that declared by the seller or the agents of the seller, so the deviation is greater than two percent and is at least one square metre. However, it is not a defect if the seller proves that the purchaser did not pay attention to the information. the first sentence of the first paragraph of Section 3-4 is replaced by the following: So far as not otherwise followed by an agreement, the property shall, in order not to have a defect, have such things and rights as are mentioned in the second paragraph and Sections 3 to 5 and 3 to 6. the first sentence of Section 3-7 is replaced by the following: The property has a defect if the purchaser has not been informed of the circumstances of the property that the seller knew or had to know about, and that the buyer had reason to expect. the first sentence of the first paragraph of Section 3-8 is replaced by the following: The property has a defect if the circumstances of the property do not correspond to the information provided by the seller to the buyer. Paragraphs 3 to 9 are replaced by the § 3-9 Property sold «as he is» or similar Even if the property is sold «as he is» or with similar general retention, the property has a defect where this results from §§ 3-7 or 3-8. [[1]] The property also has a defect if he is in a much poorer condition than the buyer had reason to expect from the purchase price and otherwise. [[2]] In the case of consumer purchases as referred to in the third paragraph of Section 1-2, “as he is” maintenance and similar general maintenance have no effect. The same applies to retention that is not specified enough to influence the assessment of the purchaser of the property. Paragraphs 3 to 10 are replaced by the following: § 3-10 Vision and other preliminary investigation. State reports and other sales documents The buyer cannot make a defect that the purchaser knew or had to know when the agreement was concluded. [[1]] The purchaser shall be presumed to be aware of the circumstances which clearly arise from a condition report or other balance sheet in which the buyer is allowed to enter. The Ministry may prescribe the requirements to be met for a condition report to take effect as referred to in the second sentence, including requirements for authorised building experts and the contents of the reports. [[2]] If, before the agreement was concluded, the purchaser had examined the property or, without reasonable cause, had not followed a request from the seller for an investigation, the buyer could not assert that a defect that the buyer should have been familiar with during the investigation. This does not apply, however, if the seller has been grossly reckless, dishonest or otherwise contrary to good faith. [[3]] The first and second paragraphs do not restrict Section 3-7 on missing information on ownership. § 4-8, first paragraph, the introductory part is replaced by the following: If there is a defect in the ownership, but this does not appear on the buyer or, in the event that the buyer is awake, the buyer may: [[1]] The following new third sentence shall be added to the fourth paragraph of Section 4-10: Infringement of the right after the first paragraph does not prevent a claim from the purchaser for damages, but the purchaser may have to bear part of the loss under the first paragraph of Section 7-2. The current third sentence is going to be a new fourth sentence. The first paragraph of § 4-12 is replaced by the following: If the property has a defect, the purchaser may require a proportionate discount. [[1]] Paragraph 4-16 of the first paragraph is replaced by the following: The buyer may claim due to a defect existing against the previous seller or other former party to the contract, as much as claims due to the defect may be made by the seller. [[1]] Paragraph 4-17, first paragraph, second sentence, is replaced by the following: However, the purchaser’s right to demand correction under § 4-10 and the limit on the amount of the fourth paragraph of § 3-1 does not apply. Paragraphs 4 to 18 are replaced by the following: However, the provisions of the fourth paragraph of Section 3-1 do not apply. point (a) of the third paragraph of Section 7-1 shall be replaced by the following: the usual measures to compensate for the lack of ownership or the failure of the seller to give up or entrust the use of ownership in a timely manner; or [[Cou]] II 1st@item: inlistbox The law applies from the time the King rules. 2nd@item: inlistbox The amendments shall apply to agreements concluded after the entry into force of the Act.’;» The centre party has already received subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e2418	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote. The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e2430	The law decision will be passed until a second time in a future meeting of the Stortinge. The Committee shall be consulted on II and III. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e3072	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e3082	The law decision will be passed until a second time in a future meeting of the Stortinge.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e3091	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1-3, by Per Olaf Lundtigen, on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposed no. 4 and 5, by Arild Grande on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 6, from Per Olaf Lundtigen on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 6, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for proposals to introduce a ban on the general rental of labour from crew companies, in order to allow renting only in the event of real temporary employment needs or renting between production companies.’ Red is in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e3120	Proposal No. 4 and 5 from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a ban on labour hiring, limited to either the geographically most vulnerable areas or restricted to the most vulnerable industries. As an immediate measure, the Stortinget Government is asking for a ban on labour hiring from non-production establishments on construction sites, in the provinces of Oslo, Akershus, Østfold, Buskerud and Vestfold, cf. [[5]] § 14-12 of the Environmental Protection Act by 1 July 2019.» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make the necessary regulatory changes and to propose the necessary appropriations to strengthen employment services as a public task in the context of the State budget 2020.’;» The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e3151	Alternatively, between the recommendation and the proposal No. 1-3, from the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to propose an amendment to Section 14-12 of the Working Environment Act which ensures that rents under this paragraph are limited to vikariats.’ [[1]] Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The budget asks the Government to propose the removal of general access to temporary employment.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is immediately asked to ensure that recruitment agencies do not become training establishments.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-16.ana.ud61e3229	Then it says that for the President to wish the Storting a brilliant and fine May 17 celebration. This means that today's maps are ready. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
