ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e89	The representatives Emilie Enger Mehl, Ove Trellevik, Helge André Njåstad, Une Bastholm, Torstein Tvedt Solberg, Liv Signe Navarsete and Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. From the Central Party Group of Great Britain there is a notice that the licence granted to the representative of Sigbjørn Gülsvik for the period from 12 March to 14 March is hereby amended to take effect from 12 March at 10 a.m. 13 to 14 March. – This message is taken into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e127	The representative, Karin Andersen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e132	On behalf of the big business representatives Kari Elisabeth Kaski, Sheida Sangtarash and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a fairer collection and various measures to prevent more ports from falling into debt.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e137	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e144	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Kari Kjenaas Kjos. – Other proposals are not available, and Kari Kjønaas Kjos is considered unanimously elected president of the current meeting. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e168	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e177	I would like to start by thanking the Committee for good cooperation in the matter. This is a complex matter, and as the comments in the case reveal, the opinions shared within the committee are not only about what is the right conclusion, but also about the reality that forms the basis for the case. I'm going to try to use this post to explain to the Right and hopefully also the position of the majority parties in the case. This issue is therefore about the coordination of public occupational pension schemes for annual coals between 1944 and 1953. The Central Party representative’s proposal aims at correcting an ‘injustice in today’s law’. The core of this case is therefore whether or not such an injustice has occurred, and what it is in that case. The assessment of this, at least in the context relevant to this room, must, in our view, be based on whether the total amount of pension from social security and the occupational pension scheme is in line with what could reasonably be expected, following the application of the rules on coordination to the public sector in 2011. It cannot be assessed by comparing what individual pension beneficiaries could receive with a different pension scheme, because there is no doubt that government employees in the annual budgets covered by this case, who are in employment after 67 years, would receive a higher total pension if the parties in 2009 had agreed to a flexible occupational pension. It is also quite true that for these years it does not pay to be longer at work after 67 years, at least after compensating for the adjustment of life expectancy, and at least in the case of pensions. As you can see, the issue we have today is just an example of why we needed a new pension scheme. This does not mean, however, that it is right to go back and change a negotiated agreement ten years after it was concluded, and to change the downsides of the agreement for one group, after all the upsides have been removed. The essence of this case is that the injustice that may prevail is traced back to negotiated agreements between the social partners. In that case, it is a deliberate wrong in the sense that someone has been given priority in the negotiations, while others have been given priority. In this case, those who left the job at 62 years of age and did not pay for previous withdrawals in the form of a lower annual pension were prioritised, while those who are in employment at 67 years of age were prioritised by not obtaining any gain in the form of an increased annual pension after they compensated for the retirement adjustment in the occupational pension. Therefore, this case does not only have a cost aspect in the sense that the amendments proposed in the proposal for a representative will have to be financed. Even more important, in my view, are the principal aspects. The model we have in Norway, with negotiations between the social partners on wages and pensions, is an important moderating element that we in the Right are concerned about, precisely because it forces the parties to take on social responsibility, think about the sustainability of the arrangements over time and to give and take to get everything up. I am concerned about the increasing trend that we see, that positions lost in the negotiations between the parties come back to Stortinget as a representative proposal from the opposition. If this procedure is successful, you're at risk of undermining the entire negotiating institute. It will also create uncertainty as to whether the agreements we make today will stand in the future. Our pension system is a complex whole with cross-political compromises, and they should remain. If the Storting begins to give in to the demands of the press groups individually in pension matters, after losing them in the negotiations, there will be a serious warning of the sustainability of the welfare society in the future. We therefore insist that this proposal be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e192	The pension reform was a cross-political agreement in Stortinget. The progress party and SV chose to stand outside at the time. SV accepted the pension reform by entering the Stoltenberg II government. The party of progress did the same with its entry into the Solberg government. The pension reform was necessary. Demographic developments showed fewer and fewer active persons per pensioner. We live longer. In addition, future generations of pensioners will have higher earnings than those from which they fall. Combined with the pay-as-you-go principle, without the funding of popular security, the tax burden on future professionals would be greater than they could have. The pension reform therefore contained two saving elements: life-age adjustment and a limitation on the regulation of current pensions. Historical figures showed that new regulation would give pensioners a real wage development in plus, but a little less plus than without changes. Now, in the last four years, reality has shown that it was a premise that didn't stick, and the Storting should take the consequences of it. There is no topic in this case, but something we will come back to in connection with the annual social security payments. But the lifestyle adjustment is important for the matter we are dealing with now. From a generation perspective, life-age adjustment is important. It is the handshake of us who are approaching retirement age today, of our children and grandchildren – we also need to pay the bill for increasing life expectancy, not just ease it to the next generations. We're going to use increased life expectancy to stay longer at work or to contribute to paying the price for several years as a pensioner on a lower payment per year. The pension agreement also included some improvements, including earnings from the first crown and from the age of 13 years, care points, protection points, AFP as a lifelong mark-up, the possibility of flexible retirement from the age of 62, with or without a combination of work, but without shortening against any income from work, and the possibility of counteracting the adjustment of life expectancy by continuing to work after the age of 67. If the pension reform had only been a matter of popular concern, the matter would have been relatively simple, but it also affects occupational retirement provision. Net occupational pension is a supplement to popular security, regardless of whether popular security rises or falls. The problem arises for public sector occupational pensions, which have a gross guarantee of 66 pst. of final wages and salaries in the case of full earnings. Then the pension can move up and down as much as it will – the gross pension level initially guarantees 66 pst. of previous wages and salaries. It's a good organisation of employees' organisations not just give up, and it's so understandable. At the same time, it was unmistakable that all others, but not public sector employees, should be burdened with life expectancy adjustment. Public service pensions were therefore also adjusted for life. There have been some consequences that employee organisations did not foresee at that time. And that's the background for the negotiation of a new net public service pension with effect from the age line born in 1963. Back home are those who fall between chairs – those who were born before 1963 and who are encouraged by the authorities to work beyond the age of 67. We have a lot of combinations here: some people take a lot of population back from 62 years, but they keep working. Some people take a lot of people's fear from 67 years old, but they keep working. Some people continue to work after 67 years, without taking out popular suspicion. So here's a lot of possibilities. The principle of a gross pension scheme is that the amount of the social security is paid in full, while the amount of the occupational pension is deducted from the amount of the social security earned. Everyone understands that if you work long enough, it is unfair that you take full responsibility for your occupational pension if you work long enough, but at the same time, it would be perceived unfairly by everyone else if public occupational pensioners who alone would not be affected by the lifestyle adjustment in the social security system. The question in this case is whether coordination is too strict. This is a difficult topic. In addition, there are more null pensioners in the public occupational pension schemes than those mentioned in the proposal of the Centre Party. In the past, the Workers' Party has received a unanimous increase in the fact that all aspects of coordination, including public occupational pensions, should be highlighted in the case we receive this spring in the case of a new public service pension. That is why we are proposing today that the issue that comes to spring should also mention how to strengthen the rules of procedure for public servants born in 1944-1962. I take up the proposal we are promoting together with SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e215	The representative Lise Christoffersen has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e220	I want to start by thanking the case rapporteur for releasing us through a technically complicated case that has a lot of history behind it. I would also like to thank the proposers for raising an important issue and an important issue. The proposers propose to amend the law on the coordination of pension and social security benefits. The whole of the case is based on both the pension reform, which all parties with the exception of the Progress Party stood behind, and the agreement concluded between the parties in 2009 on public service pensions. I have explained several times in previous debates why the Progress Party voted against the pension reform. Our main reason was, and is, that we are against underregulation of pensions, but also that we are against curtailment, and several other things. Despite this, there are several important elements in the pension reform that the Progress Party also appears to be right and important. These include: the need to counteract life expectancy adjustment by continuing to work, and to pay for it financially, as the pension reform provided for it, and also provided for greater flexibility in combining work and retirement. It's important and good work, because society needs people to be more at work. Older workers possess a great deal of expertise and knowledge that we need, and we should encourage older people to go further in work. The Progress Party, the Right, the Left and the Christian People's Party chose, in the previous period, to strengthen the protection of older workers in the Working Environment Act by increasing the age limit from 70 to 72, with a view to further increasing it. In the Granavolden platform, we were given the advantage that we should have a corresponding increase in the state, and that's important. We already see the results of the grips and other grips: several older people are now more at work. When a pension reform with major changes is introduced, it depends on transitional arrangements, coordination rules between old and new schemes. The representative proposal refers to a group that does not benefit from all the principles of pension reform that it will pay off longer in work. The party of progress understands that this can be unreasonable and unlucky. At the same time, these complex issues are not suitable as a Document 8 proposal, but as a more thorough assessment. As we write in the comments on the matter, I am very pleased that we in the Granavolden platform were given the opportunity to carry out an evaluation of the pension reform. It is natural that the issue raised by the proposers, and on which the Committee has received many requests, becomes part of the evaluation, so as to ensure that this important area is dealt with in a coherent, responsible and orderly manner, and that any weaknesses in the pension reform can be corrected, so that the greatest possible effort can be made in the work of all groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e235	The goal of the pension reform from 1 January 2011 was twofold: it was the line of work, it was to stimulate people to stay longer in work, and to save on pension expenditure. We hope it works like that. But we have a special rule that applies to government employees who were born in 1944-1953, which says that if one continues to work beyond 67 years, the occupational pension will be lower the longer a worker. If a worker is 72 to 73 years old, there will be zero in occupational retirement provision. This is what is called the ‘coordination trap’. This is not intended, and that is what is at the heart of the proposal of the Central Party, and we want to correct it. At the hearing of the Committee on 31 January 2019, all workers’ organisations submitted the proposal, including the two pension providers, KLP and PKH, i.e. the Pension Fund for Health Companies in the Capital Region. You support the proposal. The consequence of today's special rule is that it does not pay for government employees to work beyond the age of 67. That's why most end at 67 years. A person can circumvent the special rule by establishing a company, employing himself in the company and renting himself out to the public. Today's system conflicts with both the workline objective and the goal of saving pension expenditure, which I will explain in more detail in the article. The solution proposed by the Centre Party is that, if a person is a public employee of one of the parties, he/she does not reduce his/her occupational pension by working beyond the age of 67. If one waits to take out a popular pension, it is said that the annual amount will increase longer than one waits. This applies to everyone, whether in the private or in the public sector. The point of the proposal of the Central Party for a change to the Coordination Act is that occupational retirement provision should no longer be reduced in the case of a job. Thus, the proposal of the Centre Party has no impact on the cost of people's rights or occupational pensions. In the case of the State pension fund, CLP or municipal health pension funds, later withdrawals of occupational pension will reduce the payments made by those pension funds and thus reduce their expenditure. As a result, the number of people who finish work at the age of 67 is higher, the expenditure on pension funds is higher. In addition to this point, those who work beyond the age of 67 will pay in 2 pst. pension contributions without increasing occupational retirement provision when you have full earnings. The Progress Party and the Left have, in the context of this case, expressed their agreement in writing to the proposal of the Centre Party and their intention to do so. But for the sake of the Right, they cannot vote in favour of our proposal now. In the setting, the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party say: ‘This does not mean, however, that the total pension will be reduced, but that the composition of the pension will be different.’ This is wrong. I pointed that out during the Committee's work, but I did not arrive at it, and so I had to present a document – as a protocol to the Committee's record from the last meeting, which shows the consequences of today's legislation by a figure that the government has not skillfully taken along – to show the main score in our case, namely that the occupational pension goes to zero when a worker is up to 72–73 years, if one has full earnings. I have some examples: Unni Bjellland, a lawyer, born in 1944, continued to work in the tax department until she was 73 years old. She thought she was doing a great service to society, saving the State pension fund for expenditure on occupational pension for six years, but when she was going to get a pension, the occupational pension was coordinated away – zero in public service pension! Result: only a people's pension, on about 50 pst. of wages and salaries. Svein Grindahl, born in 1947, employed in the Equation Court, worked until he was 70 years old. Public service provision was 49.5 years. He was halved the occupational pension with approximately NOK 50000 per year by working from 67 to 70 years. He gets a reduction of about $4,000 per month today. Hans Ravndal, born in 1949, is in a similar situation and loses approximately NOK 25 000 per year if he works until he is 70 years old. This has to be corrected. This is contrary to the objectives of the pension reform. Most pensioners have lived in good faith and have not been informed about the consequences of a public job after 67 years of age. I take up the proposal of the Central Party and, as a explanation of vote, I would like to say that the Central Party will vote in a subsidiary way in favour of the proposal of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e270	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e275	I also join the ranks of representatives who thank the case spokesman for the work on the matter. So I would like to say first of all that I thought it almost impossible to get a quote from Stortinget's pulpit, which I have at least not registered, that neither I nor others in the Left have spoken in any context – but leave it alone. Today’s legal text originates from the pension reform and the agreement entered into by the parties in 2009 on a public service pension. The reform of pensions is a result of a cross-political compromise between the social partners, with the benefits and disadvantages that the parties have to deal with. Today's legislation for members of public service pension schemes was born in 1944-1953, among others. the outcome of the 2009 parties' refusal to provide flexible service pensions and new flexible AFPs, and would rather pass on the current gross scheme and the current AFP. The parties prioritised those who wanted to leave the job before reaching the age of 67 at the cost of those who wanted to work after the age of 67. The consequence of this was that people who left work at 62 years of age did not pay for previous withdrawals in the form of a lower annual pension, while those who are in employment at 67 years of age did not receive any gain in terms of increasing the annual cumulative pension after compensation for retirement adjustment in the service pension. At the same time, there was an opportunity to counteract the lifestyle adjustment that was introduced, by enabling one to stand longer in work and by increasing flexibility to combine work and retirement. However, there is some simplification that the coordination rules do not apply to these years as a matter of law. And as the representative Wiborg said, this is an important and good move when society needs people to be more at work. In addition, I would like to add that it is often also about the quality of life of the individual who wants to work longer or combine work and social security. The fact that the coordination rules are perceived as unparalleled by those who wear the shoe and who have not had an overview of the consequences of the pension agreement for their own part, I understand that. In this way, I also share the opinion of the representative Wiborg that when the pension reform is now to be evaluated as a result of the government statement, it is natural that a problem raised in this Document 8 is part of that evaluation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e288	Retirement is never a single theme, and especially not for a beginner in the Committee who is to have an obligating post on behalf of the Christian People's Party. The rules are complicated, the opinions are many, and the consequences are often great, as we have been told in this matter. So this is no exception, and it has been with obligation I have tried to get into this case the best way. I would like to thank the President-in-Office for his contributions. The pension reform that entered into force in 2011 was the result of a cross-political compromise between the social partners. It is based on the balances between the advantages and disadvantages that the various parties have developed and have had to give and negotiate. Today's laws for members of public occupational pension schemes born in 1944-1953 include: a result that the parties in 2009 said no to flexible occupational retirement provision and new, flexible AFP and would rather continue the current gross scheme and the current AFP. The primary objective of the pension reform was to ensure a sustainable pension system. The background to the reform is a marked ageing of the population, which will face major challenges for the pension system and public finances. When the population's retirement pension was established in 1967, there were almost four working people behind each pensioner. This ratio had been reduced to 2.6 in 2007 and the ratio was expected to be further reduced to 1.8 without changing policies. The pension reform is therefore very important for the sustainability of welfare schemes, both because it will reduce the growth of pension expenditure as a share of gross domestic product as life expectancy increases and because it provides significantly better incentives for longer employment. With this in mind, there is a certain threshold for entering into and changing the reform. The reform of pensions has been described on several occasions as a political miracle. According to current state-scientific theories in the 1990s, it should not be possible to implement obvious constraints on the pension system through normal democratic processes. One important reason for success was good, cross-political compromises that were thoroughly established and anchored. So it has to be a threshold for us to go in and make changes to the individual element. It appears that the proposers and the department in this case have different views on the factual basis of the case. The Christian People's Party has received a factual basis, or rather a numerical basis, for what is perceived as injustice, and we understand part of that background. However, the letter of reply from the Council of State is both thorough and detailed in its review, and in the assessment of the information available, we have to assume that the department's presentation is quite correct, given the consequences of not providing the Storting with the correct information. On this basis, we believe that the proposal should not be supported. In the Granavolden platform, it is stated that the government will carry out an evaluation of the pension reform, and the Christian People's Party believes that this element must be included in it. This shall include an assessment of the development of real retirement and purchasing power, precisely in order to ensure a sustainable pension system for the future. Any system bias should therefore be considered in that round.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e303	Today’s public service pension is poorly adapted to a flexible population benefit with neutral exclusion rules. That is why I am pleased that, with the agreement of 3 March 2018, we will finally have the public service pension scheme in line with the principles of the pension reform. The purpose of the pension reform is to ensure a sustainable pension system so that future generations can also be guaranteed a pension to live on. It is therefore important that we support it and take care of the generational perspective, which is the very basic idea of the reform. Flexible and neutral retirement pension means that each individual bears the costs of early retirement in the form of a lower annual pension and that the individual receives the benefit in the case of deferred retirement in the form of a higher annual pension. The parties said no to flexible occupational retirement provision in 2009. They said no that the individual himself has to bear the costs of early withdrawal. The consequence was that today’s AFP and today’s gross scheme were continued. When the parties refused to bear the costs of early withdrawals, the then government, the government of Stoltenberg II, said no to government employees getting the full benefit on deferred withdrawals. Other things would also lead to significant and unfair discrimination between employees in the private and public sectors. The size was behind the proposals made by the government of Stoltenberg II, and the consequence was that people who left work at 62 years of age did not pay for previous withdrawals in the form of a lower annual pension, while those who are in employment at 67 years of age did not receive any benefit in the form of an increased annual total pension after they compensated for the retirement adjustment in the occupational pension. It would be clearly unreasonable if public employees, as the only group, were shielded from all the disadvantages, but got all the benefits of flexible occupational retirement. This is what would have been the result if the proposal for a representative we are now considering was adopted. The impact of pension reform on these year-olds would then only be an increase in expenditure, which is obviously not in line with the intention of reform, to ensure a sustainable pension system. Public service pension is a gross scheme which guarantees a total level of pension from the social security and occupational pension scheme. The assessment of whether there is an injustice in today’s legislation, as the proposers refer to, must therefore be based on whether an overall pension from social security and occupational pension schemes is in line with what could reasonably be expected after the adaptation of the coordination rules to new flexible population benefits from 2011, not by looking at the occupational pension scheme in isolation. As a precursor to the pension reform, from 2008 onwards, it was possible to absorb the population’s money from 67 years of age and continue to work. Thus, the youngest annual rates not covered by the pension reform were more favourable than before 2008, both in the private and public sectors. The assumption was that this would be replaced by neutral withdrawal rules from 62 years of age, and that this would apply mutatis mutandis to occupational pension schemes. However, the public sector parties refused to do so. The fact that a few years’ coals came out very well before the reform cannot justify all future coals being shielded from all the disadvantages, but at the same time get all the benefits of the pension reform. In the private sector, the annual budgets we are now discussing are not being discussed, compensated for a few years' hard coal coming out very well. Deferred after full-earnings did not provide higher annual benefits before 2011. Thus, the annual instalments referred to in this proposal will have the same total pension as they would have received before the adoption of the pension reform, a pension higher than the gross guarantee of 66 p.p., if they defer the withdrawal of the pension until they have compensated for the effect of the retirement adjustment. I find it hard to see that this is unreasonable. In my reply to the committee, I have shown that the proposal for a representative has a cost estimate of up to 14 billion. kr. The estimate of costs is not modified by the fact that part of the post-employment benefit obligations are pre-paid. It is not true that what has been included in the contribution, which does not come into payment, belongs to pension providers. Freed premium reserve provides lower costs for municipalities in the future. It is the municipalities that bear the costs when pension payments from the CLP or the municipal pension funds increase, and it is the municipalities that receive the savings when pension payments are reduced. The calculation piece will be the same regardless of when the cost is incurred. An economically and socially sustainable pension system is the best guarantee to ensure pensions also for future pensioners. We will not succeed in this if we continue to push the bill in front of us by constantly adjusting the legislation. I am pleased that the committee's recommendation is to reject the draft representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e325	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e330	What we hear all the time about this case is that people lose weight working longer, and the same thing is shown in a figure in the Central Party's protocol input, as the representative Lundtigen mentioned in his statement. But the Council's letter of reply to the committee refers to the composition of the pension that changes, not that the total pension goes down if you continue to work after the age of 67. Can the Council of State assure us that we have not misunderstood, and that there are no cases where you lose the total pension to continue working after the age of 67?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e335	I have provided more answers and feedback to various questions raised by the Committee, and I am firmly convinced that those who are not covered by the pension reform will receive the pension they were guaranteed to receive when they entered the labour market. 66 pst. is what the gross guarantee is about. On average, you get 71 pst. Large groups also get up to 80 pst. compensation. The question that we now have to ask ourselves is: Is it reasonable that some public employees should be able to get only the benefits of a pension scheme and none of the disadvantages, and thus perhaps get up to 90 pst. in retirement? I believe that this is wrong, and especially because this was very clear when the pension reform was discussed in 2008-2009. The organisations were quite clear that they did not want this reform for their employees. The disadvantages were clear that time too. That is why I am pleased that we have now reached an agreement with the organisations that are just rectifying this, and that it also makes it profitable for public employees to stand longer in the job.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e340	Thanks for the answer. I see the answer that no one is losing in the total pension to continue working after 67 years. That's the composition of the pension that's changing. So to my second question. The majority has already decided that we should have an overall review of the coordination rules this spring, and in today's case, the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party ask that we also receive an assessment of how we can strengthen the working line for public employees born in 1944-1962. It is a proposal that should be well within the Granavolden Declaration. It is a proposal that is fully in line with the opinions of the High Representative for Finance in the Newspaper a month ago. My question is: why do the Council of State and the Government parties not support that proposal by the Workers' Party and the SV?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e347	The government is concerned that it should both pay to work and be possible to do more work for older workers. We have changed several of the age limits in the Working Environment Act and also the occupational age limits, just to make it possible. What the representative here asks about is why the government cannot go away from the pension agreement that was concluded in 2008. I think that would be unfortunate, both because it is important that you stick to the agreements you made at the time, and because what is being discussed today was what the organisations clearly said no to, in full confidence about the disadvantages that would result. Organisations at the time were more concerned with maintaining the gross guarantee and ensuring that 66 pst could be obtained. for the oldest coals, in spite of the disadvantages that you saw would result. What you want now is that public servants can get benefits that no one else has, that you should be able to get off early without having any consequences, and that you should be able to work longer and get full pay for it. I believe it would be wrong that some public employees should be able to get an opportunity that no one else gets. It is also contrary to the pension reform and will push the bill in front of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e352	Thanks for the answer. I want to make it clear that my question and the proposal we are promoting in this case today do not make it a condition that one should break the pension agreement. If I didn't hear wrong, I think I heard representatives from several government parties in the pulpit saying that the issue we are now discussing is going to be part of the government's future evaluation of the pension reform. Then I can't quite get the connection in what the government council is now saying, against what the government's spokespersons have said. The difference between what they said, and what we're proposing, is probably the time when we get such an evaluation. So I repeat the question: why don't the government councils and government parties support our proposals when they're really of the same opinion themselves, but just want to do it a little later?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e357	Of course, we have to follow up the Granavolden point of evaluating all aspects of the pension reform. A number of evaluations are already being carried out today. We also need to have a greater evaluation of the reform, as it says in the Granavolden platform, which has been addressed today by many. The question that also needs to be asked is whether the Labour Party and the other parties are now willing to consider whether these annual coals should also be subject to the disadvantages of the reform. Is it considered that these annual credits should also be paid for early withdrawals, or is it considered that the benefits of an extended professional life should only be obtained? That's what's the question here. Should you just reap the benefits of a reform and no disadvantages, or do you think you should also have some of the disadvantages? The disadvantages of the reform, i.e.: the cost of early departure was clearly rejected by the organisations, and the benefits could not be obtained. I have not heard any feedback from the representative of Christoffersen today on how to get down to the bottom of the reform, but it could have been interesting in that case, at least as a guide to how the proposal should have been followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e362	The case concerns those who were born between 1944 and 1953, which is from 74 to 66 years old. It is complicated, and the Central Party and the Government have a completely different view of the facts, both in terms of the ratio of pensioners to the costs of pension funds. The interesting thing is that the Council of State letter of 10 December lacks a figure, and that is the important figure — a figure that shows that if you are in full-time employment beyond the age of 67 and up to the age of 72–73, the full-time pension will be zeroed out. That's what's called the coordination traps. My question then is: Does the Council agree that the occupational pension will be paid out if you are in this case on a job up to 72–73 years – and that it is perceived as a mistake?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e367	I don't know if that really is such a different view of the facts. I think we quite agree on the facts, but we disagree on what the consequences should be, what the conclusion is to be drawn. The representative Lundtigen believes that public employees should be able to benefit from a pension reform to which they themselves refused and to which they, as the only employees, should be allowed to do. We agree on that. For this with the so-called zero-pensioners. It's a little bit misleading, because you get a pension, that's just the distribution between the different elements that are affected. The gross guarantee is that you get 66 psts, and it's a little bit dependent on how long you're at work, what is the distribution between the population and the occupational pension. The new agreement of 3 March 2018 amends this. Now, if the Storting joins, everyone will have something left for their occupational pension, so the so-called zero-pensioners will terminate the new agreement that was concluded between the government and the parties last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e376	Then we've come one step further. Governments agree that occupational pensions go to zero if these occupational pensioners remain in employment until 72–73 years. There is disagreement whether the employee organisations agreed that this would be the case. What is special, however, is why the Council of State does not tell the Storting that this is how it works. And point 2: Why does the Council of State not tell all public sector employees that if they are in employment beyond the age of 67 and have full earnings in the occupational pension scheme, you lose occupational pension every day you stay?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e383	The distribution within the pension portfolio changes, slightly depending on the length of the job. Whether it's popular or occupational pension that will be the most important part depends on how long you're at work. This wasn't a secret that time either, it was quite familiar. The proposal for the representative, Mr Lundteg, would mean that you could get up against 90 pst. by standing longer at work. It's an advantage to get over 90 pst, but then you get rid of all the disadvantages of the system, and I think that's wrong. When the Stoltenberg II Government concluded this agreement with the parties, the UN Head of Unit Folkestad stated: ‘The government repeatedly proposed a number of variations of the application model. When the government finally understood that we would not accept the strike model, they chose to submit proposals for the continuation of today's pension scheme.» The organisations were very clear that they did not want these changes. I think that was stupid, and that was unwise – and the consequences we see very clearly now. That is what we are now rectifying in the agreement we entered into with the parties on 3 March last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e396	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e403	It's little incredible to sit and listen to this debate, and I'm trying to capture what the government parties really mean. The consequence of today's rules is that a group of pensioners who work in the public sector will lose occupational pensions for each day of work after age 67, up to the age of 72–73 years. That's the practical consequence of what's on the table today. This does not apply to all employees in the public sector, but to the annual budgets from 1944 to 1953, i.e. those that this year are from 66 years to 75 years. When I listen to the majority here, I'm a little bit unsure whether they think it's right that it should be, or not. When I hear the case rapporteur, I hear the rapporteur say that it is an intended effect. And when I hear the council of state in replication here, she defends with skin and hair system as it is today, that this should be so. But when I hear other representatives from the government parties, a few impressions may be that they believe that the system is the way it is today, perhaps not so sensible – that something should have been done about it, but that the time is not right. But then the age groups we're talking about here are age groups that are now moving into retirement and that are just in the election whether they're going to continue to work in the public sector, or whether they're going to retire. And today’s system is – unless it changes – a loss of occupational pension for every year you are at work. To the other opposition parties who are not on the proposal: I also think that one should think about what the representative Lundteg actually referred to earlier in this Chamber, that if a public employee ends up in his public sector job and instead lets himself be hired, then one does not lose the service pension that one has previously earned. But if you continue to work in the public sector on a permanent basis, you will lose an occupational pension day by day, year by year, until you are 72–73 years old. There is a clear unfairness in the system as it is today, which was not an intended effect, and I have to admit that when I discovered that that was how it was and was made aware of it, I thought it would be a broad connection that we should clean this up, among other things. based on the work line as a basic foundation of the pension reform. I am very surprised that the government parties do not support this, nor do other opposition parties today. I really hope that this can be corrected on a quick occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e416	I also took the floor in the first place for the sake of the Minutes, because the representative Per Olaf Lundtegen made some allegations from this pulpit, which is also not correct in the case of the Progress Party. I know that the representative Lundtigen has signed up, and I hope he can complain that he made statements that are not correct. As regards the view of the Advance Party on the matter, I made it clear in my article. I have to say, I think it's a little strange to hear the indignation of the Center Party here over a system that they themselves have created. The central party put in the government that made these rules. The centre party was among those who went through this in Stortinget. The party of progress voted against it. The centre party voted for it. But whatever happened in the past, it is important that the Granavolden platform provides a comprehensive review. I hope that the Central Party too can participate in a comprehensive review of the pension reform and look at which parts of it were reasonable, which parts of it were less reasonable, and whether there are some adjustments you should take or not take. I hope that the Centre Party can be involved in this, so that we can correct the mistakes and weaknesses of the reform that the Centre Party was behind, actually leads to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e425	I stand by what I said, that representatives of the Left and of the Progressive Party have said in writing to private individuals that they agree with the proposal of the Central Party, but in the interests of other parties, they cannot do so now. Furthermore, what is at the heart of the pension reform is the age regulation and the fact that the longer one is at work, the higher the payment from the social security per year, for one has a pension fund, and when that pension fund is divided into fewer years, the higher the annual social security pension. What we have in addition, and which we are now discussing, is the public service pension, either one is in the municipal or state sector. The purpose of the pension reform was that one should stay longer in work and that one should stimulate a development where one should also be more at work in the public sector. Toning Riise says it's an intentional wrong. No, I disagree. It is not expressed as an intentional effect that the longer the public employee is in employment, the less the occupational pension becomes. The service pension – the whole scheme – was and is considered to be one of the whole that makes working in the public sector attractive and economically interesting. No one has thought that one with the pension reform would negotiate the retirement pension if one is in a job beyond the age of 67. That's the nucleus. When the representative Toning Riise says that this is destroying the negotiating institute, it is strange that the representatives of the negotiating parties who were in the hearing did not say the same, but opposed the proposal. This is a reality that is not intentional and that we are now trying to correct. It is widespread because it both stimulates the workline and benefits pension providers. Its longer one is on the job, the fewer years it pays, while, according to our proposal, the occupational pension is said to be higher per year than it is with today's system, where it goes into zero, which is completely, completely unfair.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e436	I'm just going to make one last little attempt to understand what the government parties really mean when talking about the evaluation of the pension reform – whether it also includes the issue we are discussing here today. The representative, Wiborg, said in his first post that he was very pleased that the Granavolden Declaration had achieved an overall review of the pension reform. Then I interpret it to you that it was the Progress Party that, according to Wiborg, got it through. And Wiborg said in his first post that today's issue is included there. When I asked in reply with the Council of State why one cannot support the proposal of the Workers' Party and SV to include this issue in the overall issue of coordination that we get to spring, I got the impression that the Council of State did not support the inclusion of today's issue in an evaluation. So what I'm asking is: what do the government parties really mean – should you consider how to strengthen the public employees' workline until they reach the age of 72, or should you not consider how to strengthen the workline of that group, for which one then thinks to extend the age limit? But if you are going to consider how to strengthen the line of work of public servants up to the age of 72, why not wait, why not take it into account when we look at all aspects of the coordination rules in the spring? Then it seems nice that we don't have to look at the exact little bit that we're discussing here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e445	It is not hard to understand that for some groups in compromises where you have had to give and take, it can be things that are perceived as unfair. It is necessarily in the nature of a negotiation that there are some who have been prioritised, and some who have been prioritised down. We have a model in Norway where we are just adding a lot of responsibility to the social partners to review and prioritise and take these assessments. For the Biggest, the question of whether there is an injustice, whether it is someone who has not received it as they have been promised, or whether there are any laws, regulations or very clear intentions that have not been followed. And when I say it's an intentional wrong, that's what I'm aiming for. It is difficult to see that the compromises that have been adopted have not been followed. It is quite correctly described, even in our remarks, by which the representative Lundteg was concerned – to clarify it – that if you take out the popular and occupational pension at the same time, you will, after a while, be left with a result where, in the sense of the people's interest, you have eaten up the occupational pension and where you get a different composition. But you get at least the gross guarantee that you have been promised. And then you have the example that the Council of State also explained that if you start taking flexible retirement from the population at 67 years, but keep working, you'll be able to end up in a situation where you don't get the bonus by combining work and retirement at the same time, in terms of lower annual retirement. You get what you've been promised, but you don't get the bonus of combining a job and a pension, which you would have gotten if the parties had gone into flexible public service pensions. But we're going to go back to the same starting point, that the basis that we have the case here today is that the parties did a priority. It was said no to flexible public service pensions in 2009, and there are some consequences that have a negative impact on a group, but that is an intentional consequence. Finally, yes, we will have an overall review of the pension scheme. Everything has to be assessed. Then it is with the rug that also forms the basis for this matter. It's stupid to give some indication that there's going to be a conclusion one way or another. It has to be evaluated comprehensively, and I believe that this is also important in order to ensure the sustainability of the pension system.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e458	The proposition we're about to make in the spring is a follow-up to the agreement we made with the parties last March. The agreement we made with the parties last year was also out of vote. About 90 pst. by employees of the municipal sector and 80 pst. the agreement was accepted by the employees of the State sector. In the agreement, we also change some of what we are discussing today for some of the coals, but not to the extent that the proposal for a representative takes into account and asks for. This was because the parties did not weigh it enough, either in 2008 or 2018. What was most important for the parties was to be able to ensure early departure for those who wanted it, without the individual bearing the cost. There are some advantages to it, but the disadvantage is that you can't get a full count to stand any longer. It also shows the importance of introducing a pension reform in the public sector as well. When you adopted – I kept saying – half a reform, it was also warned about the consequences of it, and we now see the very clear consequences. The size could have overestimated the organizations at the time, but they didn't, they chose to follow the organizations because it was important for them to keep the guarantee that they had. But there were some major drawbacks to it. We see the disadvantages with full clarity now, also with the single examples pointed out by the representative, Mr Lundtigen. This will change with the new agreement that we were negotiated last year, but there will still be disadvantages for the annual budgets that are not covered by the reform. It was very conscious on the part of Stortinget that not all of the oldest coals were to be included in the reform. You push this in many ways in front of you for the coming generations. The agreement corrects part of it, if not all.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e469	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e474	What we've been told is that the Right believes this is an intentional wrong. It's an intentional injustice on the part of the government. One agrees that the system implies that the entire occupational pension will be eaten up if one is in employment for 72–73 years. The council says it's not going to be fixed in connection with the proposition coming to spring. All this happens at the same time as the matter is not informed to the people involved, so that they have had a clear choice. It is not stated that one with the occupational pension you had, which you thought you would keep, goes into zero, and that is contrary to the purpose of the entire pension reform. This is a strong thing. The centre party will continue to argue for what we have now done, because it is the only logical thing in the situation we are in, and all parties – I stress all parties – will serve on the proposal of the centre party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e483	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e499	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines be given with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e508	Let me first thank the Committee for its speedy and good work on the vote, and the proposers for promoting this proposal – which should have been unnecessary. The size adopted on 4 June last year significant restrictions on the use of hired labour, a tightening of access reserved to establishments bound by a national collective agreement, and an agreement with a trade union with the right to set off shall be made. It was a historical tightening, in the sense that it was the first occasion since the government change in 2013 that the Storting took action in an area where it was carrying completely wrong, and overstepped a government that repeatedly when they were challenged by the major problems that this led to in working life, refused to intervene. We were pleased that the Christian People's Party at the time was involved and formed a majority in order to take action that could help clean up Norwegian working life. At the time, there was also a real majority in favour of giving the Labour Inspectorate a mandate to oversee the new legislation. For one thing, good rules in the workplace are good rules, but for those rules to work, they depend on someone actually supervising the legislation. It goes without saying that if you do not have traffic controls along Norwegian roads, the speed will go up, and many will not care about the speed limits. The same is true in the workplace: we have actors who deliberately enter this market to make easy money, including criminals. But we also have a part of the working life that has gone into working with clean rentals, without having their own production. It is a wholly legitimate activity and, in many respects, necessary for production companies to avoid production stops. But we also have within this group actors who are deliberately trying to get away from the rules of the Norwegian working life. This is what we have seen, perhaps also because of the government's lack of follow-up to the desire to supervise the legislation, examples of after New Year's. We have then seen contracts designed in such a way that they will deliberately avoid both pension obligations for the employee and the new, tightened-up legislation relating to renting. These actors must be stopped. And when the government doesn't care, and you don't supervise the legislation, it's almost free. What we are left with is whether you have trust elected and trade unions in the individual workplace that can take that job. When the NHO was in consultation and expressed a negative opinion about the proposal of the Centre Party and the opposition, they felt that it should be the legal apparatus that resolves situations where workers feel that they have been given too poor conditions. It will destroy the rules of the labour market. It goes without saying that hired, often foreign, labour is among the weakest in fighting for their rights. This right will not be real – neither linguistic nor economic, these workers have anything to do with an employer who stands by almost all the power in such situations. If you claim from the right that it is the legal apparatus that has to deal with these matters, it is a mystery to me that not the right parties recognize at the same time that it was a big mistake to remove access to collective redress. This could have meant that these employees could actually have had a trade union that took their case in their name, so that you don't get stuck with the lua in your hand. Unfortunately, the case illustrates once again that the government has a cumbersome way of following the decision of the Storting, and – unfortunately again – that it is the workers who get hurt. Today, we are both going to try to put the Christian People's Party in charge of what they were doing in the previous round, and try to press in place that we can oversee the legislation. I'm addressing the suggestions that the Workers' Party is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e527	The representative of Arild Grande has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e532	The issue being debated today is based on the case of hiring and staffing which was started and promoted by the government in 2017, and the decision taken in 2018. After the new rules came into force on 1 January, one hears that certain employment agencies offer contracts with very low job rates. It was not the intention of the intrusions that was made. A recent survey of member companies in construction, carried out by NHO Service and Trade, shows, fortunately, a clear trend away from lower job rates. The right is pleased that the National Association of Construction, Norwegian Industry, NHO Service and Commerce and the NHO have now jointly taken an initiative to clean up job gaps down to 5 and 10 pst. in the construction industry. Such contracts are unacceptable and devastating for confidence in the manning industry. Working life must be safe and flexible for employees, through serious employers and effective tripartite cooperation. This is the basic plan of a good society, and it is crucial for a sustainable welfare society. Tripartite cooperation at its best provides security for jobs and a unique competitive advantage for Norwegian employment. At worst, the parties can prescribe the wrong medicine in their eagerness to clean up – and punish the whole class, when it is really the class bully that should have been removed. If we were only to interpret Norwegian working life from much of what is said in this room, we would see a dark working life. The truth is that nine out of ten people thrive at work, but there are also challenges and some actors that break the legislation. In all industries and industries we can find the bad examples, and we agree that these have to be taken. It is important that the regulatory changes made on 1 January are properly enforced, and that action is taken to improve control and enforcement in order to reduce illegal renting. The thing is that this work is already being done by the Department, but once again we see that the left-hand side will anticipate an ongoing process. In the debate there are even some who, after barely two months of new rules, have opened up that they will ban the manning industry. It believes the Right is to prescribe the wrong medicine. The right will warn against voting in favour of today's proposals for representatives. These proposals will involve a major shift in labour supervision and a high level of consideration should be given to taking an informed decision. In line with the investigative instructions, the measures in question are to be investigated and assessed, and it is also important to involve the social partners in order to promote their views. During the hearing, it was found that an extension of the role of the Labour Inspectorate in the area of rental concerns fundamental issues relating to the distinction between private and public law enforcement, and that for that reason it should be clarified and investigated. On the right, the investigation already in progress will await and identify as many consequences as possible before the decision is taken. The core of the Norwegian model is high employment, well-being for everyone and an organised working life. Trust, dialogue and interaction are important elements. Let's not now take shortcuts about necessary and started processes. Once again, we see that the department has started a job. Once again, we see a left-hand side that will jump over this process. Now we have to spend the necessary time investigating and following the process that's started so that we don't give the patient the wrong medicine.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e553	Had it not been unparliamentary to say, I would have said that this is a very special proposal. The majority decided as late as June, when we discussed the matter, among other things. rent, that the government should draw up proposals for a control function in order to be able to supervise, take decisions and impose obligations on establishments using rentals and, where appropriate, violate the new provisions of the Working Environment Act. Nevertheless, the Centre Party chooses to re-submit a proposal for a representative to this effect in December, two months after the Stortinge meeting again after the summer, and is well aware that the government will and will make such a proposal as soon as it has been determined, as required by the investigation instruction. It may not be unknown to the Centre Party that a control function requires investigation and that it cannot be omitted. Consequently, such a process takes a little longer. It appears to be inconvenient to promote proposals which do not contribute anything but to give more work to both the committee and the government, when the Stortinget has already instructed the government to come back with proposals. That aside. There can be no doubt that we are all concerned that working life should provide safe and good jobs. We are all also concerned that we should work for our employers to be serious and that the unprofessional ones should be opened up. For this reason, government parties have made more efforts to combat labour crime through their own strategy, a number of a-crime centres, interdisciplinary cooperation, interterritorial cooperation, sectoral programmes, but also to clarify the framework for hiring out, tightened the understanding of what it means to be employed firmly and underlined that the general rule on fixed-term employment is established. In the previous debate on rentals, the opposition has drawn a picture of a rental industry that contributes with modest 1-2 pst. of all annual works, as an industry full of unprofessional operators, and that any employer using rentals for periods is unprofessional and cynical. It's not like that. They have also wrongly tried to create the impression that renting is a major problem, and that it runs counter to the general rule of fixed employment. It's not like that either. The Labour Environment Act provides a clear and good framework for ensuring a secure and predictable framework for employers, permanent employees and temporary workers. That's still the way it should be. It's important now to make sure that we have a control function in place, as Stortinget has already decided. I trust that the government will make proposals for such a function as soon as the investigation is ready.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e564	The centre party has worked a long time to clean up the manning industry. We've come a little way. Why have we done this? There are two reasons for this: we need to ensure fair competition between private companies, and we need to ensure proper conditions for workers – two clear points that are widespread in the Norwegian community. We have always had support from the trade union movement and from the National Association of Construction Industries, and we are very grateful for that. The Land Association of Construction, BNL, is one of the most affected, and they understand how this works if you don't have clear rules that give you fair competition. I was very proud that we managed to get a majority in this room together with the Christian People's Party, because the Christian People's Party is fully aware that a well-organized working life is a prerequisite for a safe family life. That context is clear, and that was an important prerequisite for the decision. We managed to get a definition of ‘fixed employment’ through a new section 14-9 of the law. [[1]] We managed to do the form of employment ‘fixed employment without pay between assignments’ unlawfully, which was announced to the NHO Service and Trade, and the government did not get a majority for the special legal support of the personnel companies so that they could be employed temporarily through a new section 14-9 g. [[2]] There were very important majority decisions in this Chamber. In the case of rentals from activities which are intended to be rented out, i.e. temporary agency, it is provided for in Sections 14 to 12. According to § 14-12, manning companies may use their permanent employees people to meet the need for temporary employees of production companies according to § 14-9(a)(e). [[1]] [[2]] «At the request of the manning undertaking, the lessee shall disclose whether the contract relates to a Vicariat. It is now the text of the Act. In addition, Section 14-12 of the Working Environment Act was tightened up, so that the trade union with the right to set-aside under the Employment Dispute Act of the lessee company has to approve the use of the manning agency. [[2]] And in the law, it goes on to say: ‘The establishment and the manning undertaking shall, at the request of the Labour Inspectorate, provide evidence that the lease-in activity is bound by a collective agreement concluded with the trade union with the right to set-aside and that an agreement has been reached with the elected representatives referred to in the first sentence.’;» In other words, summarised: Manning companies have to employ in a permanent capacity – full-time or part-time. If there is a part-time job, the employment contract must say how much work is to be done each month, where it is to be worked, and when it is to be worked – because the permanent employees who do not have a full job have an overview of their employment obligation, their income and thus also their ability to take a job elsewhere in order to get a total income that you can live on. Furthermore, in the view of the Centre Party, it is clear that 5-percent contracts are contrary to the Working Environment Act as we adopted it with effect from 1 January 2019. 5 percent contracts – what is it? Well, it's a job break that means you're going to work one day a month. One day per month is about 5 pst. Such contracts are contrary to what we decided, and what is now the case is the amendment of the Working Environment Act § 18-6, so that the entire section 14-12, which concerns the manning industry, and § 14-12 a, which applies to the equal treatment of pay and working conditions in the case of hiring out of manning companies, will be given legal basis to the Labour Inspectorate to check that they are being followed up. Margaret Hagerup says you have to figure this out. It's been ten months. One has had great opportunities to implement it, and it has not happened. Which control function is to perform this other than the Labour Inspectorate? The Working Environment Act and the Labour Inspectorate are almost like Siamese twins and are closely linked. It would be a deludement to involve others in that matter. And finally, we're talking about the left-hand side. I just want to make it clear that the center part is the green part. The left side is the red areas. That's the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e588	We have a working life in Norway, which is being increasingly pressured by temporary workers from the employment agency, and a rather unwieldy situation with Eastern European workers who come here and work in short-term jobs without us being able to fully control the employment situation. In order for working life to be both safe and fair, the Labour Inspectorate must be included as one of the pillars of the travel agency. The Labour Inspectorate must be able to supervise the conditions regulated by the Labour Environment Act and, with the latest changes, the Government was also required by the Storting to find out how this should be done. Today, March 12, 2019, the new rules have been in force for two months and twelve days. This is long enough for a practice to take place. I think it is very unfortunate that we introduce new rules without the Labour Inspectorate being able to attend and make sure that these rules are followed. A few weeks ago, I spoke with a trade union representative who said that they had asked Adecco in advance of the introduction of the rules – Adecco, a leading player in the industry – if they had intended to enforce the new law according to their intentions. Then Adecco replied that they were willing to do it, but then they would first have a guarantee that all the other players in the industry did the exact same thing. Another vote of confidence, from the EL and IT Federation, told me this weekend that they had asked Adecco only to add 100 pst. the position of the lessee in his enterprise. To this they had replied that it was not to recover; they had no added to 100 pst. position to rent out. It just doesn't work properly as it is today. The entire trade show now reports that this is like starting a bicycle ride with only one wheel. The fact that tradesmanship and the law itself should ensure that the law is enforced is not enough. This I mean very clearly shows how the government itself has trained the decision from last year, which the opposition, including the Christian People's Party, adopted. We got several figures against the government, and the law was changed, but when the government in the same line was asked to establish a control function to oversee the provisions of the law on living and working conditions, and the law has come into force, nothing has come from the government about the time it comes, and it's not in Prop either. 12, which we just got delivered. This clearly undermines the will of the Greatness. We can't have it like this. In addition, we have put in place a proposal to reintroduce collective redress. It is quite appropriate that trade unions get additional tools that they can use in the fight against unprofessionalism. It simply needs to be stronger in order to achieve a safe and fair working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e603	The Christian People's Party is a party occupied by employees' rights. We showed that, among other things: for the treatment of Prop. 73 L for 2017-2018 on changes to the Working Environment Act. The Christian People's Party wants an orderly working life and believes it is a basic idea – a basic plank – in the Norwegian model. Through tripartite cooperation, we have managed to create a world-class working life in many areas, including: in the case of pay and working conditions and HMS. But that doesn't mean that everything is perfect. Sometimes we will react when there is injustice and things that we cannot accept. That is what the Christian People's Party did before the summer when the restrictions were adopted, and that is what we stand by. At the same time, it is important that things are done thoroughly. The ministry is now working to follow up the request decision of Stortinget on 4 June last year. The proposal for a control function needs to be examined in a good and thorough manner so that the measures in question can be designed and implemented appropriately. Any control function must be implemented in such a way that both the authorities and individuals affected are well prepared for the change, i.e. predictability is the keyword. This work is already well underway in the department, and the Christian People's Party will follow it closely. As far as the proposal for a representative is concerned, I would say that impatience is good. We also share it in the Christian People's Party and look forward to what is coming. But imagination is limited when this matter is already under way. I wish the opposition had also thought about it. Furthermore, it must also be said to be a little side to the Norwegian tradition of adopting a legislative change through representative proposals without investigation and without wide consultation. I will not claim that this has not happened, but that is not the main rule. Furthermore, it is particularly important to be able to do so when a work is being done at the same time in the ministry on the same matter. On this basis, the Christian People's Party will not support the proposal, and we will await the outcome in the ministry. But the Christian People's Party supports effective and targeted action against crime and undeclared work. In the case of recruitment agencies, they must have clear rules on pensions, HMS and working conditions – and have clear obligations. Regarding the request decision: As stated by the representative Lundtigen, part of the reason for the Christian People's Party was that for families, for children and for communities, it was very important to get in place. What's going to be under supervision, and what might have to be in a legal system, I expect the ministry to investigate properly, so that we avoid grey areas for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e614	It is now nine months since Stortinget decided to tighten the rent. Since its decision, the manning industry and the NHO have spent time circumventing the new laws. The industry has shown that it will not set itself up, and we know that this is an industry that is already characterised by a lot of crimes. Therefore, the Labour Inspectorate must have the authority and resources to enforce the new rules. It's urgent, we've seen more headlines in the media lately. At the NRK we can read about the fact that the agency offers part-time contracts down to 5 and 10 p.m., without any plan for the employee to work and have a free time. People who have worked full-time in the past are now offered part-time contracts, and so it happens in NHO's own member companies, in the so-called serious companies. According to the Joint Alliance, the manning industry is sabotaging the new rules adopted by the Stortinget. The NHO answers that these are only single examples, but from the trade union movement we get reports of a flow of requests from members asking for help because they have received new contracts after the changes in the law with much less working time. In Dagbladet we can read about the fact that several trade unions have surveyed the rental conditions in one of Petter Stordalen's many hotel construction sites. In a single week they found 185 offences – in one construction site. On the Free Trade Movement we can read about Polish Szymon who was employed in the Pride crew. He worked under difficult conditions and warned about the lack of protective equipment. The day after, the agency provided protective equipment, but Szymon was no longer offered a job. From a colleague he then heard that the proud crew no longer had a mission to him at the construction site or anywhere else. He is among those who, after New Year's, have a contract of 5 pst. So he has nothing to say to the employer. These contracts are an obvious circumvention of the rules and are contrary to the Storting's wish for more predictability and more security for staff in the manning industry. So this happens after the Storting has decided to tighten up the lease provisions, and it comes to the top of the other problems and crimes that we know characterize the manning industry from before. It is the Labour Inspectorate who has the primary responsibility to ensure that the Work Environment Act is complied with in Norwegian working life. They now have to be responsible for ensuring that labour renting is carried out in line with Norwegian law. It's the NHO opposite, and it's kind of eye-catching. So they are asking employees to take the cases of illegal rental into court, private law. In other words, the weakest in working life, who lack job protection, who lack safety for their job, must take the fight against the employment agencies on their own. It's a fight that everyone knows and understands that they're doomed to lose. That's why the NHO also supports that model. The town of Krogstad in the Joint Union says the following to the Free Trade Movement: ‘If the opening rules are so difficult to enforce, a ban must be imposed on the entire manning industry.’ It is completely in agreement with Red. As a minimum, the Labour Inspectorate must be able to supervise the rules governing the rental of workers and provide for fines and penalties such as fines and fines. In our view, breach of the lease-in provisions should lead to the termination of lease-in relationships between companies. We have to have immediate and real sanctions so there is a risk of breaking the law, because today it is riskless to break the laws of Stortinget in this field. Government parties turn the deaf ear to. You let the offenders continue by voting against the proposal today. What we look at in the media, and what we get from reports from the trade unions, strengthens our faith that our proposal to ban the recruitment agencies is absolutely necessary, because nothing indicates that this industry can be regulated to be serious. It is by definition unprofessional, by definition based on unemployment, based on the fact that people have lua in their hands. That is why the industry must be banned.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e643	The government announced in the spring of 2018 that it would start work with a view to improving the enforcement of the rental rules. This was mentioned in the proposal for a law on permanent employment and access to rental. A request decision was taken in June to ask the government to submit proposals for a control function for this purpose. The Ministry explained in the budget proposal last autumn that one would return to the Stortinge in an appropriate manner. As mentioned in my reply to the committee, the work of investigating this is well under way in the ministry. We agree that there is a need to improve control and enforcement of the rental rules. However, it is both a good practice and a requirement for legal changes to be investigated and heard. There is an investigative instruction for the State to which the Ministry must deal when examining State measures, including legislative proposals. An extension of the supervisory authority of the Labour Inspectorate in the lessee area affects, inter alia: fundamental issues relating to the distinction between private and public law enforcement. This raises various issues that need to be addressed and addressed. For example, the issues that had to be assessed include: the extent to which such cases may continue to be pursued under private law if the employee so wishes and the relationship between this and official supervision of the rules. The impact of the measures in question shall also be investigated and assessed, including: administrative and economic consequences. In this case, a law requiring a change in the competence and an extension of some of the competences would be quite significant, and could also have a clear economic impact, in particular on public use of resources and priorities. It is also important to involve those who will be affected by measures in the process. The proposal under consideration shall be open to a general consultation and the Ministry shall also engage in a dialogue with the social partners, which may also make its views known in the course of its work. In other words, the proposal for a control function to enforce the rental rule must be well investigated so that the supervisory board can also be properly designed and that the authorities and individuals affected are well prepared for current changes. The government intends to send out a hearing note in the case during the spring of 2019. So it is not right, as is claimed by the minority in the setting, that today you are in a ‘lawful room’ as regards the enforcement of the rental rules. Violation of the rules may be pursued by the individual, with the support of any trade unions and, if necessary, through the courts. In addition, the supervisory authority has already linked to some aspects of the legislation. The legislative proposal before us today should not be adopted until it has been finalised. Nor should the proposal on collective redress be adopted in the event of breach of the rental rules. The rules on the right of appeal of trade unions in the event of illegal rental were in force for the period 2013-2015. The system was highly debated, and several pointed out that it violates some of the basic principles of our legal system. The scheme was also very little used. The size should now await the work of the government on a public oversight system with the rules of the lease-in.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e664	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e669	This issue is not being deleted. It has been discussed for many years, and the government has had nine months to put in place a control function. Had the government been eager in this matter and wanted the same thing as the majority of the population on 4 June 2018, I think we had seen a completely different progress in the matter of getting a control function in place. This is probably about the fact that the government has not been particularly willing to recognise the problems that have been caused by rentals, and that it is therefore not particularly interested in ensuring that those rules are followed. I hear both Hagerup and the Council of State warning that the proposal now in place is being adopted, but claims that it is being worked on. Does the government intend to propose precisely to provide the Labour Inspectorate with the necessary powers to supervise the legislation or to assess other types of control functions?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e676	It is in the interests of the government to make proposals to strengthen the control function of the Labour Inspectorate. We already said in the proposition we ourselves suggested last year that we wanted to clarify this. But there are several sides to this. For example, is it important to look at the following: if the Labour Inspectorate is to take over the judicial functions of the courts at present, should it still be possible for workers to go through the courts despite the fact that it is the Labour Inspectorate who has taken over the judicial functions in many ways? Is it possible to do this in a simpler way? Do you have to add this to an easy one, for example, that might make it less bureaucratic? There are several things you actually have to look at, and I think it's important to investigate. It may be that the Labour Inspectorate will take over the control functions of the courts, but then we will have to look at the consequences of doing so. We're investigating this now. We are committed to strengthening the control functions of the rules of entry. The Labour Inspectorate already has control functions in part of the legislation. Then we will present a consultation note during the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e685	I then interpret your answer to the fact that several control mechanisms are being considered. This must mean that for a proposal that is not being consulted, it will take some time both for the hearing bodies to be able to make their views known and for the government to assess it. The Council of State also points out in its statement that it may incur administrative costs. If it becomes the Labour Inspectorate, it must clearly increase their resources, which means that the Council of State may not be able to submit a proposal before the 2020 budget. Does the Council of State see that it is realistic to make a proposal that would allow a control function with the Lease Code to be established before 1 January 2020?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e690	Yes, we consider all aspects of extending the control authority of the Labour Inspectorate – that is what is contained in the investigation manual itself – and in that case find out: What is the best way to do the control function, what are the powers to do, and in that case what should the homes look like? That is what lies in the entire investigation manual, and I think that more people in this room will also be able to easily see that there are different challenges and issues that need to be discussed. Any change in the competence of supervision that would result in an increase in resource use would have to be provided for. In that case, it is up to the Storting to obtain the appropriations necessary for the extension of any control function. But what we're now going to suggest, we have to come back to. That's what we're now investigating. We didn't draw any conclusion on this. In that case, it will emerge from the consultation note that we have announced to come during the spring or summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e699	The Labour Inspectorate has a legal basis for complying with the Work Environment Act. What we are talking about now is to extend the home to sections 14 to 12, which relate to renting from activities that are intended to provide rental services, i.e. temporary employment, and sections 14 to 12 (a), to equal treatment of pay and working conditions in the case of rentals from temporary employment agencies. Pending this investigation, I would like to ask the Council of State whether she agrees with the following: Manning companies have to employ permanently. If there is a part-time job, the contract of employment shall indicate how much work is to be done each month, where it is to be worked, and when it is to be worked. Furthermore, 5-percent contracts contravene what the Storting adopted with effect from 1 January 2019.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e706	First of all, I am pleased that the representative Lundtigen now also confirms that we are not now operating a «legal room», that the Labour Inspectorate already has a control function with regard to the Work Environment Act and also this type of legislation, and that the question we are now discussing is to extend the competence of the Labour Inspectorate to get something that they do not have today. It is good that we can at least agree on that. Yes, in the proposition we made for Stortinget last year, we were clear on what fixed employment would mean, that there would be predictability of how much to work, where to work, and when to work. That was the basis for the proposition we made. In terms of the 5-percentage size, it may be legal, but as described in some of these examples that we've seen, it's probably illegal. But it is quite possible for a student to work legally four hours one Saturday of the month, but then it should be clear that that is what you should do.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e715	In that case, we have at least received the words of the Council of State – and both trade unions, staff companies, employers' organisations and others – that it should be fixed, and that if it is a part-time job, it should be stated how much work is to be done each month, where it is to be worked, and when it is to be worked. I have not said that it is «a void room», but there is «a void room» today in the case of the Labour Inspectorate and § 14-12 and § 14-12(a). That's where there's a ‘poor room’. When the Council of State talks about the possibility of any other body coming in here than the Labour Inspectorate, e.g. a name, and that there is a distinction between the follow-up to private and public law here, is it really the opinion of the Council of State that they are employed in recruitment agencies – which in this case are sometimes part-time employees, which is the weakest of the weakest party in the world of work – should go to private law? Is the government serious?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e722	First, on the job rate: it is not allowed to employ one in a 5-percent job if the job rate is 70, 90 or 100 pst. The point of the contract is that it should specify how much to work, when to work and where to work. It is to ensure employees the predictability that we believe employees should have. So to the extent that someone is employed at low job rates and works de facto more, it is not allowed. But you're allowed to work 5 pst. if that is what has been agreed in advance, e.g. for students and others. Yes, there is a distinction between private and public law follow-up today. That distinction has always been in the Labour Inspectorate, it is nothing new. That was also the case when the representative Lundtegen himself was in government. That is what we are now investigating, how and how the competence of the Labour Inspectorate in this area should be changed. Should the Labour Inspectorate have jurisdiction over the enforcement of private-law agreements? In this case, how is this to be implemented? Should private individuals still be able to go to court or not?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e729	I think the Council of State could need a little walk into the real world and see how it's going on in the world of work. People don't get fired if they demand their rights – the pay they claim, the protective equipment they actually have the right to – they only get a very simple message from the boss: ‘No more jobs for you’. There are no more jobs, they are ‘out of business’ if they raise their voice and demand their rights. It is the reality of many staff in employment agencies that they are, in fact, without rights and have no legal certainty because they have no job security. I'm taking this up in the newspaper today, and then the answer from the Secretary of State is that this is talking about what fits my so-called ideological worldview. I wonder if the Council of State sees the series of examples of people getting tiny part-time contracts with small fractions – is it just bluff and ideology, or is it a reality in the world of work that it happens now?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e737	Yes, we've seen examples in the media that employees have got what is probably illegal contracts. As I said in a previous reply to the representative Lundtigen, you are not allowed to enter into a contract on the 5th pst. if the working volume is in reality 70, 90 or 100 pst. Indeed, it is the real scope of work to be reflected in the contracts. Nor do we want to be able to operate in Norwegian working life. But it's a long way to go from saying that you don't want unprofessional actors, to ban all actors, regardless of whether they're unprofessional or not. It is a fact today that Norwegian working lives, both private and public, depend on periods, for various reasons and legitimate reasons, on being able to hire labour. But the contracts have to be serious, they have to be real, and they have to reflect both the amount of work, where to work, and what to work with. I think that is absolutely crucial. Then, of course, we share the same commitment to a serious, safe and good working life in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e744	Replicate cord shift complete. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e751	It is little incredible to be a witness to this matter. Here, nine months ago, the Stortinget has provided all the necessary restrictions on the employment environment law relating to the hiring of labour – an unsustainable situation in Norwegian labour and where political action has been absolutely necessary, as the majority in this case has done, among other things. with amendments to the Working Environment Act. So we experience a government that has not made sure to have full pressure to put into practice what is the Storting's will by providing the Labour Inspectorate with the means to comply with the provisions of the Work Environment Act. There is reason to ask why this is so — especially in view of the fact that the country’s Prime Minister himself has stated that the restrictions imposed by the Labour Environment Act on rentals have been her greatest defeat as Prime Minister. We are now talking about nine months since this decision was made. At the time of the decision, the government had six months to follow up the control function requested by the Stortinget – to supervise, order and take individual decisions relating to the new rules. The government had six months before the new rules came into force to ensure that control functions and supervision were in place. It must be possible to ask questions about why it is not possible to say that the Labour Inspectorate also in this field, linked to Sections 14-12 and 14-12(a), such as: is hired by a crew member, shall be able to exercise supervision and control in the same way as for other provisions of the Working Environment Act. There is a need to strengthen the Labour Inspectorate by what kind of legislation they have to follow up on the fact that we have a clean and serious working life in Norway, but also to strengthen the Labour Inspectorate by the necessary means. There is a need to implement what is in this case. The government has had plenty of time to make a suggestion even if it had been a priority. And it's with the background of lack of follow-up by the government we've seen need to promote this proposal. It has been quite in place, and I hope the Storting will give its support to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e762	This case clearly shows a government that refuses to face the challenges of working life and refuses to use the tools that are actually available to clean up where there are problems. That's the way it was in the whole rental business when the government just said: we have to wait and see – we have to see the development over time, in fact, the working life is largely excellent for most people, so why do these drastic grips, while the trade movement and the serious businesses that were hit by the competition from the unprofessional asked the Storting to take action. That's what Stortinget did, and that's why we got the historical contractions in place. We see a reprisal of this now through the government's inability and willingness to both follow up on the Storting intention, and – even worse – to give the professional movement and the serious companies in Norway the hand bill it is that someone should actually supervise the legislation. In fact, at the turn of the line, the Council of State has now confirmed that any new control function will be in place at the earliest from 1 January 2020, one year after the entry into force of the Code. It is not exactly something that bears witness to a powerful government. It's interesting to hear the Christian People's Party's view of this conclusion. Was it this Christian People's Party that was proposed when one skipped from really being ready to adopt a control function already last summer? Or does the Christian People's Party feel that they are led behind the light of good words from the government? We are ready to adopt the proposal as it stands today. If necessary, if this leads to the need for increased resources for supervision, the government has the full opportunity to come back to the Stortinge with proposals in the revised budget in a very short time. The most challenging thing about the government's lack of will is: what should the workers do in the meantime, those who are covered by these unprofessional contracts, those who feel that their working conditions are significantly impaired? That's where the NHO says, and the government obviously follows them far away, that they get to go to court. In addition, when collective redress has been removed, it goes without saying that the government reintroduces the lua into the hands, because the individual foreign hired worker remains standing alone without real opportunities to try his case. This will be devastating to the labour market. We still have to fight to have equivalent relationships, and then we also have to have someone to supervise the legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e777	This has been a difficult matter for the government, one has always opposed. As the rapporteur for the June amendments, I spent an incredible amount of time looking at the whole thing here and proposing decisions that in detail provided for a well-organised working life, while meeting the needs of the companies. It was a big job. The purpose was to clarify relationships. The government opposed this. We got the changes, and it was not in my mind that the government was going to oppose that the Labour Inspectorate would be allowed to follow up the changes related to §14-12 and get permission to follow up §14-12(a). The situation today is that there is a ‘poor room’ in the sense that there is no public body, employment supervision or others authorised to follow up §§ 14-12 or 14-12(a). It's a problem, as in all areas of society, that not everyone is kind. Some are moving systematically at the border, even across the border. That's why we have the public that's going to make sure you stay within the bounds, and that's what this case is about. Having a control function where there is to be a follow-up to private law without collective redress, I would almost call a joke when we know the conditions of power in this working life with regard to the weakest. If someone here is talking about appointing a new name, a new body, I would say it's reasonably inappropriate when we have a work supervision that's in the midst of demanding follow-up questions already, and that they're dealing with. But they need to have greater resources and more professional competence in order to follow up overall the Working Environment Act as we now see the development of working life. Therefore, the Labour Inspectorate must be upgraded, both professionally and financially. But I've learned that the most important thing is that the Storting must make clear decisions. We must make clear decisions on the manning industry, clear decisions that the manning industry should be employed firmly, clear decisions that if a part-time worker is to be employed, the amount of work to be done in the month, the salary to be paid, where to work and when to work. If the Storting makes such clear decisions, the need for follow-up becomes less, because we say from the outset what the rules of the game apply, and that is crucial.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e788	I am pleased that the Christian People's Party's position on this matter has been noted. We stand by the impatience that has been promoted, that we stood for last year when this was adopted, and that we follow up. I would like to remind you that the Christian People's Party joined the government and has been in government for a month and a half, well and well. Of course, we will follow closely the progress of this development. Grande asks if the Christian People's Party feels led behind the light. We don't. This is taken up and followed further by the Christian People's Party. But does the opposition believe that we should go from a proposal for a representative and right to a change in the law? It hasn't been tradition. Shall we do it without an investigation? Shall we do it without a broad consultation? There may be a total shift of the Labour Inspectorate, with judicial functions, which means that if we are to create predictability for employees, for the rest of the world of work, it takes time. As I said, the Christian People's Party has been in for a month and a half, and we will follow this further. Having said that, I remember from earlier periods that a thorough investigation that takes up towards one year, when the matter is complicated enough, is nothing new.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e797	The size of the apartment was already tightened last year, with several people in it. The Ministry is working to follow up on what is to be controlled and enforced, inter alia: illegal rentals and rentals in general. Such legislative changes, which have been highlighted here, shall be examined and heard, in particular in relation to fundamental issues, such as: the distinction between private and public law enforcement, which would affect an extension of the role of the Labour Inspectorate in the lessee area. For us who are actually concerned with working and real tripartite cooperation, it is important that the parties are also involved in that work. It is not as stated here that it is speculated in the lowest possible percentage of the job after the conversion. A recent survey shows that about 1.7 pst. of the employment contracts entered into by the establishments which were included, were less than 5 pst. We want to raise that, of course. Less than 9 pst. is less than 20 pst, but more than half of the contracts concluded have more than 50 pst. the term of the contract. The media naturally report more on what is anomaly and the exception in Norwegian working life, fortunately, than what is actually the frequency of working life, and thus we get the opportunity to address what we think is unfortunate. As far as collective redress is concerned, it was not only a tool that was not used in Norway, but the Right has been against this because we believe it is fundamentally worrying that others can take legal action on my behalf and in my name without my consent. On the other hand, the Right has said that we want to make wage recovery part of the free legal aid system, in order to strengthen the fight against unprofessional actors. It would strengthen the employee's rights, but could perhaps weaken the unions, and that's the Workers' Party against it. What we believe is that this proposal for a representative, among other things. anticipates the legislative process under way, which has not been completely unknown in many of the cases in this committee. And with such a comprehensive change of Labour Inspectorate, this should be better monitored and better assessed. These include: because in a well-regulated working life, the Labour Inspectorate is so important to so many people in so many cases that we do not change an institution as important as the Labour Inspectorate, assign it to judicial functions and/or make changes to the Norwegian judicial system of less than nine months. It is not an expression of ‘a void space’. It's also not leading anyone behind the light. It is an expression that we have a tripartite cooperation to be heard, an oversight to be operational, and a rule of law to function.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e808	The representative Per Olaf Lundteg has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e813	It is established that the Labour Inspectorate is not authorised to check sections 14-12 and 14-12(a) of the Working Environment Act. It implies that on the follow-up side it is ‘a void space’. In the case of collective redress: the government is skeptical, even strongly against it, and is therefore in favour of this being the weakest party to enter into a private-law dispute with its employer. Everyone understands that it doesn't work fairly. And finally, a reflection: it's interesting in this room to find out that it's the Council of State – and only the Council of State – from the right-wing party that defines what is the condition of a fixed part-time job in recruitment agencies, that is, how much one should work, what payment, where and when. No representative from the government parties confirms the Council of State's understanding. It's a weakness.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e822	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e838	At the request of the Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that – within the allocated speaking time – up to five rows of replies are given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e847	As rapporteur for this Red proposal, I will begin by thanking the Committee for its good cooperation. The issue of sexual harassment in the workplace is important, and this has been shown in the media in recent years. The Committee has long agreed that sexual harassment is a problem of equality and a social problem, and that employers have a responsibility to prevent it. In addition to that, the committee separates layers. This is essentially a proposal of a representative who has the intention of getting further involved in the work of sexual harassment in the workplace by clarifying the responsibilities and duties of the employer in the field. The government party sees itself as usually satisfied with its own work and plans for work in the field and announces that the work they have done will be shown to the Stortinget in the spring of 2019. In the opposition, we have gathered on four proposals that we think are necessary in order to get on with the work in this area. In addition to this, SV, Red and the Working Party have come up with a more comprehensive proposal that we will ask both the Center Party and the Government Party to evaluate very carefully. The reason for this is that we now have to move on in order to get ongoing decisions in a direction that can be corrected in what for a Joint Committee is seen as a social problem. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for further changes to the Labour Environment Act and related regulations to clarify the responsibilities of the employer to prevent and prevent sexual harassment at work.’ With that, I take up all the suggestions in this case that SV is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e867	Then the representative Solfrid Lerbreck has drawn up all the proposals that SV is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e872	I would like to begin by saying that the proposal we are debating today is relevant, current and contains realistic, feasible measures that will take us a few steps further in the fight against sexual harassment. In our position, the Committee refers to Fafo's report of 2017, on sexual harassment in the workplace, which examines the extent of the members of the Joint Association in hotels and restaurants and the members of the Trade Union in health and care. This report should be read by all those concerned with a fair working life, the balancing of disproportionate power and security in everyday life. According to the survey, about one in five – i.e. 20 pst. by hotel and restaurant workers and health care workers — experienced sexual harassment at work in the last three years. The consequences of sexual harassment at work can be enormous. Many experience dissatisfaction, mental distress, a desire to quit the job and a sense of insecurity even in leisure time. This clearly shows that the fight against sexual harassment is also a struggle for freedom. The fact that workers suffer mental distress and become unsafe in their lives deprives them of their freedom. That's why it's encouraging to read that only 9 pst. by the employees of Fafo’s study knew of an action plan with concrete objectives of preventing sexual harassment and attention at their workplace. Only 19 p.m. by leaders, guardians and trustees, they say they have received training on how to deal with sexual harassment warnings. The number is even lower if you only look at trust elected. Therefore, it is proposed from the minority to ‘ensure that knowledge of sexual harassment is included in the training of protection officers and in the training of all persons with public sector responsibilities’. Furthermore, the small amount of research we have in this field shows that younger women and workers with a looser link to work are particularly vulnerable to sexual harassment. Therefore, it is proposed from the minority to ‘investigate whether unsafe forms of employment ties increase the risk of sexual harassment and abuse’. [[...]] Fafo has also interviewed employers in his survey. None of the employers have action plans with concrete objectives of preventing sexual harassment of employees. Because few cases of harassment are reported from colleagues or supervisors, employers do not see it as necessary to focus specifically on it. Therefore, the minority suggests that ‘employer’s responsibility for preventing and preventing sexual harassment at work is more clearly stated in the Working Environment Act’, and we ask for an investigation of ‘lawmaking of liability for employers in the event of breach of the protection clause of the Sixth paragraph of Section 13 of the Equality and Discrimination Act’. The proposals we are discussing here are real solutions to a social problem that will not disappear by itself. The fight against sexual harassment is a struggle for freedom we must win. Today we have the opportunity to come a few steps further or to stand on the spot resting, as the right-hand side does with its vote here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e889	Let me first thank the proposers to focus on a problem that is still the most present in Norwegian working life, because when we talk about a safe, decent and well regulated working life, it also applies, of course, to protection against all forms of harassment. The government's efforts in this area are also being made in close cooperation with the social partners. We're not standing still, we're moving on. Having said that, we believe that, although the issue is still being raised in Norwegian debate, the solutions are already in place mainly in existing legislation. The proposal that knowledge of sexual harassment should be included in the training of protection officers and in the training of all persons with public sector responsibilities is already covered by the Working Environment Act. Employers are already obliged to ensure that employees who lead others have the necessary skills to ensure that the requirements of the law on the safe working environment are met. This requirement applies not only to the public sector but also to the private sector. Furthermore, it would like to make proposals to know whether temporary employment and hiring increase the risk of being subjected to sexual harassment and abuse. It may be worth noting that the rental figures are falling and that the number of temporary staff has not increased following changes in the Labour Environment Act. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has concluded a multi-annual research agreement to identify, analyse and identify the impact of different forms of association in the labour market in general. I would also like to point out that sexual harassment is unacceptable, prohibited and punishable, regardless of whether you are in a permanent position or in a vicariate. Secondly, there is a need to propose amendments to the Working Environment Act, so that employers' responsibilities for preventing and preventing sexual harassment at work are more clearly set out in the Working Environment Act. Paragraphs 4 to 3 already state that the employee should not be «exposed to harassment or other improper behaviour». [[3]] Once again, this has been taken care of. Finally, a proposal for the statutory liability of employers is sought in the event of a breach of the protection clause of the sixth paragraph of Section 13 of the Equality and Discrimination Act. The government has already looked at a proposal to set up low-threshold services to deal with sexual harassment. This was sent at the hearing in 2018, which means that the previous representative’s claim that the government is standing still does not lead to correctness. The statutory liability of employers in the event of a breach of the safeguard clause will be assessed in the context of the preparation of the legislative proposal to be submitted to the Stortinget in this spring. It sometimes happens that some of the proposals presented in this room kick in open doors, all the time it is either taken care of, or under work. But I'm really happy about that, because that means that we are together on the matter, but also that the government is doing well with changes that allow more people to go to work in a safe, good and well-regulated working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e904	I want to start by thanking Red for raising this debate. I believe that one of the main challenges facing society is lack of knowledge, more than lack of regulations and laws, and having a debate on this in the United Kingdom is thus important in order to raise awareness. Mr Red has four proposals in his draft representative and has also put forward a loose proposal in the Chamber today. It is about increasing the knowledge of sexual harassment among protectionists, about finding out about unsafe forms of association increases the risk of sexual harassment and abuse, about proposing changes in the work environment law to clarify employers' responsibilities, and about legalising liability – as a short version. In the last year, there has been a lot of focus on sexual harassment and unwanted attention in public space. The Metoo campaign has really contributed to it, and I don't think it's any exaggeration to say that the Storting has had its dose of those issues. In public space, it is particularly the policy and the know-how that have been most exposed, but we know that in other parts of society as well – the defence has been at the centre of the past, but also the working life else – are examples of too many and too large. In particular, the Fafo report, to which the representative Knutsen referred and which was also mentioned in his letter to the Committee by the Council of State, shows that the level of undesirable events is too high. When the Progress Party today wants to vote against the proposals, it is not that we do not think this is important. It's more about the fact that we already think the government is on a good track, and that an important follow-up is already underway. Read a State Council letter to the Committee and see that the word from the representative Knutsen that the government is "on-the-spot rest" is wrong. There is a government that is offensive and has many tools in the toolbox and many suggestions they work with. I also ask you to note that the Council of State writes that unwanted events and harassment are serious, regardless of whether you have a permanent relationship or are temporary workers. It's serious and criminal in any case. I point out that the Council of State is doing well because the Labour Inspectorate and the Equality and Discrimination Office have strengthened their efforts, so there is a lot going on here, and it is absolutely not right to say that things are on the ground. I also show that the Council of State announces that there will be more issues for the Storting this spring that show that the government is taking these issues seriously and following them actively. I thought it would be too cheap to run political rhetoric and give the impression that someone is more concerned about following up on this important issue than others. The government has a large toolbox, and they're going to make even more proposals for the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e921	I would like to thank the representative of the representative of Mr Moxnes. Everyone who's been bullied knows what it is – it's a form of harassment. I want to define harassment a little bit more. In my opinion, it's unwanted, negative actions. There are omissions or expressions that work, or are intended to appear offensive, frightening, hostile, degrading or humiliating. It has, for example, have been unwanted sexual attention, plagiarism, freezing, or wounding skinning or irritation. Harassment can be both isolated events and repeated incidents. If it is a single event, it must be above a certain severity in order for it to fall within the concept of harassment, at my discretion. On the other hand, if there are negative and offensive actions over time, which are systematic and repeated, this will be about bullying, which is a form of harassment, and which we counter in every way. This is my understanding of the concept of harassment. The term ‘sexual harassment’ further specifies the concept. The central party supports the four proposals in the vote and may also support proposal No. 5, to investigate changes in the law and regulations concerning the responsibilities of the employer. As regards proposal No: 1, which goes to training the protection ombudsman and training of all those responsible for human resources in the public sector, is good, because this gives you a discussion about what you mean by harassment, and where the limits go for what you accept and what you do not accept. The fact that it is more demanding to deal with harassment if one has an uncertain form of association in the world of work is reasonably obvious to the Centre Party, and it is important that the government goes ahead with what is proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox With regard to the responsibilities of the employer and the prevention and prevention of sexual harassment – in terms of Section 4-3 of the Employment Environment Act – it can be done quite well by including sexual harassment in Section 4-3 of the Act, i.e. the word ‘sexual’ in addition to what it says today. [[3]] In the case of proposal No: 4, that the Storting asks the Government to clarify the lawfulness of liability for employers in the event of a breach of the protection provisions, we believe in the Central Party that this is logical. It is natural that a reaction is possible if a good job is not done, and this will lead to greater attention from the employer in order to get good relationships in their own workplace.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e934	This weekend we had the Left Country Meeting, and we started celebrating the Women's Day. Trine Skei Grande went through the party's women's combat history in his speech and drew out the Left Women Fredrikke Marie Qvam and Betzy Kjelsberg, front fighters for female voting in Norway, and Eva Kolstad, who was the country's first female party leader and world's first equality representative. These women were pioneers a century and a half ago. They fought against the macho culture on all fronts and got it done, even though it probably cost. In 2019 we still have the remains of such an unculture in society, and the extent of sexual harassment has been a cruel wake-up. We don't require much when we say that women have to participate in the labour market in the same way as men – that's of course. However, being a woman at work in Norway is still a little more risky. One in ten Nordics are exposed to violence, threats or harassment at work, and it is young women who are most often exposed, especially if they are. are nurses or jobs in the overnight or service sector. 7 pst. by women and 2 pst. men are regularly exposed to unwanted sexual attention or harassment at work, but in these sectors the figures are much higher. We don't know what the lack of security in the workplace that these people know has to say for participation in the world of work. When I'm not going to vote for Red's proposal in the Storting today, it's not because I or Left don't take sexual harassment seriously. It is a huge problem, especially in the workplace, which we must fight against. But the left has been on the track and raised this issue for a long time. In 2017, we in Stortinget proposed introducing a low-threshold offer for people who have experienced sexual harassment. In January, we got a more committed point about this on the Granavolden platform, and at the national meeting this weekend, Minister of Equal Opportunities Skei Grande could tell us that the low threshold offer is now on its way. This offer means that you must not have against and economic muscles to bring the matter to court if you have experienced harassment. In the future, you can handle your case in the Discrimination Study and get financial upswing if you win. I think this will make it easier to get more people to report about harassment they're experiencing, because there's clearly darkness. I just want to encourage the Council of States to ensure that the obligation of activity and reporting is taken seriously when we are going to make new rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e945	Fortunately, in recent years more attention has been paid to and timely responses to sexual harassment. This is an unculture that has evolved in the workplace and in social terms. I would therefore like to thank Mr Redt, who, with his proposal for a representative, shows impatience, an impatience that we in the Christian People's Party share. For too long, there has been silence about these issues, and the victims of harassment have often remained standing alone in the face of powerful people who have taken advantage of their power and position, and in the face of a system that has failed if they have reported it. However, attention is not enough. New instruments are required if a change of attitude is to be possible. For the Christian People's Party, therefore, this proposal was not necessary, because we have been involved in collapsing it in the Granavolden platform, and it is being worked with the government. The motion for a resolution mentions four proposals, that is to say matters, which we believe are covered or will be covered today. It follows from occupational health and safety legislation that the protection ombudsmen are to be trained in the psychosocial work environment, including harassment. The more relevant the issue is in an industry, the more training requirements are strengthened. Employers' obligations under the Working Environment Act to ensure that workers who lead others have the necessary skills to ensure that the requirements of the law are met and that the working environment is properly maintained. Sexual harassment is prohibited under the Working Environment Act § 4-3. The paragraph provides for a ban on all forms of harassment. The responsibility of the employer to ensure a safe and secure working environment for employees has recently been clarified and clarified in the regulations. The Labour Inspectorate supervises the provision and may impose the necessary requirements. The Granavolden platform states that efforts by the Labour Inspectorate to combat sexual harassment should be stepped up, and a low threshold for enforcement of such cases should be established. The issue of the statutory liability of employers in the event of a breach of the safeguard clause will therefore be considered in the context of the preparation of the legislative proposal due in spring 2019. Furthermore, strengthening the obligation of activity and presentation has also been at the consultation stage, and it is proposed that the Ombudsman be given responsibility for guidance on this matter, for both private and public actors. Furthermore, the proposal requires further clarification and clarification of the obligation of activity, including in the case of active work against sexual harassment. This will be submitted to the Stortinge this year as planned. We therefore believe that the intention of the draft representative is respected.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e962	I want to start by thanking all the brave women who said, "Me too," and who organized uproar, and all those who work against sexual harassment every day. We had several important breakthroughs last year, including: lowthreshold services for dealing with issues of sexual harassment. As we remember, the government parties went against this first, but fortunately turned around in the last little. It's kind of nice that they now boast of this offer, when they were first against it, but it's quite legitimate to come up with better thoughts. We had hoped that we could agree on at least one new measure against sexual harassment in the workplace here today, because there are as many people who experience sexual harassment at work as in the city, yet the government has not done much to stop sexual harassment in the workplace. In our view, work on sexual harassment needs to be strengthened in the HMS work, both through the Work Environment Act and in regulations. The law must clarify that the work against sexual harassment is part of the responsibility of the employer for a good psychosocial work environment. The speech of the figures is clear: one in five who works in the hotel and restaurant industries or in the health and care sectors is sexually harassed at work. It's got consequences. Several people say that they have suffered mental distress as a result of the events, or have wanted to stop working. Every third employee in the cultural sector has experienced sexual harassment at work. And most of those who experience it are temporarily employed – they are far weaker than the boss and are easier to exploit than those who have a job protection. So we also have to take into account and take into account the conditions of power in the world of work. That's why it's so important to prevent harassment to work that as much as possible has a real job protection so that they can tell us if a superior goes over the line. Many don't dare it when they are totally dependent on this boss to have a job next week. The Ombudsman has asked the parties at Stortinget to find joint proposals for action against sexual harassment in the workplace. They said that on March 8. So far, the government has acted like a block of brakes in this work. If they vote down all the proposals today, that unfortunately means they've learned very little from the metoo. I am pleased that the red-green parties support us in our proposals. I hope that the government parties will take one last round and think again before we go to voting later today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e976	The government has a great deal of attention to sexual harassment in the labour market, and efforts in this area are also being made in close cooperation with the social partners. This issue has been addressed in the Labour Market Policy Council and is followed up in a Working Party on Gender Equality set up under the Council. All the main organisations, together with the Minister for Culture and the undersigned, participate in the Council. The living conditions survey by the Central Bureau on the working environment shows that sexual harassment occurs in particular in the accommodation and catering industries and in the health and care sectors. The Metoo campaign has shown that there are also challenges in other parts of the world of work. Testimonies from all over the world of work have shown how extensive this is and how important it is to break down. The government is concerned that employers, trustees and guardians are being trained on sexual harassment. The training requirements of the Labour Environment Act apply both in the public and private sectors and the more relevant the issue is in an industry. In particular, on the basis of the Metoo campaign, the Labour Inspectorate and the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman have strengthened cooperation on joint efforts to combat sexual harassment. An online guide has been created with practical advice and suggestions to prevent sexual harassment. This will now be translated into English. Training materials have been created for employers, trust-elected and protected representatives and training for inspectors in the Labour Inspectorate. The floors have held a number of courses and new ones are planned in 2019. In addition, «course management course» is held so that businesses can maintain their own internal course. It has to be, for example: maintain an internal course in the Scandic chain. In the food industry, the parties, in cooperation with the Labour Inspectorate and the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman, have developed their own information campaign. ‘Together, we set a line for sexual harassment’ is an initiative from the tripartite industry programme in the field of nightlife. Both a supervisor and a course have been developed, which is open and relevant to others. With regard to the proposal to investigate whether unsafe forms of labour relations such as temporary employment and rental increase the risk of sexual harassment, I would point out that the Ministry has concluded a multi-annual research agreement to identify, analyse and find the effects of different forms of association in general. In this context, I believe it is more important to focus on action against sexual harassment rather than on the type of employment. Sexual harassment is unacceptable, prohibited and punishable, regardless of whether you are in a permanent or temporary position. The proposal also proposes that employers' responsibility for preventing and preventing sexual harassment should be clarified by the Employment Environment Act. Let me first make it clear: sexual harassment is prohibited under the Working Environment Act. The law provides for a clear ban on all forms of harassment and, in addition, any other improper conduct. The Labour Inspectorate supervises and imposes the necessary requirements.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e993	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e998	The government parties write in committee, and the Council of State repeated here, that sexual harassment is prohibited by the Working Environment Act. Yes, of course it is. However, the Labour Party believes that employers should be made clear in the Labour Environment Act their responsibility for preventing and preventing sexual harassment, including as an important signal. The Working Environment Act is one of the most important information tools in the world of work. In the Fafo study, none of the employers say that they have action plans against sexual harassment, and they see no need to focus specifically on this, because so few cases are reported. Does not this study show that there is a need for clarification in the law, and clarification, so that it is clear to all employers that this is something they need to focus specifically on?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e1003	The government tightened the HMS regulation into the Working Environment Act as early as 1 January 2017, where we clarified and strengthened the employer's obligation to identify risk factors for employees. In some industries, sexual harassment is an obvious risk factor. The care sector is one sector where much of it is seen, but also in the restaurant and hotel industries. The reinforcement and clarification that Stortinget is concerned about, I believe is taken care of in the tightening we already did on 1 January 2017. In other words, it's not right what someone gives the impression in this room, that the government doesn't do anything. On the contrary, we have worked for a long time, over several years, to strengthen the rights of employees, clarify the responsibilities of the employer. The Metoo campaign has shown in recent years how important it is not only with changes in legislation but also with changes in practice, attitudes and practical work in the workplace.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e1012	At the end of her speech instead, the Council of State said that she would rather focus on measures against sexual harassment, not specifically on employment in the workplace. There is one aspect of the opposition here that has tried to point out that one has to look at whether unsafe forms of association, temporary posts, affect the extent of sexual harassment. Does the Council see any contrast between focusing both on measures to combat sexual harassment and linking it to precarious employment, renting and temporary employment?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e1019	Now, Fafo makes a survey for the Ministry of Associations, among other things. But what's my point is that sexual harassment is forbidden, it's unacceptable, and it's unwanted, whether the employee has a permanent or temporary position, whether it's a full-time or part-time position. What we see is that different industries experience this a little different, and that also means that different measures have to be taken. What's special about, for example, The care sector, compared with other sectors, may be subject to harassment from patients. It requires own action there. In the hotel and restaurant industries, sexual harassment from customers may occur. In that case, the action itself is directed towards it, which needs to be taken there. In other sectors, it may be from colleagues or from superiors. This means that it requires own action. From my point of view, it's more important to look at: what are the risk factors? Who is it that exposes anyone to this? What measures should be taken to ensure that this is the best possible, regardless of whether you are employed permanently or temporarily?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e1026	The keyword here is precisely risk factors — how to have a job where one depends on the boss’s willingness to have a job next month, affects the risk of being harassed at work, when the boss knows that he has power over the next month’s job to go to or not. It was a historic victory, not least for Norwegian women, when we got the Labour Protection Act in 1936, with protection against incalculable dismissal, because it made it possible to say if the boss went over the line, without fear of losing his job and his livelihood. Power was shifted from the bosses to the workers. It was necessary to combat harassment in the workplace. Does the Council of State realize that power is a factor in the risk of being harassed at work? Does she see it, or does she not see it?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e1033	Yes, and if there's anything the metoo campaign has shown, it's that a lot of the harassment you've seen, and see, is about asymmetry in relationships. That's what makes harassment and assault difficult for those who are exposed to it, because there's an asymmetric relationship between the one who's attacking and the one who's being attacked. The Working Environment Act prohibits all forms of harassment. When we tightened up the HMS regulation on 1 January 2017, i.e. the work started in 2016 was because we saw that there was a need to strengthen employers’ obligations to identify, prevent and prevent risk factors for employees. In recent years, there has been extensive cooperation between the Labour Inspectorate and the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman in order to increase competence also internally in our own supervisory authority, because we are concerned about knowing what to look for and how to deal with it when out on supervision.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e1040	Interestingly, the Council of State mentions the ombudsman, who points out that many workplaces do not have an obligation to prevent and prevent sexual harassment under the Working Environment Act, and that, in view of the Ombudsman’s view, there is therefore a need for clarification in the law. Then we can hear if it is Hauglies' view that the ombudsman is wrong when they want clarification in the law. Otherwise, it is quite obvious, as the Workers' Party also pointed out, that it is of course illegal to harass other people sexually. Everyone understands that. The question is: what factors increase the risk of this happening, and how can we prevent and prevent it from happening? Then our main keyword is to strengthen the rights of employees, so that they can say from if they experience it at work, and not fear of losing their job if they raise their voice and beat the table. Of course, here is the discussion about temporaryity, about recruitment agencies and about having regular jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e1047	Employers have an obligation both to identify risk factors and to take measures to prevent workers from being exposed to them. Employers also have obligations to have their own procedures for dealing with this. I fully agree with the representative of Moxnes that despite a year and a half with massive attention to sexual harassment, unfortunately, many – I would say – still do not have this in place. I think that's totally unsustainable. This must be taken care of by employers. This is not a question of the boss and the subordinate. If you think harassment just happens from the boss down, it's wrong. There is today widespread harassment between colleagues, between superior and subordinate, and women and men also experience it from their target audiences – patients, customers and guests. This means that different industries need different tools to deal with it. The most important thing is to take this seriously, take it down and establish routines to deal with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e1054	Yes, there are different risk factors in different industries. The appeal from several industries showed in the previous autumn was that those who worked in theatre, music, dance and cultural life in general pointed out that they are very often dependent on the goodwill of a superior to get a job next month, and that it was exploited by those who take advantage of the opportunity when it comes to it. The fact that you have job security is necessary to prevent sexual harassment. It is true that employers have a duty to prevent, but practice shows that this does not happen. That's why we suggest that the Stortinget ask the government to propose changes to the law, so that the employer's responsibility for both preventing and preventing sexual harassment in the job is clarified by the law, and to have liability investigated, because it must be vehement for the employer not to take the legal obligations seriously. Does the Council of State Hauglie see that there is a need for a type of rice behind the rear-view mirror to ensure that employers comply with the law?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e1062	In my opinion, several of the proposals that the proposal for a representative addresses are to open doors. These are initiatives and measures already taken and implemented. Among other things, as I have said several times, the regulations of the Working Environment Act have been tightened to clarify the obligations of the employer. But it doesn't just keep tightening up the law. This is also a matter of practice, and it is clear that when a year and a half with a methotrexate campaign still implies that many do not have it in place, it goes without saying that it is not only law and regulation that are needed to solve the problem. Employers have a responsibility today. Colleagues have a duty to inform them if they see any relationship with the job. With regard to the specific issue of liability — others have also been in the field of reporting obligations and the lowthreshold offer today — this action is followed by the Ministry of Culture. This has been out for consultation. Hearing recordings are now being processed in the department, and it is announced that there will be a case on this to the Stortinget. It's another department, so I have to make sure I remember correctly -- I think it'll be in the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e1071	Replicate cord shift complete. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e1089	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e1098	The right to disability benefit is an important right for people with significant and permanent disabilities. People shall be sure that, if disability is affected, the community shall set up good income insurance schemes, while at the same time facilitating and supporting the individual, so that as many as possible can return to work. There has been broad consensus in the Committee that participation in the labour market provides good, meaningful and healthful activities, and that it is also socio-economically profitable. I would like to thank the Committee for good cooperation, and I would like to explain to you the position of the Right in the matter. The welfare state shall be a great deal for those who need it the most, and welfare systems shall build up below the working line. One of the main aims of the reform was to make it easier to combine work and disability. The reform of disability has contributed to a more seamless transition between disability and work, and it prevents many from working at just below the amount limit, as it were before the reform of disability. There was broad political agreement in 2011, when the amendment was presented by the Stoltenberg II government, which wrote the following in Prop. 130 L for 2010-2011: «In order to avoid a threshold effect where labour income is higher than the amount limit, the Ministry proposes that only labour income beyond the amount limit should result in a reduction in disability benefits. As a result, there will be a gradual reduction in disability benefits as labour income increases. With such a system, increasing labour input will always pay off, even beyond the amount limit. It gives good incentives to work up to the money limit, which can stimulate individuals to try their way into work. A high amount limit means that total income may be high compared to pre-unemployment income and there may be unreasonable differences. The Ministry considers that an amount limit of 0,4 G balances different considerations in a good manner.’ The right subscribes to the assessment made in 2011 and underlines that today’s rules provide a fairer regime for both total and partial. It's important to prevent alienation. Young people are currently a priority group for labour market action and there is a wide range of measures and services for job seekers. It is also good that we have had a strong increase in permanent job placements in recent years, and that this is a priority in both sheltered and ordinary businesses. The project HELT MED has been employing several people in the last few months, including in state activities. This is important for a more inclusive working life. The Employment Committee will soon present its report, which will help more people to get to work and make use of their working capacity. On the right, the conclusions of this sample will be awaited and, in this context, reject the proposals submitted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e1118	The proportion of young people not in activity — i.e. work, education or action — is stable. The number of young unemployed has doubled in the last ten years. The aim of the reform was to include several disadvantaged people in the labour market. This has not been done, as the National Audit Office's evaluation of the reform shows with all clarity. The Labour Party has therefore called for an activity reform for young people at risk of being permanently disabled. This is not done overnight. Planning, follow-up and action needs to be improved so that more people can be included in the labour market. Combining classified disability benefits with work is central to such a reform. That is why the Labour Party is not voting for all the proposals here today. We are simply not sure whether the increase in the amount of labour income for the long-term unemployed is the right medicine to make a better link with the working life. Higher amounts of clearance may result in multiple adjustments, a low amount of clearance with a gradual increase in curtailment may prevent this. An increased amount of free time may also be used to undermine the system of graded disability benefits. I am sure that these are not the intentions of the proposers. Most of us probably share the wish that performers who have the opportunity to do so will get to work. The question is what kind of instruments are we going to use? The working party needs more information before we conclude, if necessary, that the higher amount of free time for the long-term unemployed is the way to go. Therefore, we ask for an assessment of how today’s curtailment rules affect the opportunities of disadvantaged people in working life. But I think a lot can be improved within today's legislation if we get a better follow-up at the Nav offices of the disabled. A few weeks ago, I visited the Nav office in Etne, a small municipality south-east of Hordaland. There they are close, they give priority to young people and have skilled employees and competent management – and with that they have achieved good results. For example, they have a decline in the number of young people in the municipality, contrary to developments in the rest of the country. This underscores my point, which has also been pointed out by the Swedish National Audit Office: The assistance to disabled people who want to combine work and social security depends on which Nav office the user attends. We're not going to have it like that. This is why we believe that, in particular, young people need better access to labour-oriented measures, regardless of which Nav office they attend, and without restricting access to measures for other user groups. With that, I take up the proposal in the vote on which the Labour Party is voting, and the proposal on which the Labour Party is alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e1131	: Representative Eigil Knutsen has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e1136	This case concerns the fact that SV has made three proposals to ensure that disabled people have the best chance of having a relationship with the labour market. The problem with the proposals is that some of them have been very opposed to the effect of the very nature of the labour market. When we read the comments, we see that the former cooperation parties that constituted the red-green government have different views on this matter, something the representative Knutsen did well when he said what the Labour Party meant. I have gone into the comments carefully and see that even the Workers' Party must distance itself from what the Centre Party and SV, with which they previously cooperated, now mean. It's interesting to read the comments where the Center Party and SV write about exploiting people's work opportunities. For the Progress Party, it's about allowing people to benefit from the job opportunities, and I'm recording that the SV and the Center Party are now taking the floor to exploit the work opportunities of people. In addition, the two SV and the Center parties argue that the child plugin should go beyond 100 pst. of what one had in income before. How to frame such a proposal with a headline that one will ensure a better relationship with the world of work, and then actively propose a policy that will make it more profitable to be outside the labour market, is a big mystery to me. In addition to my SV that the 0.4G limit is why people don't use the ability to get into work. What's my SV really about this? That is what I hope the debate will clarify. Do you think it's not enough to have a disability at the bottom, and also keep 0.4G – do you need even more money to get out of work? I think you have to set a little more requirements for people than what SV says, when you read their comments and try to understand the logic they have in this policy area. What I'm also looking at is that SV has a number of suggestions today about things for the people they want to spend more money on. If one goes into their alternative state budget for this year, only the children's supplement they've prioritised, with 41 million. kr. In other words, today they have a number of proposals that will cost money, but they do not show in their option how they intend to finance. All we see is that they want to spend more money on this field, but we don't know who's going to pay. Is there more oil money that is the answer, is it cut in services, or should a tax be harder on those that tax the most? I'm just wondering. For the Progress Party part, we are very pleased with the efforts Nav makes for this group. We see from the government's answer that one has this in focus. The children's supplement has been well debated in the past, and we have been in the budget agreement with the Christian People's Party a few to increase it to 99 pst. from next year, and we see no reason to respond to these SV proposals today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e1151	I would like to thank Mr SV for his proposals. For the Central Party, this is an important theme, namely the theme of the fight against Difference Norway. Strengthening the economic situation of the disabled is important to us. We must never forget that what happened in the 21st century is that the average increase in real income by well over 50 p.p., for those who are related to an infirmity and are not able to work, is in a much more difficult situation. The Group of the European People's Party supports proposal No. 1, where a ‘calls upon the Government to review the regulatory framework with a view to improving the follow-up of young people at risk of becoming or having become unfit’. This applies for the first time to the redundancy allowance. We believe that a number of young people are not ready to – what to say – be faced with the situation that a person before 25 years of age can go on his own account, while the limit today is 22 years old. So we want to expand the age group here, so that they get better time to get well figured out. Corresponding to work-preparation measures: It is important that a good job is done — there are work-preparation measures. Some will find that disability is necessary, while others have some ability to work. For those young people with a certain level of working capacity, it is not least important that they can get out of the labour market, perhaps with a government wage subsidy, so that the employer, whether a private or a public employer, can get a financial part-financing by taking that youth into work. In other words, the AAP Facility and the AFT Facility are important mechanisms to prevent underemployment among young people. In the case of those who are unfit for work, the VTA Facility — permanently organised work — is a seamless system that ensures that young people from higher education transition to and can obtain a VTA offer — very important. Furthermore, the Central Party has proposed to remove the 95 pst roof. It should just be missing, because the groups we're talking about here are in a special, vulnerable situation. Finally, we ask the government to put forward proposals to increase the amount of the public deficit for 2020. Based on an overall assessment, we believe that this is right to ensure that one is included. I refer to the proposal that the Central Party has with the SV, and the proposal that the Central Party alone has, the proposals No. 3 and 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e1168	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has drawn up the proposals he referred to. It summons the alternate of the Akershu County, Martha Tærud, taking no seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e1178	In practice, too many people are dissatisfied with one last stop, and there they are – largely without too many questions from the public about how they might benefit themselves from residual work. Ask them themselves, unlikely many of them feel that they have a residual ability to work, and that they can think of contributing to it. But there must be a little bit of their premise, and they must have the help to do it. But it is not well enough prepared for today. The National Audit Office reports that Nav helps people who want to combine social security and work to a very different extent. Here we need to ensure much better efforts, for society will need much more labour in the future, more than we seem to have available. The possibilities of combining work and social security must be more real than they are today, and we need to see the benefits of what they can contribute, even if too many people are small. If you have a choice to work with the rest job, you should not have much to do until this is the limit on free income. When this happens, it has to be shortened into disability benefits. The principle of this is not different in SV, but this abbreviation is simply not smooth enough today. We mean that the limit of 0.4G seems to be too low. Norway’s Handicap Association reports that this simply keeps people away from taking part in the labour market. Sorry, there are no settings configured for this limit today. There are not many employers who give room for 0.4G, and at the same time have a social inclusive place in the world of work. With this proposal for a representative, we in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy have put forward the proposals that we think are necessary. All of these suggestions will make it easier for disabled people to be included in society. I will record SV's suggestions in the configuration.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e1193	Then the representative Solfrid Lerbreck has drawn up SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e1198	The way into work has been too difficult — for too long — for people with functional variations, permanent illness or disability. The best way to live in a welfare state is the security network that exists when you go outside, but in the workplace there has almost been no middle ground between ‘fresh and in work’ and ‘unemployed and out of work’. At the same time, humans are complex. We're not our disease. A lot of people want to work a little bit or some other way, if they just get the opportunity. The right to participate in the labour market is also an equality fight. We can't stamp people out of work forever, just because they end up in a wheelchair or getting a chronic illness. The State’s safety net must also help to ensure that people who want and can continue to be active, even if the assumptions change. With the misreform, as it stood a great bulk of the population behind, we got a system that went more intensively to work than before. I will not vote in favour of SV's proposal, inter alia. because I believe the premise is wrong. Today's rules mainly work well. We need to have arrangements that encourage us to facilitate activity and work, not just because it pays off for society, but because we know how much it means for people to have a reason to get up, a community to participate in and work to master. The reform of the labour market meant that the financial framework was in place, but many have nevertheless been deprived of the opportunity. The inclusion virtue that the government initiated when the Left became part of the government last year is the second important part of the puzzle. Employers are now also on the team. Many have been pushed out of work because they have felt that there is no room for them. They have applied for a job and have not received it, or they have been informed that it is not possible to facilitate them in the workplace. These attitudes among employers and businesses are not sustainable. We all need, and many have a residual ability that can benefit society, even if they're disabled to some extent. The left wants to start by looking at a reform where the general rule is to secure income through adapted work, and not just through passive benefits, perhaps a combination. The impending reform and inclusion is the way forward now.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e1216	A well-functioning labour market is essential for each one to realize its dreams and ambitions. It has to do with identity, self-esteem and quality of life. Workers, regardless of their level of function, must know the safety and understanding of their situation. Work must always pay off so that the individual’s ability to work can contribute both to their own development and to the benefit of society. At the same time, the Christian People's Party believes that the social security network should be strong and well-organised, not least for people with challenges in their inadequacy. For some, it is possible to combine disability benefits and work. That was the main purpose of the miscarriage reform. The reform of disability has contributed to a more seamless transition between disability and work, even beyond the ceiling. There was broad political agreement on that in the Stoltenberg II government in 2011. The disability benefit shall replace income actually lost due to reduced working capacity due to failing health. An amount limit of 0,4G balances the fact that total income is not to be high compared to previous income, taking into account the need to motivate the rules to try their way into work. Lower curtailment rate or a higher amount of free money could in isolation increase the incentive to work more, but it may also have a negative effect by combining a full disability with income becomes more favourable than combining classified disability benefits with income. This must be looked at more closely in the reform. Children and families have always been the focus of the Christian People's Party. The child supplement is tested for needs, precisely to be targeted at families who need it the most. The child supplement is curtailed by 50 pst. income from the free amount, which is a lower abbreviation rate than most unearthed experiences against income otherwise. This isn't just easy, I admit it, but there's a compromise between the child's concerns and the fact that we want to make the most of our working ability. In 2018, the Employment Committee was established. The sample shall analyse developments in employment in Norway and analyse developments in the receipt of income assurance benefits. The conclusions of this sample are expected on mid-March. The Christian People's Party is looking forward to this coming, so that we can focus on ensuring that those who need the most receive the most attention.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e1229	The proposal under consideration today is about facilitating unconnected employment. It is good that the Committee highlights the importance of social organisation so that as many as possible can return to work. Participation in work is not only profitable for society, it also contributes to a meaningful life for the individual. One of the aims of the disability reform was to make it easier to combine work and disability so that the disabled can adapt to their own working capacity and not to the thresholds of the system. Only that part of the income exceeds the amount limit is now included in the reduction of disability benefits and disability benefits are gradually reduced against income. This contributes to a smoother transition between disability and work. The degree of disability is no longer re-evaluated, and a year of waiting before one can take work has been removed. Although it is worth working, we also have to remember that there are several balances we have to make. A lower curtailment rate or a higher amount of free money will in isolation increase their unincentives to work more, but it may also have a negative effect by combining labour income more favourably with full disability rather than with classified disability benefits. Two people who can work the same amount should have almost equal disability benefits, regardless of the degree of disability they entered into the scheme. The representative’s proposal calls for measures to ensure that children’s supplements are not unduly affected by the curtailment rules. I want to remind you that the children's supplement is tested for needs, just to be targeted at the families that need it the most. Reducing the supplement is a necessary consequence of the need test. It is important to prevent young people from staying out of work. Young people are a priority group in the follow-up and provision of labour market measures by the Employment and Welfare Act. Young people who want to work have the same statutory right to assess their needs for assistance as do other jobseekers. I am concerned that working will pay off. Nevertheless, I think it is important to remember that there are several considerations to consider when deciding how to shorten disability against income. The government has set up an expert committee — which others have also been involved in — to investigate measures to increase employment. The Committee shall also consider measures to increase the participation of the disabled. The Employment Committee is about to deliver its first interim report. I think it is wise that we wait for the report before we finally decide whether changes should be made to the arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e1244	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e1249	I think the Council of State answered one of my partial questions at the end of its article. If we look at proposal No. 7, from SV, to grant young people the right to labour market measures in line with e.g.: recipients of redundancy benefits – is it true that the law does not prevent the Nav offices from providing measures to young people? Where appropriate, is there a budget, a lack of resources and priorities in the local Nav Office preventing the use of measures for young people?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e1254	No, there are no obstacles to the law. On the contrary, today young people are a priority group at Nav. It is also clear from the letters of allocation and the budgets adopted in this Chamber. Several of the Nav offices have their own youth teams. We have established our own youth efforts. We have our own activity obligation for young people under 30 years of age in social assistance, even if it's a different target. But youth is generally a priority group for Nav. It's because we see how important it is to prevent young people from entering long, passive social welfare courses, in order to prevent more or less lasting and permanent alienation among young people. So here the government has taken a number of measures to capture young people. We have also given Nav, through the letter of allocation, a clear message that young people should be given priority in labour market action and other types of important follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e1261	Thank you to the Council of State for your answer. It is good that young people are given priority in the Nav system, but we are constantly receiving notifications and feedback that young people are not given priority in the use of labour market measures, because the local Nav office believes that there is a greater likelihood of getting other groups back in the world of work than those who have suffered permanent disability. Will the Council of State look at how the resources have been set up in the Nav system? Is it e.g. to distinguish budgets so that measures for young people do not go beyond the use of measures for other priority groups in the Nav system?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e1268	When it comes to splitting up the portfolio of measures, we have thought that we should go the opposite way. We want less detail management, larger bag posts, more room for action and more discretion for the Nav offices. The more smaller the posts we have, the less discretion and the room for action, the Nav offices will get. It's a balance of how to meet the failure. Over perhaps several years, there have been extensive documentation requirements in order to legitimise and prove that there is actually a real disability. For many, it would also not be appropriate to apply labour market measures and others after qualifying for a disability scheme. We also know that there are many people who want, want and can work, and then it is important that Nav helps them to take advantage of their residual working capacity. I would also like to remind you that this government has increased, in part significantly, the number of VTA sites that are targeting disabled people, where young people under 40 are a priority group, precisely because we want more people to be able to participate in the labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e1275	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e1295	I would first like to say to the Council of State that I think we all react very strongly to what the House and the Home and Family of the Council have been exposed to. It's very shocking to read and hear about, and I just hope that the police and society react in a way that allows the Council of State and his family to feel that they are being cared for, and that in no way can such things threaten our freedom of expression, our democracy, our willingness to stand up for what we believe and mean in society. I also have to add that I think the Council of State has dealt with those events and the outreachs in a reassuring and calm way that it says respect, in view of the experiences that must be strong. So to the matter. I have followed up on a number of cases against recriminals – what is known as organised, established criminal gangs and also criminal networks, including, young criminal networks – that have committed quite extreme acts, such as. Nearly-drap with a knife, which has been extremely shocking to witness to the local communities that have seen it, such as those that have happened in several places in Oslo in the last year, for example. Nearly executions in housing camps at a time of the day how many have witnessed it, and similar events. It's not our job here in Stortinget to discuss individual matters that are in the legal system, but I have to say that when I, for example. I've been following at least ten of those cases in recent years, I've been very worried, because in a lot of those cases, they're the ones that's meant to be, and they might be convicted in the first instance, still on the loose in these environments. A number of them have also been charged with new crimes after they have been committed or convicted in the first place. It's a situation that I'm very concerned about. In view of the replay that we want from the Biggest side, which I believe the parties agree on, and in terms of the visible result for the local population in the areas where this happens, the result is not convincing when they see that these are on the freefoot and continue to operate and even are involved in new events. It is clear that it can be very scary to see people who have committed a terrible killing attempt with a knife in the local environment, continue to walk around there for months on end and, as the population believes, and have reason to believe, continue their crime. When they are on duty, there is also a risk that they are threatening to testify, so that it will be very difficult for the police to investigate matters, to have the cases rectified. It is very common that they threaten to witness in the worst way, and there is also, of course, a risk of new settlement between rival environments, rival networks or gangs when society is unable to clean up in time. We have also seen examples of new killing attempts, most recently in Greenland not long ago, which were in the extension of an event before Christmas 2017. The media has described some of these issues, where people who have been taken in the first place are still on duty and commit new serious criminal acts. I'm not going to go into it in detail, but focus on taking up what we can do with it. I'll try to score at least four points. The first is that I think we need a common national crime analysis of the criminal networks, of the criminal gangs, who are committed, and who are developed by Kripos, so that there is a common understanding in the police districts affected, and in the parts of our social apparatus, justice and stuff that deal with these issues. Because it's very important that you see the difference in things. For example, whether it is a young person who has been arrested or a gun seized by a young person — or any age — there is a very big difference between whether he is part of a criminal network where this is part of the ongoing business, versus whether there is an isolated incident, an initial incident or there is some spontaneous act taking place in an affected area. These matters need to be dealt with differently, and the context needs to be seen when there is someone in these environments who commits crime, and then find an approach that is appropriate for those environments. So that differentiation based on environmental knowledge, I'm really asking for it. I have to say that I am concerned about the interconnection between East police districts and Oslo police districts. If people from Oslo shoot at Lørenskog, to take an example, it is difficult to see that those cases are actually prioritised by East Police District, at least from the picture I have of shooting episodes that have happened, where people were targeted, etc. for too long, without acting as if anything had happened in the legal system, in the prosecution. So it's also necessary, as the Oslo police have begun to deal with Oslo on the basis of such a differentiation of the environments you're facing, that the judges on these issues should have environmental knowledge and knowledge of the environments you're working with. Because if there are judges who don't know anything about these criminal networks you're facing when you're in court, and that, for example. When a new judge comes to each case against the same person, this could lead to a lack of coherence and a lack of understanding of the seriousness of the case, for example. in the case of the recurrence risk, the risk of threatening witnesses and the need for, for example: detention in those cases. Most of the examples I have — which I do not take every single one of them — relate to people over 18 years of age, but there are also people between 15 and 18 years of age I am talking about. What is important when you have a common understanding, common crime analysis, common priority of these environments, I think are quick reactions. If you understand who you are facing, you will also appreciate better the need for a healthy response. It's about the investigation. Now it is often that the investigation of matters I have mentioned also in the interpellation, happened back in 2016, without us seeing that they have been organised. The police say they lack research resources, and I want to say that they lack the ability to have investigators and prosecution lawyers working with criminal gangs, criminal networks, that's what they're concentrating on, so they have the knowledge enough to get right into the cases and have the background that makes it possible to prioritize matters all the way, and then you can find out faster how to organize them. The same applies to the practice of appeal and when they are determined. These environments almost always anchor a judgment on property law, and it can lead to monthly waiting times, where they are also on duty. This includes, among other things: the free defense that is part of that process, that matters are coming very late. There must be limits, and we must find a better way of dealing with it that defenders can say that they have no time, and then it goes further months while dangerous people are on the loose. It has to be solved, either by setting limits on the freedom of defence in terms of time, etc., or by using more care for those who have committed dangerous crime for periods of time. The same applies to prisons, of course, having to be ready. It has now been established that prison queues have been closed, but then it must also be possible to conclude agreements that they will be sent from the time of judgment, after the judgment has been given, into acquittal. We have also seen examples of crime being committed while waiting for prison places, even after prison queues have been closed. So faster reactions are a main point for me. A third main point, after a national crime analysis and rapid reactions, is how we deal with threats to witnesses and others who are going to explain themselves to the police. There have been bosses and families to me and told me about throwing stones at their homes just because they have explained to the police and they have been told who has done it. We've also seen – I've witnessed it in court – how explanations to the police are systematically forgotten in the next round, when you're going to court, you don't remember any of what you've explained, or that testimony is changed from court to law enforcement, and you don't remember what you said anymore. This is so accomplished, and I hear adults from the local communities say that unfortunately they can't imagine to witness or explain themselves to the police, because they're going to live in this, with the methods used to threaten witnesses. I believe that threatening witnesses must have very serious consequences. The police should take out their own affairs all the time when it comes up in court, and among other things. play by previous police interrogations, police explanations in the first instance to prove that they have changed it, and that this is not likely to have been done without threats. For those who are threatened, they will never say that they are threatened. I have some points left, but this is going to be an open debate, and I see that the time is up, so I get to finish at first. I hope for an interesting response from the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e1320	Like the inter-pellant, the President will express his strong concern about what the Council of State is exposed to from threats and provide support in such a very difficult and demanding situation. Such threats are, as the interpellant said, not just an attack on the Minister of Justice and Immigration, but an attack on all politicians, on the political system and on democracy itself in Norway. The councils must know that although he and his family must live with this alone, the Norwegian people stand united with them.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e1325	Let me first thank you for those words. I really appreciate that. I thank you for the question from the interpellant and appreciate this opportunity to discuss efforts to prevent and combat recriminal crime and issues related to the effective prosecution of recriminals. Challenges related to recrime have been the subject of several interpellations over recent years, not later than December 2018. I see that, through these debates, there has been broad political agreement on the need to lift the fight against recriminalism and that the necessary resources must be devoted to this work. I am therefore very pleased that through the State budget for 2019, on a proposal from the government, 50 million have been allocated. to a specific package to strengthen the response to juvenile crime and recriminalism. This new package has a wide range of devices. The funds shall be used for both early prevention, control, investigation, correction and criminal execution. This is based on a recognition that we can only deal with the problem of gangs through simultaneous action in the prevention track and the criminal trail. We must combat the established structures while preventing young people from being recruited into the environment. As a result, resources from the specific package are aimed at strengthening the efforts of both child protection, conflict councils, the Oslo police, and Kripos and Ecokrim. In addition, the funds for the special police operation in Oslo South are also 30 million. SEK, and Oslo Inner East, SEK 7 million. kr, continued in the State budget for 2019. In particular, these means shall be used to prevent prevention and to prevent recruitment to criminal gangs. The resources of the police shall be seen in conjunction with other resources allocated to the area operation in Oslo as a cooperation between the State and the Municipality. I want to make it clear that the bets I have shown here are in addition to the ordinary business of the justice sector. Together, I believe that this provides a good foundation for an overall and powerful effort. Of course, we will follow developments to assess whether there is a need for adjustments to efforts or further strengthening. The question asked by the representative, Mr Bøhler, in this interview concerns how we can get a more effective criminal prosecution after they have been taken for serious reasons. I agree with Mr Bøhler that it is essential that we as a society are able to ensure effective criminal prosecution, especially in the area of serious crime, including recriminalism. Once funds have been allocated to strengthen the response to the gangs, it is important that we ensure effective investigation and correction. In this context, I would like to point out that the Riksadvokat in its circular The objectives and priorities of criminal proceedings in 2019 provide guidance on the implementation and conduct of the investigation in matters related to recriminality. I've had a meeting with the National Attorney General on 7 January this year, and he says that he, in cooperation with the Police Directorate, will set up a national project that can also provide funds for cooperation between police departments. By letter to the relevant police and prosecution authorities, the National Attorney and the Police Directorate requested that a plan be drawn up by 15 March for a strong and wide-ranging response to the criminal gangs in the East. Furthermore, it is important that we ensure that the reactions are implemented quickly after a judgment. The representative’s question refers to specific cases where questions can be asked about the effectiveness of the criminal proceedings. I cannot comment on individual cases or cases against individuals where there has been a long time in different stages of the criminal proceedings. However, on a general basis, it is clearly unfortunate if persons convicted of serious crime, including recrimination, are released. This may, in the worst case, help to weaken the trust in the judicial system. At the same time, it is important that we ensure that the principles of legal certainty are respected. Everyone is entitled to the same level of legal certainty, while at the same time having a high level of efficiency. The Ministry of Justice and Defence will, in its dialogue with the Directorate of Police, the National Attorney and the Directorate of Criminal Affairs, ask the actors to go through the procedures in order to see how to minimise the use of time from judgment to acquittal. All stones should be turned at all stages to ensure that unnecessary time is not allowed to play in the process. The Ministry of Justice and Defence has launched a legislative review that is relevant to the fight against recrime. In this context, a number of proposals have been made for measures and legislative changes that the Ministry now has to assess. In the case of various offenders, we look at changes in the legislation on the criminal law responses to juvenile punishment and follow-up. This is a broad work that is intended to strengthen these reactions in general, but which will also, of course, be able to provide better responses in cases where young people are at risk of being recruited into criminal communities. We also need to assess whether we have the appropriate instruments for this target group, or whether proposals for additional instruments should be made. With regard to juvenile punishment and youth follow-up, I believe that the Ministry of the Interior will receive a final report from the follow-up evaluation carried out by Nordic research. The recordings received by the Ministry from the actors in the criminal case chain, together with the follow-up evaluation, will provide us with a good basis for any adjustments to the reactions. Furthermore, we also have regulatory changes to assess the impact on people in established environments. This is about ensuring that we have the necessary means to combat the established communities and the serious organised crime they commit. In this context, it is appropriate to look at both the need for further criminal and criminal law instruments. A broad consultation of legislative proposals will later be needed. It is too early to say a little more about when the government might be able to promote a proposition with proposals for legislative changes in the Stortinget. In addition to punishing the criminal acts carried out, we must also have the ability to hit the benefits of the environment from illegal activities. If we want to take advantage of it, we also remove the status of these environments. I am pleased that, through its Roundtable of Objectives and Priorities, the National Advocate has given the leadership that the withdrawal of dividends from criminal offences should be central to the fight against all forms of profit-based crime. The government, as I have pointed out, has taken the initiative to step up its preventive and combative action against recrime. This will be a high priority area in the future, which we will follow closely. The goal is to succeed in combating the gangs and preventing recruitment to these environments.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e1350	I thank you for the answer and stress that this is about the effective prosecution of those who have committed very serious crime and are part of these criminal networks, which are sometimes younger and sometimes older established criminal gangs. It will be very serious both for the local communities and for their own future when they feel that they can continue to commit crime; that it will take so long before something happens – it can take a two-three-year period – that there is almost indefinite time for them. This is a situation in which I understand that the Council of State is concerned, and he alerts different types of work. I wish that, as he suggested, the Council of States would also go more hand-in-hand into it – because these routines are going to go into, in practical cooperation with Kripos. By doing so, I think you need an analysis of these environments that are engaging and common, so you know you can prioritize the difference between individuals who are up in isolated events, and those who are part of this criminal activity I'm talking about, where we need more consistent and clearer responses. What's the problem is that when they're walking on their feet and they're convicted of one knife or one attempt to kill, they know that if they do more things while they're on their feet, for example. two years, it doesn't add up. It's almost an opportunity to keep up the crime when you're free and yet you know you're facing a sentence. It's also about protecting these people from themselves, about taking action in time to bring down the long wait before it comes to final judgment and atonement. I wish the Council of State took a more active position on some of the things I say about some of the points in terms of rapid reaction, in terms of joint crime analysis between the police districts in order to achieve a common pattern of action, and in terms of threats to witnesses. This is the very visible result, because it concerns how we succeed in replication. So it's not as impressive for people what suggestions we're making here on the Storting, as long as they see that the same people they're terrified of because of actions they've committed in our neighbourhoods around the city are on the loose. I am aware that we should not go into individual matters – and I have not done so, as the Council of State did – but I think we need to provide better tools to deal with this more effectively and more reassuringly, both for the people and for better help to those concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e1363	Essentially, I share the assessments that Bohemian makes. I think it's important to look at this in a much larger perspective than you might have done before. That's why it's not like – from the lawyer's side – that we're now talking about a project in Oslo, we're really talking about a national project in charge of the Police Directorate, but of course it's the Eastland area that's going to be the place where you look at it first. Here it is about doing it powerfully and efficiently and properly, and that these police district borders do not prevent it from being done properly. Then I would also say that I understand these concerns about the stay from judgment to pardon. It is true that it is the court and the judge who is judging someone for custody. There are some criteria that have to be met in order for you to be in custody, and if you really disagree with them, you have to change the law. Ultimately, this is an assessment of whether there is a risk of criminal repetition or loss of evidence. So when you have a verdict, it's really right that we, after all, from the Crime Department are trying to do what's right to get them out of the community. That's why the Directorate of Criminal Welfare actually evaluates every single sentence and tries to place it in such a way as to have an effect on it, and this is an assessment to be made. I understand the idea that you should be in prison right away when you are convicted, but what's happening is that you do an assessment of punishment – it's as simple as someone shouldn't be zoning together – and these assessments are taking place. But that doesn't mean, as I also said in my post, that we're not going to try to cut down these times. I think absolutely that's all possible reason to do that, to get it more effective, but there are some concrete assessments that sometimes make time that we might rather not have. And then, finally, I have to say that I really believe that in this area, in relation to the established crowds, we will be able to succeed and will succeed. Over the last year, there have been a number of arrests, several of which have had an impact on the efforts being made there. But we also have to make sure that there are no more people coming, so that by arresting someone, we also make sure that we are able to prevent the recruitment of these crowds. But these things now have a very high priority – at the National Attorney, at the Police Directorate – and I am convinced that we will see results. Then, on the government side, we're also going to make sure that we change the laws that need to be changed in order to get effective criminal proceedings.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e1374	I would also like to rent a rent with great emphasis on the fact that a mass political increase is taking away from the threats and attacks that have been directed against the Minister of Justice lately. It's an attack on democracy, and I'm glad that also the prime minister of big business was running under the clear line here instead. Thanks again to Jan Bøhler, who in Stortinget raises issues related to recriminalism. To me, it is an open problem in the fight against recriminalism that the criminal chain is not effective enough, that the capacity challenges in both the police and the courts, which the Labour Party has both pointed out and debated for several years, are not resolved by the right-wing regime. Many are aware of this challenge, both victims of crime — both recriminal crime and other serious crime — and members of the police and courts. I belong to a Minister of Justice who is good at describing the problems here from the pulpit, but I think there are no solutions. The right editor takes a lot of time to show off when the queues are removed. What is not as much about it is that new queues have been created, that new queues have now been created, both at the police and in the courts. It also helps to weaken the work we are talking about here today. It is a bad signal to the population and to victims for example. crime, that people may go free even if they have been taken. It can also be a problem of trust when criminals get a staff discount because things have doctors for a very long time. There is this issue we in the Labour Party are trying to travel time after time we in Stortinget discuss the subject of police, research and capacity, and I lack response. I also agree with the inter-pellant – as he has also expressed in several media – that it is positive that the government has now released a little when it comes to the Workers' Party's initiative to strengthen and intensify efforts against recriminalism. But I think it is important to stress that although it is positive that the Granavolden Declaration and the Minister of Justice here refer to a national replication project, there is a need to build up a permanent and long-term commitment. The investigation promise is well known to the Minister of Justice. The Minister of Justice should also know that this is a promise and not a promise. The Norwegian police are very pressured on capacity, and we read every week in newspapers across the country that one is under pressure for research. So it's not like we're quite a few about everything we're talking about here today, although the government party often wants to make it work like this. For we are not some when it comes to priorities in the budget. Last year, the Minister of Justice and the Prime Minister of Oslo East showed a commitment. But it's not a real bet when one gives with one hand and takes with the other. It is and will be a major challenge, and not just for the Oslo police district, that the operating situation is as stressful as he is. I was on the patrol with the Oslo police a few months ago, before Christmas, and I'm quite sure we share the concern that the police are reporting, that some of those who are now being recruited into some community are as young as down for 12 years. It's really serious. It is absolutely crucial to have good cooperation with both crime prevention local, health and school, but the Stortinget, and we in the Judicial Committee, have a special responsibility for the police. That's why, for the most part, in debates we have about the police, I'm going to point out that we're not going to be closed down with powerful measures, unless we're able to put the police in a better position to solve these challenges. In this context, I would like to mention that I think we have a very forward-looking urban council in Oslo, and I do not have a better commitment in the police districts so that that cooperation can be better closed. Otherwise, I will refer you to the Workers' Party's 15 proposals, which we now have to deal with in the Justice Committee, and which we presented today, where we have a number of measures to fight criminal gangs and organised criminals. At the end of the day, I could think of Wara's reflections on the problem of Bohemia's travels about witness protection. It's going to be a huge challenge. There are several people who contact us here at Stortinget and tell us exactly what Boehler describes, so I could think of righting the Minister of Justice's reflections about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e1393	I am also very pleased with the words that were said to the Council of State, and that all political Norway is rocking behind both the Council of State and his family in what they have had to experience. No policy-makers in Norway shall be exposed to. I also want to commend the interpellant for the commitment and the interpellation, which addresses an important topic. This is a concern that we all share, across the political lines, and it is of great importance that we have effective means of combating the situation we see, both in the field of juvenile delinquency and repeat crime. The Council of State was also concerned about how the police have been effective in taking more of the larger organised environments, among other things. So after the Young Bloods thing. But the big concern and challenge is perhaps as much youth recruitment and the trend we see in juvenile delinquency, which also serves as a recruitment base for these gangs. I am pleased that the Government Platform addresses several measures that will help to combat this. The Minister of Justice has also announced several measures to combat this, including several initiatives in the State budget for the current year. I am also particularly pleased with what the government council said about the rendition project, and I await with great eagerness how it announced the rendition project in the government platform will be designed and implemented. It's a power cap and an instrument that can be very important in tackling the issues we've now seen develop over time. Today, the police have gone out with figures that show that the police coverage is now approaching two per thousand. We also know that crime generally goes down, police coverage goes up, and the percentage of information goes up. However, for some types of cases, the challenge and the scale of the case increase a lot, and this binds up a very large proportion of the resources. It's noticed in the police, throughout the criminal chain and throughout the system. It's important that we get effective ways of dealing with both the gang and youth crime we're now looking at. As the Council of State pointed out, many of the decisions taken are also non-political, but are taken by the judiciary and the courts with regard to custody and other matters. However, the instruments must be linked. I am pleased with many of the tools that have come, but I am also pleased with several tools – not least the replication project. These are national challenges that we face together to solve, and we should not be content until we have broken the trend we are now seeing, with both increasing juvenile delinquency and increasing organised crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e1408	I will also join in what we have said about threats and attacks on both the council and the family, and take a strong distance from what has happened. I think it's been handled in a good way by the Council of State. There's an important matter interpellant taking up here today. The centre party wants to work for safe and good communities throughout the country, both in the countryside and in the city. We are forced to take seriously the repeat crime that is now developing in the capital. The interpellant focuses on the prosecution of recriminals who have taken serious action, and I'm now excited to hear more from the Council of State about the concrete work that is going on, as the interpellant has been about. In addition, I look particularly seriously at the recruitment of young people into these criminal environments and wish that the Council of State could say something more about what is being done to prevent young people from being dragged into such an environment. I understand that this is a complex problem for which there is no simple solution. The solution doesn't exist in the police alone either. There are a number of people who need to be involved in the prevention work, such as schooling, parents, child protection and the urban areas themselves. When a youth is first sued and brought before the court, it has already gone too far, and the youth may have been involved in these environments for a long time. Action must be taken when it comes to both prevention and research. In addition, an effective and rapid response is needed when a crime is first detected. There are several areas where this has failed today. This is what we see when criminal gangs evolve in Oslo, and there is now evidence that recriminalism may be spreading to other major cities in the country. The magazine of Bergen wrote about this on 20 February, where a special reference was made to a case in which a young man was in whole with a knife at the Circle K station in Solheimsviken. Several of the targets came from the capital. Reciprocal crime is a theme that embraces a lot of people. I have also been given the impression that the various political parties are not so disunity in a number of possible actions. Therefore, I have difficulty understanding why it took time. Of course, in some areas the ministry will need to do some pre-work and research to make sure that the measures are effective enough, etc. Nevertheless, we have a representative proposal, a so-called Document 8 proposal, from the Workers' Party for consideration in Stortinget. Interpellant Jan Bøhler is one of the proposers. The centre party supports some of the proposed actions and has its own proposals. I have the impression that the government party argues for some of the same actions in the media, while not supporting the same proposals in the decision of the Justice Committee that were issued today. If the government party had voted in favour, we would have had a clear plurality in the Storting for several of these measures. Here we can only agree on a lot, so what's the reason for the postponement? I hope that the Minister of Justice can say something about why the government party does not support the proposals that they themselves have argued for in the media, such as the ability to stop in certain areas and the strengthening of exit programmes to help people out of the rest environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e1423	I am very pleased, like all the others here, that a united political Norway has sympathy with the Minister of Justice and his family. I'm not going to repeat the arguments that have come up, but just adding that I'm happy for his very primitive approach to and response to this. He lies so low in the terrain in commenting on this that no one would suspect him of wanting to cut political coins at what has happened, and I think that's very, very good. I'm glad we're getting an interpellation. It should be that when we see that there is a judicial problem out there in the Kingdom, when we see that there are changes in the crime scene, and we see that we have challenges in converting the police into these tasks, it is the task of the Stortinge to respond, and that is what this interview is all about – like the representative proposal that is really about the exact same thing that we are going to be dealing with in a couple of weeks. The size should take responsibility when we see such things. We have a similar debate right after this which is about hate crime, which has a bit of the same gateway. It's an observation of a problem, and the Storting is trying to take responsibility for it. Similarly, we are going to discuss this Thursday when we are going to discuss family violence and rape. It's a little bit of the same entry. SV supports a lot of the suggestions that come up here, but at the same time I hesitate a little bit on a few points. Of course, I agree with the main objective of effective criminal prosecution of this type of crime, but if this is to be effective, we must operate with precise concepts. What's a bunch? I honestly don't know what a bunch is. In this interpellation, and also in the corresponding representative proposal, there is talk of gangs, and there is a little talk about organized crime and criminal networks without a formal distinction between these concepts. I think we have some problems in creating a clear legal framework, and also legislation, when our concepts are not clear enough. I just don't know what a bunch is. I don't know where a bunch starts, or where a bunch ends. I don't know if my children have been in a gang or not; I don't know either. Similarly, the concept of ‘gull’ is unclear, and one of the proposals to the Workers’ Party for a ban on membership or participation in a gang is also being implemented. So you have a ban on something that you don't know exactly what is, a bunch. In addition, the term ‘membership’ is used. What is membership in a crowd? I really don't know what that is. I think these terms are so unclear that we want to have some problems creating a clear framework for that. So I also think that the idea of banning participation or membership in gangs is a little complicated, because that means that the criminals who are in the gangs, as we now define it as, just have other criminals to be with, because there shouldn't be any other law-abiding who should have anything to do with them. That means the criminals should be with other criminals, while the non-criminals should stay away from the criminals. It can't be very smart in a purely rehabilitating perspective. We have to imagine that it can be quite healthy for those who are in the criminal environments, also to associate with other people who are not criminals. I am also a little in doubt about a few of the proposals, which are about extending access to the prison of young people, and also having longer sentences. There is also a package here which is partly supported by government parties. I have not yet seen or heard evidence that the type of action is working. What we know, on the other hand, works and, as the police have said, is prevention. The police cooperated very well with the municipality, here in Oslo, this summer, and they reported in September that there has never been such a peaceful youth crime scene in Oslo as in the summer of 2018, precisely because the youth had received leisure and summer jobs. So prevention works very well, and I think we're going to fence about that. My last point is that I'm a little unsure whether the problem of recriminalism is so big that it requires extraordinary measures to reorganize the police. I see that the interpellant believes it in the case of repeat crime, but he does not believe it in the case of family violence, which I believe is a much larger problem, which affects much more people. In this area, the Workers' Party and the representative of Bohemia will not have exceptional detailed management and earmarked police management. Why does the interpellant think that the exact problem of drug use and juvenile delinquency is so great that it requires that kind of action?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e1448	The representative Eide now started a discussion on a Document 8 proposal that we will be considering later in Stortinget. I would like first of all to comment on my interpellation today, which was not about the things Eide was into most of his post. But I just want to say that in terms of what a criminal gang is, Eide could have heard it if he had been there when the Oslo police district presented its analysis of it to the Justice Committee. When the Justice Committee was visiting there, a thorough analysis was presented of what they called criminal gangs – which are established gang structures, which have lasted for a long time – and what they thought were criminal networks, young networks and criminal groups around different places in Oslo. It was an interesting and important analysis, which was the basis of their work, and I also want to point out what I said about what I believe we need a crime analysis, a national analysis from Kripos, that can make these concepts and the understanding of this crime scene within criminal networks, groups and established gangs more clear and documented. Otherwise, I will leave the matter with the draft representative, and we will discuss it later, at the beginning of April. As for what has been said to my interpellation, I would like to thank you for the positive comments from everyone who has spoken. Let me comment on a few points. The Council of State mentioned the criteria for the use of custody – and now I'm talking about both those over 18, which most of the things I've been following apply, and about them between 15 and 18 – there's a recurrence risk, there's a risk of threats to witnesses, witness influences, etc., which are some of the most important criteria for custody. My point in the interpellation was the more that these things are hard to prove, for a witness who is threatened not to remember anything in the next round, after giving an explanation, does not mean that you are threatened, because you are terrified because of these threats. So that's the ability to investigate it, and also the court's ability to understand what environments you're dealing with, as I'm asking, and it's both the police's priority of investigating threats and the court's understanding of what environments you're facing. I've seen examples. Before Christmas, there was a case for Oslo District Court where the Oslo Police had prioritised demonstrating that there was a criminal network, a young criminal network, in the inner city east. They could identify threats, contexts, and how they operated. A convincing effort was made, so it is possible on the part of the police if the priority is good enough. I think we have a basis for taking this more seriously and prioritizing differently.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e1458	I would like to be allowed to come back to the representative's proposal when it is discussed in the Chamber. There were many people who mentioned it, and it's natural to do it at a later stage. Then I share the concern about witnesses that get scared. The police should give priority to that, and I think so too. In terms of custody detention and assessments there, my main point was that there is an assessment that a judge has to make on a case-by-case basis. You can certainly talk about examples, but you have to give the court a probability balance or proof, and it has to be done concretely. That doesn't mean we can't look at the law about these things, but it won't be right by me regardless of individual cases. But witnesses must be protected, let it be clear, and threats against them must be prioritised. So the main point here is more that we have a relationship between youth and established gangs, and I think that makes it necessary to have more thoughts in our head at once. That means we've seen a dangerous development in crime among them under 15 years. It's not the police's job, it's the responsibility of child protection and not least the responsibility of the parents. The police are given the task when the others fail, but they are less than 15 years old. Then we have them between the ages of 15 and 18, which is the responsibility of the police, but which we want to detain as much as possible. But the point of all of these under 18 years is that the police can't do that job alone. Here we need child protection, schools, municipalities, Nav, we really need the whole spectrum. And then it's the police who finally do it. What's a little doubtful sometimes is that when all the other floors fail, the police you point to are going to clean up. That's why I think it's a municipal responsibility, and it's important to talk to the municipalities too and react a little if a municipality only owes the police when we talk about the young. With regard to the established gangs, it is the responsibility of the police and prosecution authorities and priority shall be given. As I said, I have good faith that in many areas you will succeed in this. We've got new figures for the police today, we have 1.95 policemen per 1,000 inhabitants. The size set a target of 2 by 2020. That's what we're gonna do. That means we've never had as many policemen as we have today in relation to the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e1477	The debate on substance is closed. Then 5 o'clock.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e1493	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that the opportunity be given for a replacement of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e1502	First, I want to thank the Committee for a good cooperation on an important matter. Both hate crime and hateful expressions are serious crimes that must be taken seriously. This type of crime not only affects the individual victim, but also creates fear and insecurity among the population and society, and that is something we cannot accept. I want to stress that freedom of expression is a fundamental pillar of our legal system, and it should be strong – let there be no doubt about it. Freedom of expression shall be protected. We have to tolerate heated debates, and it has to be ceiling height. Nevertheless, we see that hateful expressions and hate crime can have major consequences both for the individual affected, for their relatives and for society. It has also led many people to refuse to take part in the debate because they have been met with hot, harassing or harassing expressions, or they have a fear of experiencing it, precisely because they have seen what others have been exposed to in the public debate. Fortunately, reports of hate crime have increased in recent years. It is important to follow these developments closely and to identify whether the increase is due to the fact that hate crime is actually increasing, whether it is due to the police detecting more cases of hate crime, or to the fact that several cases are actually reported to the police. Manglerud Police Station, Oslo Police District, has made an important effort to combat hate crime. I myself have visited them and seen the important work they have done to combat hate crime and hateful expressions. They have their own group for investigating just this type of crime. It is an important step, and the Committee has also noted that this group has a role to play in guiding the other police districts in cases of hate crime. It is important to ensure that the investigation competence in these kinds of cases increases, and that all the police districts of the country are best equipped to investigate matters and provide the best possible assistance to those who become victims of hate crime or hateful expressions. We must combat hate crime and hateful expressions. It is also important that we look at the quality of prevention work. This is not a task just for the police. Prevention of crime must take place in many areas of society. The Minister of Justice wrote in letters to the Committee on Justice: ‘The government will follow up its efforts to combat hate crime and will continuously assess the need for new measures, including those in the police and prosecution authorities.’ It's important action, and it's joyous that the government focuses on fighting hate crime. Proposalers have pointed out that there are major regional differences in the fight against hate crime. There is also a varying need for action because police districts have different sizes and challenges are different, but regardless of the size and challenges of the police district, it is important that combating hate crime and hateful expressions does not depend on where you live. It is therefore important that this be taken seriously in the police districts. With fewer police districts, efforts are being made to create stronger professional environments and pool resources. There are also important interventions to combat hate crime. We also see that the School of Police from this fall has had a new study offer in the field of prevention and investigation of hate crime, while the police have a tipper that is daily staffed by Kripos, where the audience can tip off racist, discriminatory and hateful statements. The tipper conveys enquiries to the appropriate police districts and provides effective management of the tips received. It is probably an important prevention measure that will help prevent hate crime and hateful expressions from taking place. As I said, this is not a job that the police can handle alone. That is why prevention is so important, and I am pleased that for the first time we have a government that has launched its own strategy against hateful expressions. This is an important work affecting many departments, many establishments and organisations. With the work done by the government in this field, both on the police side and with the strategy, I am sure that the work to combat hateful expressions and hate crime is high on the government's agenda. It is on the basis that the parties to the Government do not support the proposal under consideration.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e1526	I would like to start by thanking the case manager for a good work on the matter. Hat crime creates victims on many levels. In addition to hitting those who are directly exposed to violence, hate crime, just as Solveig Horne describes it, creates insecurity for large groups of the population. In addition, democratic core values such as equivalency, security, freedom of expression and, not least, the right to be themselves. A society that rests on the principle that all human beings are equivalent must take hate-motivated chosen seriously at all levels. From previous reports we know that a significant proportion of those who practice hate crime are young. This means that the student must take a clear responsibility for disseminating knowledge and developing attitudes consistent with democracy, equivalency and the security of minorities. The fact that ‘homo’ is the most common shell word in the school is an illustration of the need for action. Here we know that actions supported by stakeholder organisations often have a high impact and high quality. Examples of this, which is well known by the Justice Committee, include Rosa Competence and Restart, where FRI and Skeiv Youth are among others. run instructional arrangements based on own experience. Unfortunately, these measures are underfunded and should have our strength. There is too much variation between the police districts when it comes to both how matters are handled and how the police have competence. The fact that work and opportunities to intensify work on hate crime now suffer from the fact that the districts are underfunded and that the police reform is being carried out in a very bad way, I think there is little doubt about it. The Riksadvokat has also clearly stated in Circular 1/2018 that hate crime should be a priority. If we are to do this, the right-wing government will soon have to give priority to the police districts. I understand well how demanding it is in the district, where the tasks are queued, while the bank card was not sent. During the red-green Stoltenberg government, we wrote in the letter of assignment to the Police Directorate that it would take a course in all police districts on hate crime. The right-wing government has taken this out of the letter of assignment, and I think that's very unfortunate. This may include, inter alia: is one of the reasons why there are still too many differences in the country. It is through the letter of allocation that, among other things: underlying etats receive leadership from the Ministry on their priorities. In May 2018, the Workers' Party received several figures for the proposals we had against hate crime that transpersons, gender identity and gender expressions would also be covered by the law. Now it's almost a year and nothing special has happened. The Labour Party believes that the power that is being done against people has to be reduced more strongly because one lives like one. Everyone must be able to live free lives in Norway, and everyone must have the right to protection against hate crime in our law. Capacity needs to be built in the districts to lift the fight against hate crime. The working party does not necessarily agree that this means that we must oblige the districts to set up their own groups. We mainly believe that it is important to have a training and competence enhancement and a significantly strengthened space for action by increasing the free means of operation. Competence and capacity must be built up in the districts, and responsibility for the fight against hate crime must be clearly placed. Here the range could vary between the districts. As you can see in the setting, the Labour Party does not think that the Hath Krim group in Oslo should be charged with a national responsibility, and we refer to the comments from SV in the setting, which we are some of. I believe that the voluntary organisations, which have good and strong competence in this area, need to strengthen their funding and become actively involved in the competent work in the police districts of the country. I am pleased that a Joint Judicial Committee wrote in its statement that raising the competence of all police districts is an expressed objective. It is too random today, and that is why it should be made compulsory, as we propose in the case. However, it must once again be stressed that there is a need to ensure a significant increase in the operational budget for the police districts. I'll take up what we're part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e1551	The representative, Lene Vågslid, has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e1556	I hope this doesn't evolve to become a debate about who's for or against hate crime. This is about what kind of action we think will work and not work, and to what extent the Storting should guide the priorities of the police according to local needs. I much share the reality description from SV when it relates to the problem of hate crime. It is unacceptable that a person should experience being subjected to crime on the basis of, for example: ethnicity, religion, orientation or gender identity. This shall not be the experience of any man. We still know that it happens. Then we have to make sure that our legal system can handle these matters. Victims must be well cared for, and those who commit hate crime must face police and judicial responses. However, I do not share the view that the measures proposed in the draft representative are the solution. This will include, inter alia: proposed the creation of own hate-crime groups in police districts and the creation of a new national coordination unit. Despite good intentions, this becomes too concrete when it comes to the means to be used and too little concrete when it comes to how to achieve the goal. The goal must be to fight crime all over the country. It must also be a goal that the police should know their neighbourhoods and be able to prioritize each and how they should put their efforts in place. It should be for the police districts to assess whether this is best done by establishing a separate unit for the area of crime to be prioritised, or whether such matters can be prevented and investigated in another way. We have 12 police districts in the country, and they are very different. Many police districts share the view that they are in a very demanding and difficult resource situation. This means that, as the populace, we have to be extra aware of the extent to which we are leading the resource use. Exactly how the police districts are going to organize work against hate crime, and whether this is going to be done through their own groups or in other ways, I think I have to be a local assessment. Today, there is a skilled hate-crime group in Oslo that has had an informal advisory function for the other police districts. I think it might be interesting to see if this group should get mandates and resources to have a more formalised advisory function for the other police districts – rather than creating a completely new, own national unit, as well as own groups in the police districts. The centre party has proposed this and hopes this is something that the government will look at. With that, I take up the proposal from the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e1571	The representative Geir Inge Lien has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e1576	When we see a legal challenge – as we also discussed in the previous debate – when we see changes in the crime scene, and we also see shortcomings in the police's ability to deal with this, yes, then the Storting will take responsibility. That's my starting point for making this case. Of course, this case is not about being for or against hate crime, it is about whether the Storting has the courage to put in clear measures and instruments to do something about it. At the heart of this is that we want hate crime groups to be set up in several – not all – of the proposal, it says ‘more’ – police districts in Norway, not just in Oslo, and that a national unit should be set up to coordinate this work. Why? Well, here's a very small story from an ordinary Saturday morning in Oslo. It's actually happened, what I'm going to describe now. It was the middle of the bright day, on the Tøen. A woman in hijab is on her way home from the store in her safe neighborhood. Out of the blue she hears another lady beyond the cry of the 'fucking Negro whore', and it's the beginning of an episode that she'll never forget, for right after that this lady goes screaming, straight to attack her. I have many such specific episodes about what's actually happening. Hat crime is very serious, because it creates fear of those who are directly affected, and also of those who belong to the same group. Most of the stories we have about this come from Oslo, just because it's in Oslo you've worked most on this. For example, had these events occurred elsewhere in the country — at Tynset or in Harstad. this lady probably did not report the matter, because then there would not have been a police officer with capacity or competence to handle this properly. Hat crime in Norway is increasing. There's been an increase of 17 pst. This Regulation shall enter into force on the Immigrants are the most affected. 80 pst. hate crimes are about skin color, ethnic origin and religion. This also destroys the criminality of integration. That is precisely why hate crime is an important obstacle to good integration, because we want our new countrymen to feel safe, they should be protected by a community, and they should not have to be afraid. It may, in fact, also happen — a lot of people in this room are concerned about — that hate crime increases segregation in society, because immigrants who are exposed to it will preferably keep to themselves so that they do not become exposed to it. In fact, ‘gettoification’, which we are concerned with, can increase to an extent if we do not have active action against hate crime. Unfortunately, Stortinget will vote in favour of SV's proposal. It's not about hate crime, because I think we all agree that it's not good, but it's about a fundamental disagreement about how far we're willing to run the police when we're observing a societal challenge. I believe that in areas that increase violently, such as hate crime, family violence, which we are going to discuss on Thursday, child abuse, etc. – in these areas, which is such a clear change in the image of crime, and to which the police have not managed to change well enough, the Storting must go in and make clear their approach. The police themselves say that they do not have the capacity and competence to handle such matters, and many of them are being desecrated. Then it's not enough just to give the police more room for action, if we're not willing to say, the extra money you get, you're actually going to use in these areas, not to buy more cars. This is for the Center Party. Those means shall be used for this particular purpose. When Stortinget observes a problem, yes, then that's the problem the police have to solve when they get more money for it. Everyone here at Stortinget also agrees that it is not good that there is so much geographical inequality, and then we just have to remember what happened to the Minister of Justice. Some of what he has been exposed to, is also investigated as hate crime. Had he lived at Tynset or in Harstad, the police might not have had sufficient resources, competence and capacity to handle that matter properly. So I'm going to push a little over the refusal that's against eartaging and directing the police in the direction that Stortinget actually wants. With that, I take up the suggestions SV has on its own.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e1597	The representative Petter Eide has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e1602	Hat crime is more than a violation of folklore and accepted behavior. Hat crime strikes a wedge into public security among us and society. In that portfolio, to put it that way, we find threats, bullying, harassment, anti-semitism, racism – different types of mental violence against fellow humans – and I am glad that there is such a consensus that whether it happens on the street or whether it happens via a web-troll, it has to be turned down. Of course, hate crime affects the victim most. It's important to think about. But it also affects, as has been mentioned by others, democracy and the right to stand for one's point of view and to be who one is. It's at all a sign of sickness in interpersonal life and culture. That being said, one may believe it and at the same time have tolerance for opinion. It shall not be shackled; it shall not reduce the ability to express its opinions. There must be preventive work here in many sectors, and then I think of school, parents, cultural life and media in general. This must be a social responsibility that we share, across both policies and other spheres of interest. We, too, who are in a political environment, have to think through how we formulate, in the debate here, in the media and in the social media. Lack of awareness among individuals can quickly subdue and legitimize attitudes without having to deal with them. You move borders unconsciously. We must also remember that individual people are role models, both positive and negative, and we must all share that responsibility. With regard to the proposals that come here today, there are good proposals, with good intentions, but with regard to proposal No. 1, this by having dedicated groups in different police districts, the Christian People's Party assumes that the police dimension and priority themselves. This is a social change. Whether it's because of statistical issues or whether reality is like that, this is part of everyday life, and I assume that the police are able to do their job where the need is greater. Otherwise, it is important for the Christian People's Party that residence should not be decisive. This shall be a common knowledge and competence and space of action, whether living in the north, south, east or west, in densely populated areas or in pig-grown areas. The same applies in so far as proposal No. 2, establishing a national unit with coordination and professional responsibility. I reacted a little to that proposal, because it is obvious that the police have that responsibility, and that through their directorates and their bodies they must be able to handle it. In our digital age, such competence can easily flow between the different parts of the country, I think. So I hope that for the future we see the police prioritizing this, and that there will be a minimal use of provisions, for the sake of the victims.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e1619	Hat crime is a serious form of crime to be taken seriously. This type of crime not only affects the individual victim but creates insecurity between others and society in general. In 2018, the police received a total of 624 reviews of national hate crime. This continues a steady increase since 2014, when the figure was 223. The Directorate of Police explains the increase, inter alia: the fact that the police's knowledge of hate crime is now much greater in more police districts. They believe that this has led to good understanding of phenomena and more accurate recording of matters in the districts. The police's own survey shows that 37 pst. by those who stated that they had been subjected to hate crime, the case was reported to the police in 2018, against 17 p.m. in 2015. Dark figures are a challenge in this field. The police depend on the public's confidence that matters will be reported. We believe that the knowledge development in police districts will continue to increase reporting flexibility. In a few years, hate crime has become more firmly anchored in the police action, with increased focus on governance documents, reporting requirements and active use of the police’s intranet, where current new issues and best practices are shared. The Police Directorate reports on increased understanding of phenomena and better integration of hate crime into the police through Joint Criminal Procedures. It has been one of the first priority functions in implementing the police reform and will ensure the proper prioritisation and quality assurance of criminal cases — from the registration of the notification — and will ensure that several of the cases of hate crime are registered as such. Furthermore, police reform has given us more robust police districts. Through this, we're getting together resources and creating stronger disciplines. Greater and stronger professional environments provide a greater basis for more specialisation and development of competences also in the field of hate crime. The police shall have sound knowledge of how the provisions of the Criminal Code on hate crime are to be applied. In order to ensure uniform handling of the subject area, last year the Police Directorate developed a guide to recording hate crime for use in police districts. Proper coding of matters in the police records is also necessary in order to base criminal-aggravating factors, in line with what the law requires. Police higher education also plays an important role in the development of competences. They provide further training in the prevention and investigation of hate crime. We have good experience from the efforts of the Oslo police district through the creation of a separate group for the investigation of hate crime issues. The establishment has been a useful grip. The group has also informally played a role in guiding the other police districts in cases of hate crime. It has provided an appropriate tool for similar groups in several of the police districts of the country. The Ministry’s steering signals in the letter of award and the priorities set by the Advocate General indicate that the Directorate of Police and the police officers follow up on the priority of disciplines in order to indicate the good results and effects of their work and the actions they take. There may be different needs from district to district. Moreover, crime can change over time. Designation of resources for police districts will give the police less scope for action to give priority to resources where the need is greatest at all times. I therefore believe that it should be up to the individual police districts to assess whether they should set up their own hate-crime group, as has been done in Oslo. The essential requirement is in any case the same thing: victims of hate crime shall receive equal treatment from the police, no matter where in the country the untruth has been committed. Those who report anti-truth crime, including hate crime, often need cross-border assistance and follow-up. We have therefore established twelve support centres for crime victims, one in each police district. The action shall improve the follow-up of victims and relatives throughout the procedure and shall address, inter alia: against victims of hate crime. The government will closely monitor efforts to combat hate crime and continuously assess the need for new action, including within the police and prosecution authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e1643	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e1648	Under the red-green government it was stated in the letter of assignment to the Police Directorate that it was to take a course in all police districts on hate crime, under the direction of the Rosa jurisdiction. My question to the Council of State is, why does the government remove this?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e1653	Police reform has led to a major need for training and competence development and for certification in everything from operating centres and training in on-site police work to joint criminal action, etc. We want to be careful to impose further training and competence measures beyond what the policeman himself considers necessary. I notice that many often criticise the police reform for being a centralisation reform. The challenge is that very often when I'm in this room, it's going to want to centralize even more rather than decentralize. I think it's right that we leave as many decisions as possible with the individual police officer.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e1658	It was a form of recognition that police reform and its implementation go beyond this work. But does the Council of State – with the answer – believe that there is no need for training and raising skills on the subject of hate crime in the twelve police districts we have?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e1663	There is an absolute need for training and competence in this field. My point is this: It is not certain – let us say – that dedicating police to this is as great in Oslo as in Finnmark. That's the assessment I think you have to respect. It may be easy to imagine that it's nice to send policemen on the course, but policemen on the course are not operational. We should try to keep the needs, crime trends and the challenge in each of the police districts governing what the police chief there wants to do with the further training of the police.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e1670	My last question is: why has the government not followed up on the proposals made last year by the Labour Party to extend the provisions of criminal law on hateful expressions, hate crime and discrimination so that they also include hateful expressions made, or discrimination practiced on the grounds of sexual expression or gender identity of a person? When can we wait for a bill to the Stortinget on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e1675	Of course, the proposals that have been discussed here in Stortinget in the past and have received a majority should be followed up. I can't now say how we'll follow it up, and in what way. The important thing is in any case that these matters have a priority and will be prioritised. In many ways, I think that exactly this type of crime actually shows the strength of police reform. Just having larger units to develop professional environments and competences, the fact that the chief of police has a room for action to give priority to the crime scene, was one of the ideas of the police reform. And the result is that more than before report hate crime, because the police are actually better able to follow up, understand and understand the phenomenon. I think that is actually one of the important results of the police reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e1680	The UN Committee on Racial Discrimination has recently reviewed Norway’s efforts to counter hate crime against race, religion and sexual orientation. The Committee drew attention to a number of areas of improvement, which is the question: What concrete action will the Council of State take to follow up the criticisms of the United Nations?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e1685	The UN report has just arrived. As a rule, the government will review it and respond to its challenges. I have no answer except that as usual we follow it up, and as usual we respond to the criticism that lies there.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e1690	I will follow up on that representative from the Central Party just mentioned, and that is, to a large extent, a greeting to him, to the UN Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination asking explicitly in its recommendation Norway to set aside resources to create hate crime units throughout the country. They explicitly say that. That's what the Center Party is against. But the United Nations says that. My question to the Minister of Justice is, how will he communicate to the UN that he does not follow the UN recommendation?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e1697	Here I'm going to refer to the answer that I gave instead. We're going to review all the points in the United Nations report, as you're going to do, and you're going to answer them the way you think is right. For our part, we point out that these matters are to be given priority, that we believe that the police prioritize matters, that we have a police force that has become very good at this, and that these matters are being followed up in a very good way – which also shows numbers and statistics, by discovering what was probably dark numbers.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e1705	Then the cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e1712	Hateful statements and violence have always been a powerful tool for those who use it against others. And this debate and the Minister of Justice's answer make me worried. Because he says that the local police offices should read the crime scene, and then you should kind of turn the priorities against what is important locally. But there are a lot of people who now don't report different things, because it's not useful, precisely on the basis of the developments we're looking for the police reform, but also in these matters that we're talking about now, because they've experienced that it doesn't work, and the police don't understand. What we've discussed a lot is, of course, hate expressions and actions on the basis of racism, LHBT people who are exposed to both violence and hate, and also women. But one group I haven't heard anyone else talk about is disabled. Disabled people have quite clear feedback to the police. We also have research reports that say that they are much more vulnerable to hate effects than others, and that when they get to the police, the police see it as a common vulnerability, not as a hate crime. But I can promise that those who experience this perceive it as a war of hatred. Research carried out by Nordic research a few years ago showed that of the interview objects with disabilities, one in three was hit by hate crime, and 10 pst. had seen itself have to move because they were hit by this. I don't think this is a problem that, to say it like that, is very visible in the different police districts. It is very serious that people with disabilities are exposed to this. There may be people who remember that the leader of the Youth of Norway's Handicap Federation, Tamarin Varner, reported that she was spitting on the trick. She has a muscle disease and has involuntary spasms, and she was spitting on the bitch. The very many of these people are told that they should not be born, that they should not be here, and that they are a burden, etc. This is very serious crime, but I think that when we look it up against another type of crime, we don't view it as dangerous, and I fear that the police won't take it that seriously either, simply because these are groups that are unable to rebel and fight back. I'll ask the Council of State to look at this, because this is very serious.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e1725	To the representative, Eide, who claimed that the Central Party does not want to have a good service across the country, I just have to say that it cannot be disputed. We in the Center Party, however, don't want to eyemark each of the heads and what's going to be done, but we want to give enough frames. Among other things, I hear the minister now says they've come up with 1.95 policemen per 1,000 inhabitants. Does this apply only to the nation, or does it apply – as we in the Central Party wish – to every police district throughout the country? It has to be done to get a good police service across the country. The goal must be to fight crime and hate crime all over the country. It must also be a goal that the police who know their neighbourhoods can make a priority of each and how they need to put the effort in place. Then we're going to be helping to make the resources well divided across the country so that the locals get a good sense of close-up police.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e1732	First to the Center Party: I record that the Center Party is not willing to earmark funds for this matter in each police district. Nor will the centre party be involved in earmarking funds — that is, Thursday’s debate, to which we are going to go — for family violence and rape in each police district. In other words, the centre party in these cases is for a centralization line. What I stand for here is a decentralisation and a district policy line. So that gets the Center Party to answer to its voters. If you give more money to the police, even in the districts, you have no guarantee, based on the Central Party's arrangements, that the police will use the money for the political priorities that the Central Party wants. They can choose to buy cars for this money, and that's exactly what I want to avoid. We see that in the case of hate crime, there are over 600 cases registered in the last year. I don't have numbers for this, but the largest proportion of these cases, population, are in Oslo. Then I would like to ask the Minister of Justice: does the Minister of Justice not think this is about some kind of dynamic effect, that the fact that we have established capacity, competence and our own specialists to handle this has helped to trigger this response from the audience in Oslo, so that they actually dare to report? That's why we get the large share of cases in Oslo. It's not because there's much more hate crime in Oslo than elsewhere. I think the reason there are very few reported cases of hate crime, for example. in the County of Liens, Moor and Romesdal, that there is no police there to deal with it. It is not capacity and competence. If we had gained capacity and competence, yes, then people in Molde, Åndalsnes and Kristiansund would also have started to report this. But then we have to build this capacity and the competence of the police. Then we get to this dynamic effect, that we get more reviews. In these cases, several reviews are actually a good one.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e1739	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e1757	This interpellation is about what good debt collection practices are, if why Norway is at the collection point, about the number of debt collection cases growing at record speed, and whether Norway has so high a charge in relation to our neighbouring countries. There has been a strong focus in the media, and examples of totally unparalleled extra costs of small demands have flourished. I mention some: Small requirements for a few hundred patches may amount to 4000 kroner in a relatively short period of time. People have had pay cuts without knowing that they had unpaid claims. The main claim has been paid, but the debt collection company has sent the claim to the tax collector to collect the debt collection fee and the writing fee. Debt collection claims have been sent while one is still in hospital. Furthermore, I can name the medical bills that went to the collection agency and the enforcement of yours was ill and did not think about paying after the consultation, and one had moved to a new address, and the leagues that had not themselves accepted that the missing payment from patients should be sent to the collection agency and forced collection, but discovered that there was a general mandate in the bottom. It's like putting the goat to fit the oat bag when those who deliver the vending machines before health also take the collection collection order. Is this really in line with a good debt collection policy? Even back in the old Roman right, one thought of it as inhumane to enslave people for trifles. In Norway, a small charge of another 50 bills may be $4,000. This is not about a non-configure character, for it is about one. But it's about a system where the extra cost is the multiple of the original amount, and the extra cost is so big that it tilts the economy. That's a little bit fair or correct. Responsible lending practices and credit issues are important and necessary pieces in society, and the general rule is that people make up for themselves. A modern society needs a well-functioning debt collection system in which a trust in concluded agreements can be established, where one can take credit risk, and one needs an effective debt collection system to help debtors settle. Why does it cost 700 SEK plus VAT in Norway, 180 SEK in Sweden and about 140 SEK in Finland? And why does Norway have more debt collection issues than our neighbours in Sweden, and this even though Sweden has twice as many inhabitants? It is a historical fact that Norwegian companies are the fastest in Europe to involve debt collection agencies in outstanding invoices, and that the debt ratio is higher in Norway than in our neighbouring countries. So Norway is at the top of debt statistics, at the top of debt collection, at the top of debt collection and at the top of debt collection. There is no reason to rejoice in these top loads. We were at the Stortinget: Something has to be done; it has to be done now. A Joint Judicial Committee asked the Government to ‘implement the measures necessary to ensure that the level of interest rates in the collection industry is regulated’. This was an unusually clear speech from Stortinget. The government's answer was to freeze the collection fee of NOK 700, so it didn't increase by NOK 30. However, in the case of the other bets, the writing fee for the debt collection companies is increased by 20 kroner to NOK 1 150, and the fee for expenses that goes to the landlord increased by 34 kroner to NOK 1 955. This is how it was isolated, however, an increase for the debtor. After several meetings with businessmen, I know that there is a great difference between collection companies, and it is not that the large ones are better than the small ones. There's a lot of variation here. The irony is that those who send most cases to the reputable, tend most, in fact, over twice the fee. There is a reason to ask: Why were the other fees not frozen? A write-salary of $1150 could not possibly reflect actual expenditure in our digitized value. Only in 2018 represented the writing fee on its own at the top of 502 million. kr in income of collecting societies. It is difficult to see that the Storting's willingness to reduce costs has been followed up with action. Rightly, a working group has also been set up to look at and, where appropriate, propose changes to: the arrangements for the organisation and responsibility of the collection agency; debt collection and collection services, including payroll and good collection services the rules on the recovery of out-of-court collection costs under the collection law and the collection regulation; The group shall deliver the option in 2020. Then it will be implemented at the earliest in 2021. And not a single measure is put into action that slows down the urge to take the shortest distance from the fake, unpaid claims to recover from the offender. On the contrary: when the collection fee is settled, while the transfer to the tax collector pays even more, then probably more of this road. But the most important question to ask is: Is it really right to send small demands to the namman? In my view, there is an abuse of the resources of the community, and the trust of the police is under pressure. Ordinary people see that winnings and power-breaking works are destroyed, while the police are going to use resources to drive a fifty-counter. This is also pointed out by, among others. Consumer Council. It is necessary to specify a second, possibly an extension of the mandate, so that the working group can handle this particular topic explicitly. Another important point is: Does the working group take into account the underlying reasons why debt collection is growing at record speed? Has anything happened to the willingness to pay, credit is more common than before, or is it too easy to get loans and credit or to buy it on payment? We also order more and more online. Electronic signing may have come to be, but what does it do that a not need to bribe an hour, wait a bit, go to the bank and look someone in the eye to get new credit or loan? The debt register was clear in 2013 from us red-green, but was not introduced for ideological reasons. It was supposed to be in private. This meant that it only comes now, long in overtime. The debt register would have been a good tool to slow down the development of debt. We also know that losing work, divorce and physical or mental illness are the most common causes of a debt crisis. Example of one still being hospitalized when the bill goes to debt collection, makes it go down cold on my back. What kind of society have we got? Questions that arise are: Is it entirely right to send missing payment for medical visits or medical costs due to a lack of ability to pay to legal recovery? Should one not have received a reasonable payment either? Can a person find good ideas across our neighboring countries? Sweden has a queue for draw in wages. In Finland, liabilities over 15 years have been deleted. Perhaps a quick track with pay cuts for small amounts without going through the payroll would have been a dangerous road? It is important to ensure that people with high wages still have to sustain their lives. Maybe the percentage move instead of subtraction will be the solution, such as: The luxury case has been proposed. If you are overdrawn, you have a right to complain, but it takes four weeks for you to get an answer. It's unacceptably long not to have enough for their family to live. This is where it has to be. We have a debt collection law that was created for another time, as the post office was the only way to deliver it. Today, the collecting societies have fulfilled their obligation only to send the claim in the mail to the address you once entered. Promises don't take into account less frequency in post-transmission and a people who change homes much more often in life. The mailbox is not in use, while the mobile phone is ubiquitous. And ALTINN works well for tax at least. It is also difficult to understand why the total cost of not paying on maturity cannot be given. And shouldn't there be incentives in place for companies to select the debt collection company that takes the least charge? Credit card debt is growing at record speed. According to the Debt Victims Alliance, the issues that grew most, just credit card debt, and a take up new credit card debt to pay down old ones. It's a bad and dangerous spiral. Nor has a rice been introduced behind the mirror for banks or credit companies that have checked the payment methods with harelab. Aggressive marketing also continues as before. Only by working on this matter have I received as many loans as I have never received in these days. I look forward to hearing the views of the Council of State on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e1803	All indications are that the collection costs have decreased considerably over the years, not least due to the efficiency of digitisation. In particular, for small requirements, collection salaries may still appear to be disproportionate. This was one of the reasons why the Ministry of Justice and Security last October – and before this became a topic in the media – set up a separate working group to review the collection policy. The question of salaries is part of this work, but it is not the only topic. There was also an overall Judicial Committee which, on 10 December 2018, asked the Government to put in place the measures necessary to ensure that the level of the collection costs is reduced. For the sake of order, I would like to make it clear that the Committee on Legal Affairs did not request immediate action. The change in the debt collection code has an equally high priority in the ministry. I can confirm that the government wants to change the legislation so that the collection rooms are put down. The working group shall have a time limit of 1 January to complete its work. In the light of the usual time-limits for legal investigations and the extensive mandate of the working group, it is necessary to be able to categorize the time limit in a less than one year as short. I also think it is positive that both the Consumer Council, the Financial Supervisory Board, Finance Norway and Works have joined the working group. On 20 December 2018, the Council of State decided to freeze the collection recovery rate by amending the collection regulation. The freezing of collection rates was a temporary measure which could be implemented quickly, pending a more extensive legislative and regulatory change. It may be tempting to propose rapid changes in the light of media postings. However, I believe it is important that an industry also has predictability, and that changes that are made should be made in the light of the overall understanding and knowledge of the consequences that are coming. Therefore, I have not wanted to resort to quick solutions, but at the same time have signaled to the industry that there will be changes. There is a need for a thorough investigation into the future of the regulation of collection rooms, where changes in the regulation of collection rooms are seen in the context of other possible legislative and regulatory changes. At this stage, before the work group has completed its report and the report has been consulted, it is not natural that I should express more concrete views on how the regulation of collection salaries should be. As far as collecting societies are concerned, I can inform you that the terms of reference of the working group were extended in January, so that the working group looks at the fees due to collecting societies when sending cases to the tax collector. A reduction in these fees will make it less profitable to communicate the cases to the facilitator. The question of the requirement of good debt collection should be clarified and has been a comprehensive part of the working group’s mandate since the creation of the working group in October. In addition, after extension of the mandate, the working group shall also consider whether the collection agency law should provide for the imposition of administrative penalties other than those at present. An authorisation to impose administrative sanctions such as: the infringement fee could prevent the collection activities from being carried out in breach of law and regulation and would increase the effectiveness of supervision by the Financial Supervisory Authority and provide for more effective penalties than at present. Finally, I would like to stress that the legislation on collection and other recovery of claims is important for both debtors who have not paid in due time, for creditors, for industry and the Norwegian economy in general. It is essential that significant changes to the collection of debt collection legislation are properly investigated and that sound investigation requirements also follow from the investigation manual. As mentioned above, changes in salaries must be seen in the context of other possible regulatory changes which could also be significant. I agree that the legislation should be amended, but it must be done in the light of normal and sound legal work.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e1830	I agree that long-term framework conditions are important, but the intention of the Justice Committee was probably not that one should wait many years before a change came about. The debt collection industry has a pretty good reputation. "Cowboy business" is what we often hear, but we're not going to cut everyone over one comb. I have had several meetings with different debt collection companies and with different tax collectors, and there are great variations in form and content. I have received a good example of debt collection company that behaves neatly and gets good arrangements, and then the other person takes the quickest road to the tax collector. Nor is it the case that the big ones have a better reputation than the small ones. I almost have to say the opposite. Where compliance with a good debt collection policy is involved, it must be taken into account. We can only do that. The number of contacts has to be specified – too much and too little, it's not enough, as a wise lady once said, and I'm completely in agreement. It may also not be so that a ringing occurs once per demand. If you have a lot of things in the same company, they need to be coordinated, and you need to know the most serious thing first. The requirement to send a message to an address that was once required is not enough. That's not good enough. The mail transport is in full change. The mailbox is not as it was once. And if you have forgotten to change the address when you have moved, you are lying thin because the debt collection companies have followed up their obligations by just sending the letter. Then a few situations like this could lead to salary cuts without you knowing that there was an unpaid claim. I think that's the only way that we don't want it either. I want to focus a little on how the debt collection company pays off what is paid for, because there is a lot of creativity out here and going. In case of high requirements, e.g. a consumption loan of NOK 200000, which goes to debt collection, becomes an offer of four instalments and has to pay an extra NOK 1000 to sign a debt note. This can then be impossible within good collection procedures and justice. You must be offered a refund that is appropriate for your payment. And when one pays the fee first and not the principal, the claim will continue to grow. There must be crystal clear rules in place for the head chair to be paid down first. Finally, I want to pay back for this: a refund to the creditor against the debt collection agency being given the assignment, should simply be banned. I look forward to the further debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e1845	I think the representative shows a great commitment and a great insight into the challenges that are there. The representative deserves all credit for it and to provide good descriptions of many of the challenges that are there. My starting point is not that I disagree, neither in the descriptions nor in the indications of where you go, but that you have to do this in a proper and proper way. It was brought out by the representative in her posts that there were many other issues involved – the growth of consumer loans, credit card usage, etc. It's just these things that make it necessary to really figure things out. Other proposals are also under way, and other investigations, such as: in the case of the Financial Contracts Act. There are also other proposals that link this in a whole range of ways. So I'll once again give the representative honor for descriptions and commitment. I don't want to say in any way that I disagree with that. But the starting point here is simply to do the job properly and properly, as it should be done. After all, all the things that are important for the Norwegian economy, and it is important for the business community, which is going to get their claims recovered. It is also important, to a large extent, for all the jobs associated with the collection industry that this is handled seriously and properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e1854	First, I would like to thank the representative Heggø, who addresses this important matter. Do your duty, demand your right – it is a slogan the movement of workers is proud of. Among the obligations is to settle separately, both materially and intangiblely. I still remember my grandmother's devastation if I had borrowed anything – it could be a book or a baking cup – and not returned it to the right time. That's what we were supposed to do. And of course, we're going to pay back what we owe, and we're going to pay what we buy. There's no doubt about it. Nevertheless, we have to ask ourselves whether we treat people who cannot be treated in a non-discriminatory way. I therefore have three questions that I hope the Council of State will consider and possibly comment in their summary: One is whether he will consider intensifying the obligation of health and social workers to make professional assessments of the ability to pay for people who are being treated in hospital, in permanent doctors, etc. The second is to consider amending the collection rules so that small amounts, e.g.: less than SEK 700, cannot be forwarded to the facilitator. And the third is to consider changing the rules for when a notice is considered to have been given to the debtor, and that was also the representative Heggo inward. I think this would have been an important step, because some people have suffering or diseases that make them unable to house their lives for a short or longer time. There may be people who have other things that fill their lives, such as the dependence on drugs or mental illness that make the world's daily understanding something completely different, something incomprehensible and painful. Or it is persistently poor, sick, or infirm who have many gaps to absorb too few resources and who live with persistent living conditions stress. Many of these end up in financial ruin, either because they don't pay the bills in hospitals, the rent to the municipality or the power to the power supply. I have met many of them in my work with addicts and mentally ill. Someone grew up in the home with life-stress like a persistent fog over everyday life, where as a child bravely said that “it does nothing” when the parents told them that they couldn’t give their comrade their gifts on birthday, celebrate birthday themselves, go on vacation or go to the zoo. Today, the proportion of children growing up in poverty is increasing. Government policies are increasing the differences between people, the rich are getting richer, and the poor are getting poorer. Is it not time to assess the practice of debt collection? Those who have to pay should pay, but we should get arrangements for those who are unable to pay because of sickness or poverty. At the hospital where I worked, I sent questions to the clinical ethics committee asking for an assessment of whether it was professional-ethical right to send debt collection claims to patients with severe dependence or mental illness that affected the household's ability. The response from the Clinical Ethics Committee was clear – it was against the professional medical ethics and the value base of the hospital to have a general mechanism for collection. So now we see a growth in the proportion of poor and persistent low-income families and an increase in collection requirements. So I repeat my three questions, and I hope that the minister can reflect around these questions, which are actually about ethics and morality in public administration, and about those who don't have the ability to pay the community they say they should. Can the Council of State consider stepping up the professional assessment of the ability to pay by health and social workers for persons who are in need of hospital or permanent treatment and who are seriously ill? The Council of State will consider amending the collection rules in such a way that small amounts, e.g.: less than NOK 700, cannot be forwarded to the tax collector for collection and result in amounts that, as the representative Heggø said, may be several thousand kroner? And can the Council of State reflect on whether it is possible to change the rules for when a notice is deemed to have been served on the debtor? We also need administrative arrangements that can distinguish between those who can pay and those who can't pay.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e1884	At the start of the meeting today, I promoted a proposal for a representative on a fairer collection and various measures to prevent multiple ports from falling into debt. This interpellant debate is about it, and the interpellant and the others who have had posts have been involved in many of the points. So it's a matter of reducing the number of debts they can't pay, and it's a goal of ensuring that those who cover debts actually have the opportunity to pay off the debts they've incurred. The system we have today is such that you lend to people who would never have had it and can't afford it, and the collection makes the debt increase so much that it will be completely impossible for many people to pay it, in addition to, as the representative Henriksen talked about, the perfectly obvious health problems that some people have, that make this go completely into the ball. We've also looked at the earnings that are now in the debt collection business. On 20 January, the Evening Item could report that six of the debt collection companies have an average return on equity of 40-75 pst. annual after tax. There is, in fact, no competitive situation since the rates are regulated. So this is an industry that now has a totally unreasonable return, and of course, that's why more investors want to make money. This is going to continue if we don't intervene in politics. The debt collection industry has, as many have said, benefited from the efficiency gains resulting from digitisation, so here's really reason to lower the rates, because it's completely unreasonable for someone to make such money on people's debt. It also means that the debtor receives a cost that is both unreasonable and impossible to pay. Then both the person and society are injured. Several have also mentioned that there are increasing numbers of cases. There's been an increase of 25 pst. The last two years, and most of the requirements that come in, are very small. The question then is whether it is reasonable that this should be able to go to debt collection agency. That is why the proposals we have made today are about how to lower collection fees. It is about how to regulate the level of maximum rates applied in connection with debt collection activities. And it's about investigating a lower limit on claims that can be enforced through the forced sale of real estate or the share of housing rights. One of the problems is that if you, for example, have not been able to pay the medical bill, you may end up losing the dwelling in a situation where you are very ill. Therefore, what can be achieved through the forced sale of dwellings and such necessary assets should be considered in absolute terms – that there are no small sums ending up like this. We also want to impose an unsecured debt deposit agency that is granted after a simplified credit rating. So, if you lend money to people you can't afford to pay or have a lot of debt from before, you have to bear that risk by running a real estate fund. Then the fees are lower, and maybe more then think about before they throw loans at people who would never have had it. In addition, we are asking for a ban on the sale of unsecured debts given after such a simplified assessment, to amend the rules on enforcement, so that it can be opened so that the offender can reject de minimis claims, an amount limit on what can be enforced, and to allow for small claims against a person to be collected in order to reach an amount limit – at least before doing anything. Furthermore, there is an investigation into credit market regulation – it came in 2016. It's about banning bait advantages by taking up credit. So, use this credit card and do what you can't afford – and you get a decoy discount, but you can't afford to pay it. That should not be possible. Finally, we are asking that a proportion of health services be treated as a self-incasso and that such defaulted debt should not lead to forced sale of housing. The Judicial Committee is given good opportunities to discuss these matters and give direction to them – because it is necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e1903	I would also like to thank the interpellant Ingrid Hegø for travelling an important interpellation. I thought all the posts here today have been very good. To the last thing that Karin Andersen refers to, and that Kari Henriksen was also talking about: this is a question we're dealing with in the Justice Committee, but there are also a lot of other professional committees in their area, so it's very important to get such a big deal in this debate. The Justice Committee was, perhaps a little surprising, in agreement with its budgetary position before Christmas. I think it's absolutely positive that the Minister of Justice is so clear that the legislation should change, and then we might be a little different at the pace, etc. It is not entirely unusual when the government cuts down either selection or working group slightly because of the priority it has, for example, that one. allows a group or a selection to work with sub-configurations. There might be a way to do something faster. The Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights wrote in the budget setting, including: att «it is important that debt collection regulation enables confidence in concluded agreements to be established, that credit risk can be taken and that it contributes to the settlement of debtors. Nevertheless, the Committee considers that the current rates in the Norwegian collection industry are too high.» I'm sure you'll agree. Compared to other countries in the Nordic region, we are significantly higher, as the interpellant also mentions. Difor asked the Committee ‘the government to implement the measures necessary to ensure that the level of collection rates is reduced.’;» As we have seen, we are a few, and I have suggested that the Minister of Justice will follow up. I also agree with the interpellant that it is entirely illogical to have such a high writing school today as the digital time for the longest has come, and I also want to give full support to all those who say that we have to look at the small requirements that become unreasonably large. As I believe it is important to be able to adjust the mandate given to this working group. As a justice politician, a question about resource use should also be asked, just as the interpellant is concerned — whether it is right that the police should take time to collect such small demands. We have also received some input from the Consumer Council. Worker party is a consumer party. We meet a lot of consumer representatives very often. A recording they've made, I'd like to mention it. It's about something you call 'pay back'. The Consumer Council says that the downgraded working group should be entrusted with the task of assessing actions in the light of the theme supervision of the Financial Supervisory Board on what they call ‘pay back’. The oversight was initiated in October 2018, and there will be a report on it in the near summer. «Pay back» is described by the Consumer Council as a refund from the debt collection agency to the creditor against the debt collection agency being given the debt collection contract. Repayment is an agreed sum, such as: may be the expenditure incurred by the creditor with his own attempts to assert outstanding claims. According to the Consumer Council, it is suspected that ‘pay back’ favours in both the public and private sectors, even though the public sector has chemist offices that could carry out this recovery. They indicate that one in Sweden has detected a case where the debt collection agency has NOK 250 in so-called ‘pay back’. What is the status in Norway, according to the Consumer Council, is currently not known, but I also believe that there is something that this working group should definitely look at, and it should strictly not be allowed. Otherwise, I think the points that Ingrid Heggø picks up when it's related to the marketing of credit are very important. Wara refers to the work on financial agreements elova – we also have an eye on that. It's a fact that today's aggressive marketing of credit is a huge problem. I would also like to say, although I am not against this working group, that it is possible to look at individual elements of these challenges, for example. in part, so that one does not have to wait for several years before dealing with some of these problems, which are serious for many.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e1926	There is a alarmingly high level of debt in Norway, and it affects the collection industry. Yesterday, there was a new profitability figure for banks from the Financial Supervisory Authority, as well as debt developments. Fortunately, private borrowing, but what we don't take less of, is consumption loans. Also in 2018 it increased by 10 pst., and it worries. Consumption loans have a function in our society, but the Labour Party is concerned about the lack of the good credit rating to be given before a loan is issued – the good craft that very many are good at in our banking, but many are now failing. I very much agree with the representative Karin Andersen when she talks about those who should not have received a loan. A study of June last year, conducted by the Financial Supervisory Authority, showed that 36 p.m. of all consumer loans granted were granted without an adequate and good credit rating. It puts people in big trouble. Those who get debt they can't afford to pay back report back a lot of mental and physical health problems that are increasing. So we have a social problem. It is hopeless that we have waited so long for a register of unregistered debts, consumer loans. We hope it can come into operation from summer. We were on our way to establish it before we got a government change in 2013. We are very pleased with the regulation that came on February 12th, and it's important to get hold of those who continue to break the rules for a good credit rating. What the new figures from yesterday also showed is that the default of consumption loans is increasing, that's over 7 pst. Disadvantages in consumer loans will often be credit card debt, 45 p.m. of the consumption loans are, and they will be sent to the collection agency. Standard requirements are paid there, but there is a very wide variation in the service provided by debt collection companies. There is a requirement for personal contact, but there are variations between good, good debt collection companies that act neatly and get good arrangements for the debtors, and others who take the fastest way out for the same payment. A great many of the demands will be made by the man in charge. This isn't where the market works. It's not like the nicest debt collection companies make the most money. Then it has to be regulated in such a way that the social economy also becomes the business economy profitable. In order to ensure that you do not go to debt collection early, the creditor can be charged some of the responsibility for the collection agency's fees; now everything is due. The evolution of social expenditure in debt collection is worrying. It's not like the original creditors are getting more money, it's the debt collection agencies that have increased their profits, and there's a lot of fate behind the cases. It's important that we keep our trust in our collection system, and that we therefore allow the savings that digitisation has given to us, to be expressed in the salaries we give us the opportunity to take. We are politicians who set these rates and who have helped to create a market that is not working now. It should be profitable to work well in debt collection, so that you can also save the police to spend time on collection. They have a lot more important tasks to deal with, and it's also important for the trust of our police.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e1941	I would like to thank you for a good debate, many good speeches and good suggestions that have come. It's a little sad that the government has not participated in the debate. I would also like to thank the Council of State for good words and good intentions – and we are still a little bit confused about the speed. I want to sum up what I expect the working group to work with in the future. The first is that the mandate must be extended in such a way that one set of stops can be sent to the debt collector. And we need to get our own collection rules for disease, for example. unpaid medical visits. The appeal time for high pay must be taken into consideration; it must be reduced substantially. Writing instruction must be markedly cut and should reflect actual costs. This has certainly all been in here today. The total cost of not paying to maturity should be reported in a debt collection notice. And then a few incentives need to be given to companies that choose the debt collection company that has the least fee, for example. in the case of debt-sharing between the enterprise and the debtor – and not least the representative Lyngedal was in: rice behind the mirror if loans, credit, are given without due consideration. I wasn't much into it in my post, but a lower limit and conditions on the relationships at the coercion hall of the house and at home thought I was a very good idea to include in this group. The representative who said 'pay back', whom I also mentioned, I really hope the Council of State will take with me and get something done with it, because it should come to an end. I hope that the representative Henriksen will also receive an answer to the three questions that were asked. As Wågslid also pointed out, it is possible to provide a sub-position from a working group, which can be taken in the process. Now I would argue that shortening the appeal time could all be arranged, and something should be done about it immediately. The writing lesson should also have been reduced immediately; it would have been immediate that had made a difference.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e1957	I have to say that I think it has been a very good and interesting debate. It's been useful, there's been a lot of commitment, to representatives who have shown insight and commitment to entering into the details of this. So, of course, I wish I could answer all the questions now, but I'd be careful to say that at this point I won't reject any of them. We've now reduced a sample to investigate this, and it's not a sample that's going to work for a long time. Part of the debate raises issues that the sample should not consider, just as has been said. This applies, for example: a general debate on growth in consumer loans, credit card use – the things we will consider independently, and before waiting for the sample. Here the assessments are in progress. It happens a little bit in different departments. Something is the responsibility of the Minister of Finance through its regulation – and the Financial Supervisory Authority. Something will come into the Financial Contracts Act. Despite the fact that we want to get a proper investigation into the collection industry, there are many other issues that are related to this, which we are working on further, and the Storting will receive continuous information on how we view it. Finally, I also think that in this criticism of debt collection companies it is important to stress that we must be careful not to take all debt collection companies together, there are many who do a good job. The debt collection companies have a job on behalf of creditors, and there may be many good reasons why creditors should have their claim recovered. There are a lot of people working in debt collection companies, and that's how these kind of general things are about the payment morality that we expect. That's why it's necessary to investigate and see these things in a larger context, even though I also understand the simple stories – sometimes it seems completely unreasonable to me how small amounts become enormously large. I don't have any difficulty seeing it, and I don't have any difficulty understanding the challenges that health professionals are facing, etc. But there is more to it than a single person who is responsible for the government and responsible for the government. You have to – I kept saying – do that job properly, take the investigation instructions seriously, make a law investigation and come back, because after all, there are many people working in the industry, and there are many people who have problems paying back. We have to make sure that we take the right steps that give good effect to what we want to achieve.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e1968	The debate on substance is closed. So 7 is over. At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Energy and the Environment. 8 and 9 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e1997	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that up to seven lines of reply are given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e2006	We're dealing with two things today. One is the proposal from the Green Party, the Centre Party and the Left to set up a Urban Landing Act for Townmarka in Trondheim. And then we're dealing with a proposal from the government to make changes to the law. The Marka Act has been a huge success. It has been important to ensure Oslomarka for the future. It is perhaps the most important open-air area for as many people as possible in Norway. This is precisely why the Workers' Party believes that it could have been a good idea to make similar decisions for the other urban areas as well. Localisation ensures important areas both for nature and for people. The Workers' Party, together with the Swedish Environment Party and the Greens' Party, therefore agreed that a near-nature law should be put in place to ensure it. Unfortunately, the Storting voted no to a year ago. We thought it was a better proposal than going straight to asking for a concrete proposal for exactly Trondheim. That is the reason why the Labour Party is voting against this today. Today, only the SV and the Greens will vote in favour of the proposal. The left will also vote against the proposal which they themselves have made here in the Grand Duchy. So it's the proposal to make changes to the law. It contains three different things. The first is border adjustment in the municipality of Lunner and the municipality of Nittedal. Both of these proposals make sense, and they support the municipalities in question, so we're going to support both of them. The second is that the Storting should make it easier for the government to break or adjust the Marking Act. The Labour Party is going to go against this proposal. We believe that it should not be easier to break the boundaries of government. We believe that the government argues badly for this. We think the system as it is today works well. It has been implemented 47 border adjustments since the law was passed. We believe that it is a good illustration that today's system works. There is also room to change the boundaries if one believes that there are important social interests that warrant it. For example, we did. when we built a new emergency centre in the municipality of Oppegård. But we're against making it easier for the government to make those changes itself. We believe that they should come to the Storting. I have to say that it is surprising that there is an Environment Minister from the Left who agrees to propose this very thing. The third proposal we are dealing with is the use of electric bicycles. We think it's good that more and more people get electric bicycles. Electric bicycles are a good means of transport, and it's great if it's used in a way that more people get into nature. We think it's good if people want to use electric bicycles in the Marka where there are roads or dirt roads, or other places where it's proper. We don't think it's right that we open up to electric bicycles on paths. Electric bicycles will cause greater wear both in nature and in the open air. So we're going to go towards this change. It is also the recommendation from the Municipality of Oslo, from the Council of Marka, how many of the municipalities and several of the organisations are in place, and from the outdoor organisations. The government has chosen to ignore the rather unambiguous advice that has come, overrun them and despite the resistance that has come. It is also such that local landowners can make their limitations in the areas. Therefore, we will be able to have different rules depending on where in the Marka you are. It won't be easier either for people or for nature. With that, I take up the proposal of the Labour Party, SV and the Environment Party of the Greens.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e2021	The representative of Åsmund Aukrust has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e2026	Today, we are dealing with changes to the Marka Act. There may be practical and good reasons to ease the treatment of less restrictive border adjustments related to the mark line, but the centre party is critical of the proposal for a change in the mark line § 2 second paragraph of the Proposition, where we interpret it to give a more general opportunity to extend the mark line by deleting the word ‘adjustment’. This change appears to open the door to major border changes without the size being returned to treatment. The intention of the amendment to the law is to the extent okay, but we believe that the wording of the law is more open to making major changes, as the proposal is now formulated. Therefore, the Centre Party today opposes the amendments proposed in the second paragraph of Section 2. The legislative proposal involves changes concerning access to restrictive mark-up adjustments by regulation. It is not the so-called limiting limit adjustments for the mark limit in the proposal for a new third and fourth subparagraphs of the proposal that is the biggest problem in terms of land conflicts in press areas. The centre party considers it essential that the protection of cultivated land is maintained and enforced in these areas. It is therefore important to take into account the consultations that have taken place in this context. Several of the consultations point out that the legislative proposal should include precisely agricultural interests as a consideration in the assessment of ‘less restrictive’ border adjustments to the mark limit in the proposal for a new fourth paragraph. The centre party supports the hearing recordings that have come here. Cultivated land and agricultural property are under a lot of pressure, and one should take seriously that it's just about 3 pst. of the land area in Norway which has been cultivated. Despite all this earth's coming generations are going to use to produce safe and clean Norwegian food. There may be a conflict between Marka and agricultural areas by the inappropriate closeness of farm use with this location to residential and commercial buildings. There is active agriculture near the Marka in several of these areas. It is therefore important for the Central Party that the legislator expresses the value of farming in these areas and that there is a willingness to facilitate a low level of conflict between Marka, residential and industrial areas and agriculture. The Centre therefore proposes that agricultural interests within Marka should also be maintained. There has also been a discussion about the use of electric bicycles in Marka. The centre party considers that Marka should, as far as possible, be assimilated to other fields at this point, and therefore does not see the need to exempt paths when allowing the use of electric bicycles on routes. However, we would also like to point out that municipalities should have the opportunity to further regulate the use of driving with electric bicycles, based on local circumstances. It is also being dealt with today on a matter of a separate law for Bymarka in Trondheim. The central party will only point out here that the spatial and regulatory authority is an important municipal tool to direct local social development in line with the intention of the local population elected. The centre party believes that we should have confidence that local politicians can manage their urban land the best. It is, in fact, about democracy and not least about the fact that local elected representatives are best placed to make such decisions. The fact that the Stortinge will make state regulations for any urban area is evidence of little trust in those who work locally as elected people, and what they are set to do. Local autonomy in such matters is important. This is why the Central Party is opposed to the Stortinge making overall state regulations that deprive local politicians in Trondheim of the opportunity and the confidence they should have in managing it themselves, as local elected representatives. With that, I take up the proposal of the Centre Party in case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e2045	The representative Sandra Borch has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e2050	Some of what I remember well from my childhood in Trondheim is early Sunday mornings – in all kinds of weather – out on tour in Bymarka, the city's green lung. It could be skiing, Sunday or berry skiing. For a five-year-old the tours were infinitely long and Bymarka was infinitely difficult. It was only when I met Oslomarka a good few years later that I realized that Bymarka in Trondheim is actually a small stamp. But it's a valuable postage stamp, and I'm watching the claim that with its poor 83 square kilometers, Citymark is far wider than the 20 times larger Oslomarka. The town of Trondheim extends from the spring to something that must be called snowflake. Within quite short distances, you can fish cod, hunt for frost and study mountain plants. Many Norwegian cities have beautiful natural areas in their immediate vicinity, which give us opportunities for short-haul nature experiences. At the same time, they are under increasing pressure today. The town of Trondheim is no exception. Although the city government has adopted a red line around the field, we see that natural values are being challenged – the last time with the city government in Trondheim's wish to build a new Alpine facility in the areas that were agreed to ensure the best possible. Today, there shall be no more than one city council decision to intervene heavily in the Urban Region. For this reason, three large-scale representatives, all of whom were born and raised in Trondheim, promoted a proposal to give Bymarka stronger national protection. Unfortunately, although the proposal is being put to the vote today, I do not intend to give up, because, as we will see in another case a little later today, it is important to stand on and not give up at the first sword. This discussion is just the starting point for the work of giving Citymarka in Trondheim the protection it needs, and it deserves – as Oslomarka received ten years ago. It brings me to the other matter we are dealing with today, namely, the changes in the law on marks. This year we celebrate the 10th anniversary of the Marka Act, the law that provides Oslomarka with a very special protection. We that use Marka, use it in different ways. Some people go, some jump, some bikes, and it's incredibly important that we make sure that one group's use does not go beyond the other group's use. The use of electric bicycles on the roads in Marka is rarely a problem. On the contrary, there is a good opportunity for more people to get out and enjoy the amazing nature. But when the government now in practice opens up the possibility of using electric bicycles everywhere, including on the paths, we easily encounter conflicts with walking. On a good day, you can experience cycling, running or skiing through several counties and municipalities that all have their own part of Marka. Simplification is something we often hear as the justification of this government for different measures. Well, for a single tourer or cyclist, it's not easy to deal with different rules in Marka's many municipalities. Luckily, you rarely see the municipal boundaries when you're out on the road, and you don't know if you've entered a municipality where it's allowed or where it's banned with a driving bike on the road. It should be a goal to have as equal a rule as possible for the use of Oslomarka, not open to the inequality and distortion that the government is now putting up for the many Marka users. With that I also address the SV's proposal in case no. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e2069	The representative Lars Haltbrecken has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e2074	There we heard one of the most credible political promises there is, namely that Lars Haltbrecken should not surrender. It's a promise he's going to keep. We know that. We'll deal with two things. One applies to a proposition from the government. The second concerns a proposal for a representative. Both deal with each of their fields – each man's field, as it is called. The proposition from the government is subject to the Marka Act. It deals with the framework for adjustments to the market boundary which may be modified in the Regulation. The point is that Section 2 is amended to make it easier to practice the provision and to increase predictability for municipalities. One is access to restrictive adjustments, where substantial social interests make it necessary. Then a provision is proposed for less restrictive adjustments for cases where the boundary passes through residential property or for other reasons leads to disadvantages for the management of a property and where such adjustment is not detrimental to outdoor life, sport or natural experiences. For this it is to say that the boundaries of the mark are laid down in the law. Preservation of these limits is part of the objective. In 2015, the mark border was adjusted 47 places in eleven municipalities. This was done on the basis of input from municipalities, and it was not in conflict with outdoor life or natural values. Then it was announced that the government would consider further adjustments for climate-friendly housing construction in the vicinity of collective nodes, and it was also announced that Section 2 would be clarified for more predictable treatment. In the debate on this, we have heard that today's legislation can change the mark limit for the sake of essential social interests. The working party, SV about MDG, writes it in its comments. That's wrong. Nor can the land boundary be changed through a State spatial plan. Let me put it this way: in the debate we have had so far, we have heard that that proposal will make it easy to adjust the mark limit so that the mark is reduced, while the centre party on the other hand believes that the problem with the proposal is that the mark limit can be extended too easily. That's where we're in the middle. It seems like a good balance. Then there are also proposed changes in the border in Lunner and in Nittedal. This has met with very few counter-representations, including in the Committee. Finally, in the proposition from the government there is a proposal for electric bicycles in the field – this is based on the fact that electric bicycles with limited wattage and speed differ little from ordinary bicycles. The government proposal will ensure that this regulation of Oslomarka will be at the same legal level as the rest of the country. At the same time, each municipality will be able to adopt a ban on the use of electric bicycles in outland areas in its municipality. Different municipalities will probably solve this differently, while, of course, there is also the opportunity to discuss how best to solve this in the Market Council. As Oslo representative, I believe that I can reasonably safely say that no matter who has a majority in Oslo City Council, it will not be possible in the Municipality of Oslo. With regard to the proposal for urban law in Trondheim, the government parties hold on to the line that it is important to preserve local democracy. We trust that local politicians in Trondheim and the people in Trondheim will take care of matters. They also show that they do so when the Trondheim city government has adopted a map for Trondheim, where the purpose is to secure the land areas around the city for the population of the city.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e2097	As the rapporteur explained in his statement, and as many people have been involved, we are dealing with two issues today, together with several proposals. First and foremost, the Progress Party shares the view of the importance of good natural experiences and the possibility of all inhabitants participating in these natural experiences. In Norway, we have a great nature, it's a nature we take care of, and we have to keep on taking care of it. We do that through protection where there is a need for protection, but not protection for the sake of protection. We do it not least through use and by making nature available to the inhabitants. Often these are also issues that require a certain degree of balance. I think we have managed to balance the different considerations well in these matters – for example. access to the use of electric bicycles in the field. On the one hand, we see a society that is electrified more, and we want to open the field for use. We see that conventional bicycles are more often replaced by electric bicycles, but they don't necessarily have the same legal status. On the other hand, it is also important that those using the field do not feel pressured by other actors. This is a balance that I think we're going to manage in a very good way. I think local politicians will also be able to handle it very well. Finally, I have to say that it is precisely the agreed solutions, the solutions that find good, broad political majority, that are often the best. That there may be minor adjustments where it is appropriate, I think it is right. And we must not allow this debate to evolve into something it is not about. There are no plans to build up the field, privatize it or other bad words that someone might use when you want to paint the damn wall. I think the mark is going to be exactly what it's been for most people in the last few years. I hope this debate is not going to evolve into something it's not about, because it's about most people having good natural experiences even in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e2115	What has been shown by the handling of this matter may not be so very unexpected. The result is that we see that there is quite a broad political uprising about Markalova as a traveler to secure nature and open-air areas in the capital city area. Then we see that there are some shades, because there are some who fear that some of the changes that are now being proposed will add up to too much restriction, and there are some who fear that too many extensions will be added, given the same changes. What has got the most attention, including in public opinion, when the Committee has dealt with these matters, is the question of whether to slow down the use of electric bicycles on the road, or whether to slow down for electric bicycles on the road – or, to put it another way: whether that braking should be done in law or in the form of regulations. The background here is that the electric bike is a good one that makes it possible and convenient for more people to get on the road, but that he – like many other good ones – also has some unfortunate sides. I understand a lot of the counter-arguments that have now come from both outdoor organisations, from landowners and municipalities, where one would like to be able to make a distinction between the path and what has been selected with a real gravel cover. This is also done, but by saying that this is something that the municipalities should be able to do and that can be done in the form of regulations. In this way, it gets the same legal regulation in Oslomarka as in the rest of the country. The background here is – again – that one in 2017 opens generally for electric bicycles in outland. Now this gets the same legal regulation. The case spokesperson did well for a part of the debate and part of the discussions in which one has concluded differently whether there is law or regulation to be the instrument, but where one is some about the objective. It's also the case that one in Oslo has given a lot of support for people getting more electric bicycles, but that one has a clear idea of how to use the electric bicycles. That's what I share. The notes allow both Oslo and the other municipalities to set the limits requested by one of them. So when you're on the path and you're on the new Oslomarka, one thing is that this is an area where you can enjoy the good qualities of the forest, with the best possible rough and acidic zone. I think that's a good basis, given the comments and the work the Committee has done here in width. Therefore, I believe this matter should be resolved in a good way with confidence in local processes, when it comes to questions both about Oslo and about Trondheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e2128	First of all, I would like to say that I think it is good that we deal with these two issues at the same time, because it provides a perspective when Trondheim's representatives promote a proposal on how we can manage Citymarka in Trondheim. It's worth listening to, because that means you have some local challenges. Electric bicycles are also a more recent element in nature, and it's probably a bit of a debate that we're going to manage something that changes over time. When cabins turn into dwellings, there are new challenges, because then the rights change, and the municipal law does not always depend on the rights that change because the use is being redispatched. In Bymarka, Trondheim, there is a challenge with mass landfill. The pineapple is well outside today's defined urban area, but one wants to build the Alpine plant within. Sports facilities are essentially something that makes us get out and use and get close to nature. It's good for public health, but some of it also requires space, and it requires new infrastructure. Transport is also part of it. So it's important that we have that perspective and that discussion over time. When are we going to have to introduce new instruments and other frameworks, regulate differently? Therefore, this is a good debate on the need for other instruments at the level of market law in other parts of Norway. But it's clear that it includes so many municipalities that there's a little different in that dimension as well. I think we should take with us that there is something we need to be aware of. The concentration of the population in Norway and the cross-border nature and open-air areas increase the level of joint management. Now Kläbu and Trondheim become one municipality, so it's going to be a larger area to be managed in another community, maybe without it right now being mature because one defines a separate land law for Trondheim, because locally one actually disposes of many of these resources. But there are instruments we have to look at whether anyone other than Oslo is going to intervene with.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e2141	Norway is world famous for its spectacular nature. High mountains, deep fjords and huge, untouched areas are part of our natural heritage. Today, we are finally to adopt unanimously the protection of such a national, coherent, primordial pearl, the Baltic Sea watercourse. That's the next thing, but before that we have to disagree for a little while. We're not going to forget that it's the near-nature we use the most. That's where we pick up – a Russian tour with the dog in the forest cave a gray Tuesday, a Sunday tour skiing to Storheia or a jog tour around Keyklevant. We in the Greens want those who come after us to have the same approach to nature that we have. But as cities grow, the pressure on nature also increases, not because there is no room elsewhere, but because it is cheaper to build here, and because it requires more work and planning to continue well in cities. We need nature in and around our cities. It gives us city dwellers room to pick us up, space to think, space to move freely without commercial interests and pressure – and it's completely free of charge. Nature is breathing space in everyday life, nature is balm for body and soul, nature is public health. In Oslo, the law of the field ensures the possibility of recreation, outdoor experiences and joy also for those who are not even born yet, or for those who may not have moved to Oslo yet. We in the Greens like the Marka Act so much that in 2017 we made a proposal for a national Marka Act for all urban areas, a near-nature law. That proposal was voted against – one, then – but also against the Labour Party, SV and the votes of Red. Yesterday I took the Dovreban from Trondheim to Oslo. I do that quite often, and it is recommended – rather than flying. You get a lot more natural experiences. I have grown up at Bymarka in Trondheim, and I see how actively it is used, but also how tempting it is to build it down. Today, Bymarka in Trondheim is secured against interference through the municipality's land map. As long as the majority of the city council agrees that the border should go where it goes, Citymarka is secured against development. But the majority change, so does the municipal economy, and we have to take that over. The boundaries can be moved by a pen stroke if a narrow majority of the city council decides to do so. The Greens believe Trondheimsmarka deserves as much protection as Oslomarka does. That is why – together with SV and initially Left – we are promoting a proposal for a city marquee law for Trondheim. But the government parties, the Central Party and the Workers' Party believe that Trondheim doesn't need any laws, and vote against our proposal today. The opposition of the Labour Party surprises me a little, precisely because they voted in favour of a near-nature law for the whole country a little while ago. And so today, the Left is voting its own proposal for a city mar ket law for Trondheim, even if they have the Minister for the Environment. Ten years ago, Odelstinget adopted the Marka Act. Only the Right and Advance Party voted against. Left Gunnar Kvassheim referred to the Markalaw as «historical», Odd Einar Dørum concluded that «it is with great joy that the Left will vote for this law», and the Christian People's Party Hans Olav Syversen called the day «a brand day». The fact that the Left today is voting down its own proposal on a law of law for Trondheim adds itself to me in the range of issues in which the junior parties in the government are run over by the Right and the Progress Party in environmental matters. I can't do anything but invite you to break this habit now and let it become the last time it happens. The Right and Advance Party should not get the last word in Norwegian nature policy. Finally, I would like to say a few words about electric bicycles, because today the government parties and the Central Party are also voting to open up electric bicycles on paths in Oslo, despite the fact that both Oslo and Omland Free Air Council, Løvenskiold, Losby Bruk and Oslo Municipality – i.e. the landowners – are pleased that electric bicycles are now allowed on forest roads in Marka. But everyone warns against free slip on paths because it can lead to more wear on the paths and more conflicts between walking and cycling. The Greens are concerned about the same thing, although we wholeheartedly support the opening up of electric bicycles on forest roads. Nevertheless, the government chooses to drum through full release, against the landowners and the wishes of the outdoor organisations. I think that's weird. I honestly find it a little difficult to grasp the government's natural policy by day, because you should think that it was important that the proximity is available as far as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e2162	First of all, a little comment on the Greens' representative, who called for the government's natural policy: then it is good that we should deal with the issue of the Baltic Sea basin afterwards. The Government has submitted a proposal for concrete changes to the mark-up. The government proposes to change the marker limit of the municipalities of Lunner and Nittedal. The background is that in 2015 the government changed the mark limit at 47 places in 11 municipalities. In connection with this change, it was announced that a case should be promoted for the Stortinget to consider taking out larger areas, in particular for climate-friendly housing development. The proposal now presented by the government means that 225 dean are taken out of the fields in the municipality of Lunner and 524 dean are taken out in the municipality of Nittedal. These changes are recorded by the municipalities themselves. In addition, it is proposed to add three sites to Nittedal for a total of 743 beds. The changes are mainly justified by the importance of housing near the collective connecting point as a national policy, and the direction of development is reflected in the regional land and transport plan in Oslo and Akershus. The government also proposes changing the wording of paragraph 2 of the Marka Act so that for the future there will be greater clarity as to when the mark limit can be adjusted by the King in the Council of State. The preservation of the land boundary is one of the purposes of the law, and this was incorporated into the law to prevent the border from being subject to several minor changes over time, which could lead to significant changes in the land as a whole. It is now possible to adjust the limits by regulation according to the Marka Act § 2, but it has been desirable to make this change more predictable. It is this amendment that has now been tabled by the Grand Duchy. The Ministry proposes to specify in more detail what access the King of State Council has to make restrictive border adjustments and that the law be supplemented by criteria in accordance with what is currently apparent from the preparatory work. Restrictive adjustments are proposed after two alternatives: either where significant social interests make it necessary: or where technical adjustments are needed where the current limit creates practical problems for the management of a property It is a condition that this adjustment does not cause significant damage to outdoors, sports or natural experiences. The proposal also includes a proposal to authorise the Ministry to issue regulations allowing the use of electric bicycles in the field. Electric bicycles were allowed in outland in 2017. In the mark, however, it is still prohibited, because the Marka Act § 10 prohibits all motorised travel in the field. This means that such bicycles are prohibited on the terrain and on the road, on the roads, on the roads, on the tractor roads, on the trackways and on similar rags not worked up for the carriage of normal vehicles. I believe that the same rules should apply in the field as in the rest of the country and therefore propose to amend the law on the land, so that the ministry can provide a legal basis for the use of electric bicycles in the field. In principle, I believe that electric bicycles and ordinary bicycles should be equated in the marka. It makes it easy and transparent, and we have few points of view today to believe that the e-cyclists are becoming a bigger challenge in the field than the cyclists in general. However, it is important for me that the Marka municipalities have the possibility to prohibit or restrict the use of electric bicycles, for example. decide that electric bicycles are allowed only on gravel or other fixed decks, either in larger areas or throughout the municipality. I want to make sure that the municipalities get such an authority. In any case, it is clear from the regulations governing the use of motor vehicles in off-road and on ice watercourses that municipalities may decide that the use of electric bicycles is not permitted in specific areas or on specified distances or trajectories. This provision will also apply in the field. This legislative change will hardly bring about any major changes in practice, but will lead to legalisation of the practices that people already follow. Most people don't think they're riding illegal roads in the field. Finally, I would like to comment on the draft representative on a separate urban law for Trondheim. I am concerned that we must have instruments to ensure that urban areas and other neighbourhoods are not degraded. The Planning and Building Act is one of the main instruments in this respect. What we can do is we can make Trondheim and other municipalities aware of the value of the nearby natural areas. It is also out in the municipalities that you have to map your own outdoor areas, as Trondheim has done. In addition, knowledge and information must be readily available to enable municipalities to make informed and good choices in their planning. I also believe that with regard to the neighbourhoods we have around several cities, we should have a more detailed assessment of how we should better take care of them in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e2197	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e2202	First, a explanation of vote: when our proposal is likely to fall afterwards, we will vote in a subsidiary way for the proposal of the Central Party. My question is about electric bicycles. It's a little bit unclear who has actually been the driver of these changes. This has been enforced against the proposals of both the Municipality of Oslo and the Council of Marka. My question to the Council of State is: What kind of recommendation does he have to the Municipality of Oslo on what kind of code the Municipality of Oslo should implement in terms of the use of electric bicycles in Oslo?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e2211	I really think the Municipality of Oslo should decide for itself – it is in this proposal that it is a delegation to the municipalities. We have the same rules for the whole country, and that delegation should also apply here. I believe that exactly this kind of question – where to or from be able to ride a bicycle with an electric bicycle – is something that should be at the municipal level. It is definitely where one has the ability to make the adjustments and assessments of the rules and where. And I am absolutely sure that the municipalities will also be able to cooperate well across the municipal borders in order to make good solutions for this. It applies within Marka, just as it applies to other places with outlanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e2216	The problem is: It is said that it is a delegation to the municipalities, but it is a delegation they have not asked for. They have said that they do not want this possibility; they want national legislation. That's what the Marka Council thinks, that's what the Municipality of Oslo means, that's what all the organizations think. Then we hear Stefan Heggelund say that he can guarantee that almost no matter who sits on the city council in Oslo, this will not be legal because almost all the parties in Oslo have gone against it. My question to the Council of State is: doesn't he see that it can be a little unclear for people what kind of legislation to deal with, when there can be different rules for different borders, and that it doesn't get simpler for people, but actually harder?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e2223	First, the Marka Act applies to 19 municipalities and not just to the Oslo municipality, so there are several local authorities who should express themselves on what authority they should have. That the City Council of Oslo does not want to have delegated powers, I find wonderful. I believe that this is a decision that should be at municipal level, and not that it should be at the level of the Council of State if adjustments are to be made for the use of electric bicycles. Here there are boundaries as to where the worked-up roads should be to lie within the law and whether or not they should be fitted with a fixed deck. Those assessments are best done in the municipalities, and I think this is a delegation that is right. The municipalities should be able to take care of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e2232	Ten years ago, we got the law of the Marka in Oslo, and I want to say that the Left was a good supporter both for the red-green government and for the environmental and outdoor movement to get that matter through in Stortinget. But I need some help from the Council of State to see why he is too strong and well protected by Oslomarka and at the same time against the corresponding protection of the Citymarka in Trondheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e2239	Ten years ago, I was in charge of the Urban Development Committee in Oslo, and Oslo's hearing response to the Marka Act at the time was that one should set state boundaries, but it was a simplified version of the law that is now being assessed, which will give greater local space for action. Today, as Minister for Climate and Environment, I have in many ways regained the role of urban development committee and urban governance in the Marka Act. If you now make a lot of similar laws, I am not sure that the right place for the local individual assessments is in the Ministry of Climate and the Environment and its bureaucracy, because you know that there are many of these local assessments going to be made. I think we're going to work on how and what model you're going to create to get more urban areas and a stronger protection of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e2247	I don't know if it is me, or if it was the answer from the Council of State, but I didn't really understand why Osloda deserves the strong protection it has – fortunately – got through the law of the Marka, and not the city market in Trondheim, which is much smaller than Oslomarka, and thus more exposed to the depression pressure, if the city government wants it – and as we've seen the city council also has, despite the plan they decided in 2002. But let me try to ask in a slightly different way: is it now that the Left's climate and environment minister will only protect areas if the municipalities themselves ask for it? Will you not see the need for protection also in the light of the natural values that lie there?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e2254	Now we've started more processes. It is an ongoing task for municipalities to map their open-air areas. Trondheim has also worked within its areas. We have also launched a process in which all the states now present primarily a professional assessment of supplementary protection, i.e. protective areas. A job will now be done in the Environment Directorate – for which areas protection decisions will be taken. We are also going to deliver a case to the Stortinget in 2020 on marine protected areas. So there are processes in progress in several areas. Today, we have also received the Technical Council of the Environment Directorate on a possible national park in East Marka. So there are many processes going on that deal with protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e2261	We know that any changes to the boundaries of the land could have consequences for some agricultural interests in the area, and the consultation input of the agricultural organisations just expressed concern about it. What will the Council of State do to ensure the management of agricultural interests adjacent to the land borders and to take account of them, and why is it not assessed to take that into account in the legislative text?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e2266	The change in Section 2 is about clarifying restrictive limit changes. What we're doing is we're raising the threshold on one, that is, you're going to have essential social interests as the reason for being able to have a restrictive change. And then it's about minor changes. So I think there's nothing specific here that would indicate that this change will be some threat to agricultural land.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e2273	The proposal for an urban land law for Trondheim was originally promoted by the Green, SV and Left Environmental Party, and then it's a bit of a special story, which I still haven't quite understood, as to why the Left now chooses to vote down the proposal. But we see that the Council of State in a letter to the Energy and Environment Committee argues against a law of law for Trondheim, and he writes that the best protection of nature in Trondheim can have are conscious municipal politicians with a ownership and a commitment to marka. It is easy to agree with an ideal situation, but we are constantly ignoring the fact that municipal politicians are also being pressured. Providing the neighbourhood of cities with national protection also contributes to giving the visibility and status that can make local politicians proud of the mark. And I see here a lot of parallels to food protection. My question, as the Left was in favour of the Oslomarka Act, is whether there are qualities at Trondheimsmarka that are missing.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e2282	No – it's the story that's behind the law on the ground. It's been there for a very long time. The Marka lies within 19 municipalities, and there was a need in particular to set the boundaries of the field and do it in the form of law. But at the time of the adoption of the Marka Act, there was also a debate on its content. The hearing opinion, for example: from Oslo was a simpler version of the law that was finally passed in Stortinget. There is no doubt that the Marka Act is also quite circumstantial and places a lot of responsibility on the Ministry of Climate and Environment, which may also have shifting political direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e2289	One aspect of national protection or that this should be up to the local level is the visibility, the duration of protection granted to it, which means that changing political majority and economic situation in the municipality should not eat more and more of the land. Something else that I think is an interesting perspective, which I could imagine the Council of State is reflecting a little bit on, is the national considerations, the national interests of people actually having a neighbourhood and a neighbourhood. And there's public health the best example. Which I started a little bit with instead: one of the things that is unique with such a proximity to the cities, which we have quite a lot of in Norway, and which we're going to take good care of, is that people are completely independent of economics and completely independent of health, otherwise have an opportunity for outdoor experiences that allow them to get a break from the city's kjas and mass, but also experience mastering by using the body and being happy in Norwegian nature. My question is really whether the Council of State can agree that it has national interest to take care of the near-nature.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e2298	Yes. And that's exactly why we've asked all the municipalities to map their outdoor areas. We have also launched an action plan on outdoor life, which was presented last summer, which will also be followed up. So there's no doubt that caring for natural areas both in the city and near the city is very important. We must continue to work on it, also in cooperation with the municipalities, and we must also follow up the action plan we have put forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e2303	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e2310	I've grown up almost in Bymarka – I've lived almost all my years up to 50 meters from Bymarka in Trondheim, I've been a local politician for many years and I've been dealing with things about Bymarka – and now have a strong impression that it's under strong pressure. Local democracy is very important and deals with most issues, but national authorities are also involved in issues, whether local politicians want to or not. We have one thing in Bymarka in Trondheim that has been going on for a long time. Some cabins were used as dwellings. There was a local compromise that many of these cabins could be used as dwellings, but one could not separate more dwellings on the site and also not extend them. But now the Civil Ombudsman has said that that can't be right about their rights. So you're going to review municipal decisions and go in to solve this. Other pages are when the field is used as a mass landfill. Information has then been obtained from the Environment Directorate, which advises against it because there is such a good game nest in Bymarka. We know that game walks, and then they have to have a game corridor. Millions of dollars are invested when the Road Service builds up E6 nearby, but suddenly there is a barrier inside the city. Such examples led me to join in on this proposal for a representative. I have a great understanding of local democracy, and we're going to try to take care of it, but I think Lars Haltbrecken has a point when he says it's not the last time we hear about Citymarka in Trondheim, because it's so valuable to many. It is under pressure because there are valuable areas for housing construction, for landfills, for alpine installations or for other sports facilities — not least for dwellings. So please. I'm going to vote right today, but I think we'll get more things on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e2321	It's not just on Stortinget's pulpit that smaller parties on the left-hand side irritate themselves over slightly larger parts, whether they're on the left- or right-hand side. In the pulpit now we heard that, among other things. by the representative of Bastholm. In our country today we could read it from e.g. The representative Haltbrecken, who is concerned about how much influence the Centre Party will have on environmental and climate policy. If you're going to judge by this case, I'm also concerned about the Center Party, because they think the problem with the government's proposal is that it's too difficult to restrict Marka, while we're making a proposal that we've notified, which makes it more predictable for the municipalities. That's what it's all about, and it's not going to go beyond nature values, outdoors or sports. It is quite clear in the government's proposal. You kind of make a conflict that's not there, but it's there with the Center Party, SVs and MDG's best friends. There's a conflict. But it is not a real conflict with the government parties. Time and again, when we discuss environmental and climate issues, such conflicts are created against the civil side. In the case of electric bicycles, the Workers' Party says that they will now support the proposal of the Centre Party subsidiaryly. But there is no substantial difference between the proposal of the Centre Party, which the Workers' Party must support subsidiaryly, and what originally came from the government. The substantive difference lies in the entry of the government parties into the note, to which none of the other parties would be party. But now it is there as a majority comment, which gives the municipality greater freedom to say no to the use of electric bicycles in the entire municipality, not only in some areas or routes, as the Center Party and the Workers' Party obviously want. From the representative Bastholm we hear very often that the Right does not care about the environment or climate etc. I don't think it's a constructive way to talk about each other, because I think we all want the same thing, and we have to work together. I would recommend the representative to take a walk at a Right-Meeting if she wonders if the Right-People are not concerned by nature. [[muttering in the hall]] We invented the Nikersa part.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e2333	Reconstructed conflict, we're told it is. Yes, we're not the ones who have proposed to change the law of the Marka to make it easier to expand the Marka or to change the boundaries of the Marka and the Marka. It's a weakening of the law of the land that the government is voting for today, and for which they are unfortunately getting a majority. It's going to be easier to narrow Marka from what you might find too well on the part of the government, and it's also going to be easier to run with a zodiac on the path, which hardly any of those who have let themselves be heard in this case have asked for. Well, it might be that the Right Invented the Nikkersadel, but what we've seen from the Right in recent years when it comes to taking care of Norwegian nature, suggests that that nikkersadel is well hidden deep inside the closet in most of the Right Homes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e2338	Now there are several people in the gallery who are very happy that we are going to applaud through the Oystese watercourse afterwards. But since the matter took a little fresh turn, I couldn't keep up with the word, because I feel that suddenly I've been thrown back to third grade at high school and that a couple mate together even if someone really doesn't want to sit together. The representative Heggelund says that we should be best friends with the Centre Party in climate and environmental policy. It is to do this whole debate – and this room has much less responsibility for Norway’s policies in the areas of greatest pressure, which is the greatest challenge of our time – than it really is. This is not about one in position or in opposition, and of course, on the day that the representative Stefan Heggelund and/or the government are able to win for climate, environment and nature, we in the Greens are ready for it. So the challenge back to Heggelund is to disprove us. The climate and environmental issues do not lose out on the number of points in the batch programmes; they do not lose out on how much space climate and environment is given at national meetings or at county annual meetings around – climate and environment are losing on priorities. That is what we are seeing over and over again, and my main concern, also for the protection of nature in this government, is the priority it gets around the negotiating table.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e2343	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 8 and 9.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e2359	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e2368	In Hardanger, a pearl runs off a river, the Øystese watercourse. For decades after decades, people have been on the line to protect the river, and today, there is reason to thank all those who have been on the road and in adversity. The island watercourse runs from mountain to fjord. It's one of the most beautiful rivers we have. The natural values in and along the river are also much larger than we've previously guessed. The work of voluntary organisations on the matter cannot be underestimated. Their efforts to map the natural values ensured that no power development was permitted. The Norwegian watercourse nature is our rainforest. The watercourse nature we have is unique in the world context, and we have an international responsibility to take care of it. Two thirds of the watercourse nature has been developed, and the battle for rivers has been a central part of the history of the Norwegian environmental movement. From the time the League of Nature was formed in 1914, one of the things that has been involved has been the fight for the watercourse nature, and the concern it had in 1914 was that more and more waterfalls were being put in contact. Since then, we have been able to protect almost 400 watercourses. These are some of the largest natural resources in this country, and today a new river is added to this list, which provides permanent protection against power build-up. Most parts of the Stortinget have been for the protection of the Baltic watercourse at some point. The problem is that we haven't been at the same time. But today we are. Today, all parties vote for the protection of the Baltic Sea watercourse in order to protect the river from power build-up in the future. After many years of battle, the watercourse battle in Hardanger is crowned with victory – victory for the irreplaceable natural values. It has been a real pleasure to be the case rapporteur for this matter. I will end by thanking the Committee for the work that has been done and congratulating all of us on a decision that will stand out very well in the history books. Thank you so much and congratulations to everyone! I refer to the proposal for which SV is the co-sponsor.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e2383	The representative Lars Haltbrecken has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e2388	This is an incredibly pleasant matter to be able to take part in. Finally, the Baltic Sea estuary shall be protected by it, for today the estuary and its magnificent nature are protected for eternity. The future will benefit from the unique values of the river. This is not the first time we are dealing with this matter – it is not even the first time we are dealing with it during this period, because the Workers' Party, together with SV and the Green Party, promoted a proposal for the protection of the Baltic Sea watercourse in the autumn of 2017, which was voted against a year ago. It didn't go through then, but I was very happy that this came into the Jeleya platform. It's been a long fight, and today it's almost as if you're fighting to be the best for this. Let's just say to each other: Congratulations on a good decision! It's incredibly good that we now get this in place. So I guess many people think that the Storting should have done this before, but today the only thing that matters is that we actually get it done. For the first time in ten years, we have a protection decision in place, and today we have it for one of our finest rivers. So today we're going to congratulate each other. But first of all, I would like to thank all those who have been involved in this matter, local fires who have been involved in the various political parties, in the open-air organisations, in the Tourist Association, in the Norwegian Hunters' and Fishers' Associations, in the Nature Conservation Association and in many other places. This is primarily their victory. We should thank all of them for never giving up, for arguing and fighting, even when they didn't have so many votes. There were many of us who were at the Naturverkörbundet and the Tourist Association earlier today, and it was a touching sign, to see those who have fought for this matter over 30 years, and who today get it crowned with victory. Environmental struggles often receive a lot of attention in the face of defeat. Today you get a full victory. That's all reason to celebrate. So this is their victory. It shows that it's useful to engage. We thank them today, but above all, the future is going to thank them – all those who are not yet born but who will grow up near the river, or all those who are going to travel to the river to experience its beautiful nature and take a trip in the mountains. For now the river will be there forever. It is a victory for outdoor life, for nature, for plants and for animals, and most of all it is a victory for people. Today we congratulate the Stortinget on a good decision, and then we thank all those who have broken the road, and today it is very much deserved to eat cake and celebrate the Eyewaterscourse.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e2401	We in the Right are also happy today, along with all those who have fought for years to protect the Pacific Ocean in Hardanger, which is located in one of our many beautiful mountain areas here in the country. Today, we shall decide that the Baltic Sea watercourse is included in the Watercourse Protection Plan, thereby ensuring that this watercourse is also protected against future power plant development. It also means that the protection values in the area should be taken into account in the case of any other types of intervention that had to be notified. This is a great area, and I think protection here has been a very wise decision, but it's difficult to balance when we're facing protection versus nutritional development. Both are important. I remember that the then oil and energy minister Søviknes said that this had been one of his most difficult issues, but that we said no to power development based on an overall assessment. Our Prime Minister also stated that the government is concerned that we should use our renewable natural resources, but she stressed that we should at the same time take care of valuable landscapes, outdoor life and biodiversity. So in this case, there was consideration for the last thing that was going to weigh more heavily. As mentioned earlier, there has been a fight for about 30 years, where nature, outdoor organisations and others have worked for a lasting protection. It hasn't been the way for them at all, to say it like that. There have been proposals for hydropower projects in the area, by 2015 at the latest, where the NVE set the deadline for full expansion, but the application for that suspension ended in being rejected by the Ministry of Oil and Energy in 2017. Then we are here today, ready to protect for all future, to the delight of all those who have fought for this, and also to the joy of future generations.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e2410	President, I can tell you that many in this room have already celebrated the outcome of the matter we are dealing with now. Because you realize that many of the members of the Energy and Environment Committee, together with the Norwegian Tourist Association, the Association for Nature Conservation, fire brigades, environmental defenders and others, have hosted and celebrated the protection of cake and coffee cooked with water from just the East Coast, transported to Oslo by a left-wing man from the West. Although I do not feel that this is the time for political foot-and-mouth, it must nevertheless come as a curiosity for both political opponents and conservationists that it is when one puts a Left-Man and a Progressive Party-Man together in government, and they each govern their responsible department, that this historic decision is taken. In any case, I want to pay tribute to all the fires that have been working for this for years – at national level, where they have been working against politicians and governments to get it done, but not least at local level, where there has been a huge exposure to this watercourse. I know that there are many who are following this debate now, both from the gallery here and also from home or from the office, who are engaged, and to them I have the following to say: Congratulations with the day and well blown!
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e2419	There is no doubt that the island watercourse has special qualities related to landscapes and outdoors. The oesophagus is also one of the few pristine watercourses in Hordaland. When the Stortingen one year ago discussed the proposal for a representative for the protection of the Baltic Sea watercourse, the Senter Party was in favour of a split protection, where the upper part was protected, while the lower part was not given it. This was in order to safeguard the pristine and particularly high values of the open air interests in the upper part, while the lower part, which is not untouched in the same way, could be expanded – in line with the local hearing bodies of the municipality of Kvam and the county of Hordaland. There is no reason to withdraw this debate. In this round, the Centre Party has joined unanimously in the setting for the protection of the entire Baltic Sea watercourse. It has been raised beyond any doubt that there are significant protection values throughout the entire watercourse, even in the lower part, although this part bears the mark of lying in an area of mass take-off, technical infrastructure, agriculture and construction. Thus, there may be arguments for shared protection, but there may also be arguments for significant protective values that could be lost by a shared protection. The centre party has therefore weighed the arguments in the process and has chosen to support the setting – this in order to provide predictability in a process that has been very long – and swirled enough – and to underline just the protective values that we all agree on actually belong to the watercourse.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e2428	This is a big day for classical nature protection in general and watercourse protection in particular. A long battle for the lasting protection of the Baltic Sea watercourse is today crowned with the unanimous decision of the Stortinget, a watercourse that not only represents an experienceable visual value but also a species defect. That the Hardanger nature is something of the most beautiful that is created, and in particular a pristine watercourse that runs the whole road from mountain to fjord, there is little doubt about it. That one also finds a dozen red-list-registered plant species and a rich edelauvzog, only underscores the fundamental nature of the protection decision. There are many who, on behalf of nature and coming generations, devour thanks. Select knowing that the holder “not mentioned, no one forgotten” is the safest in such a context, but I allowed myself to bring out someone special. Not least the Federation of Nature Conservation and the Tourist Association are very grateful, and especially the local teams at home in Kvam, Hordaland, Bergen. The fact that the Tourist Association and the Nature Conservation Association did not take the facts into account locally in Bergen and Hordaland in this matter has given a decisive impact on the outcome. They were so overestimated that they accelerated the costs of creating a new survey of the watercourse, which revealed major shortcomings in the decision-making basis on which the NVE had based. Among other things, many red lists were found, as well as other minor but serious grave errors in the file base. In this respect, this case also triggers a debate, evaluation and amendment of the documentation requirements in similar concession cases. Unfortunately, there is little reason to believe that this type is missing is typical for watercourse assessments. Watercourses and nature that have already been decided against them on a failed basis are unfortunately little to do with now, but we are forced to do what we can to prevent it from happening again, without being dependent on the fires, which in this case have prevented an open-ended wrong decision. The left has stood a reasonable load and burst in the front row of the Baltic Sea watercourse, natural enough for an environmental party. Today, I still want to use the opportunity to thank the parties we put in government with, the Right Party and the Advance Party, when the government first said no to the concession requests and then, afterwards, went in for protection. I would also like to thank the rest of the party here on the house, and not least the case-speaker Haltbrecken, for today's decision being reconciled. Unspoilt nature, natural values and biodiversity will increase in value and become more important and important. The decision we make together today will benefit those who come after us – children and grandchildren – for generations.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e2445	We've got the right that we already have the four. Even those who have legitimately criticised some of the processes that have gone through transporting ice cubes from the district so that people can drink, like a cup of ice cream today. Even if rumors say that it was carried over the mountains in a diesel car, I think we'll let it go on a happy day like today. The eastern watercourse is one of the few intact watercourses in Hordaland, and at the last treatment of the Verne Watercourse Plan NVE recommended that the entire watercourse be protected. The County Council of Hordaland, the Directorate of Nature Management and the Hordaland County Council then recommended the upper part of the protection, which was also the position of the Christian People's Party at the time. But there was no protection at that time. I thank the case manager for a good report and for a good cooperation in this matter. As he points out, there have been several initiatives through to protect the Eye. Now we're some, and we're all at the same time. That's good. I thought that on a day like this, it also sounds like quoting Olav H. Hauge. He's said once, if you go by a prowl, you don't hear him. It can be striking for some of the natural pearls that we who live in a country like Norway, which is so rich in nature and unique experiences, have. Sometimes it's so close to us that we don't see it, or as Hauge actually says – one doesn't hear the foot like a cage right next door. When a mass mass today says that we're in favour of protecting the entire Pacific Ocean, it's a joyous day, and I think there's evidence that the rule that the Hauge quotation points out can sometimes be disproved. We have recognised some natural resources, and they are to be protected on behalf of the coming generations and on behalf of all those who can enjoy these natural pearls. Congratulations!
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e2458	Congratulates everyone with a voice decision on behalf of all those who enjoy this nature, all the small species that live there, and also the coming generations that are to enjoy the river, the estuary. First a thousand thanks to the government because someone has to take these decisions that make us get to this protection. Some have to take these battles, too, so that it becomes a priority. So I would like to thank you very much for this. And thanks to those who have been on for years, and who are also represented at the gallery here today. We know that in protective matters it is those who work for protection, who must be the tough ones, who must resist ever new interests. They have to take care of so much, there are consultation responses, and there are countless hours of work being laid down, often from a few quite few. This is an area – a large, pristine natural area, an open-air pearl – that is important to people who use it. But it is also important for species diversity. We know there are endangered species along the Pacific Ocean. I think in a day like this we can take some lessons with us. One is that it's very important to map the good place you're going to build or put pristine nature in a pipe, because it might be that you haven't found everything you're looking for. The second is a little more funny consideration as I did, and it is that at the celebration earlier today I realized that the representative Breivik and the councillor Elvesuen had been together on tour along the river. So we're here today and we've got protection. Then I think that we in the Committee on Energy and the Environment should add several of our committee missions to Norwegian nature, because it turns out that we are only human beings, and first-hand experience also makes it possible to make better decisions. Nothing is better than a first-hand experience with a good Norwegian outdoor experience.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e2468	Now a lot has been said. This is an important day for watercourse protection in Norway. Protection of the Pacific Ocean has been important to many. It has been for the left for a long time too, and it was therefore negotiated as part of the Jeløya platform. The estuary was among the watercourses that were assessed for protection in the Stortinget as early as 2008-2009. NVE’s assessment was already at the time that the watercourse has qualities that qualify for protection. However, the majority of the population joined the then government’s recommendation that the values of the watercourse could best be assessed and preserved through the concession treatment of different projects. The concession treatment of specific projects concluded in 2017 that the benefits of requested hydroelectric power deployments are less than the disadvantages. The values of the watercourse have also been further assessed in the concession treatment and additional natural values have been recorded. Significant protection values have been demonstrated in the Baltic Sea watercourse related to landscapes, outdoors and biodiversity. The watercourse is close to populous areas around Bergen and in a region with little protection of entire river basins from fjord to mountain. I note that the representatives of the Centre Party in the Committee wanted a shared protection of the Pacific Ocean, so that only the upper part of the watercourse is included in the Watercourse Protection Plan. However, the situation now is that the application to build Øystese power station in the lower part of the watercourse is finally rejected at kgl. Res. of 2 March 2018. So I'm glad that an overall committee agrees to protect the Pacific Ocean. There is no doubt that this is a good and forward-looking decision, which will stand for the future. Many people have worked for a long time to protect the Pacific Ocean, and today this has its final connection.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e2477	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e2482	I guess that's not a direct question I have to the Council of State. But I would like to congratulate the Council of State, and I would like to thank the Council of State for the work he has done for the protection of the Pacific Ocean. It's been a good cooperation, and it's been a very good result, so thank you for that. So maybe a hope in the end: it's now ten years since the last time the Storting sheltered a river, and my hope is that it won't be ten years until we can celebrate such a saying again.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e2489	Now there are concession treatments, and it's a continuous work. There have been rejections in the Gengedal watercourse, it is the Wind, there are other important watercourses, but then the question is whether there are several rivers to enter as sheltered watercourses. It is the oil and energy minister who is responsible for this. What will be my responsibility is the processes of having other types of territorial protection that also include rivers. There is now a work on supplementary protection, which was ordered under the Nature Diversity Act. The professional assessments have now been provided by the county councillors, and then the Environment Directorate will make recommendations to my department to move on to some protection processes, so ongoing decisions will be taken. And then it's important that we have – and I think I do – a good cooperation with the oil and energy minister in assessing concessional processes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e2496	The Council of State may stand still – it is a new line.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e2501	Nice to join in and give a little more kiss, clapp and hug to the matter! Thank you so much again! This is like a marathon for someone, I think, who is finally in the goal. I think the Council of State had a good historical and very factual proposal, but I have a sporting question to the Council of State: What does the Council of State feel like in a day like this? [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e2508	Well, it's like a lot of people, because this is something they've been working for over many years, and when the final decision is to be made, it's for the first time a big day because there's a lot of people who've agreed, despite long conflicts. But fortunately, I also think I have it in me – also as Minister for Climate and Environment – that when this is done, I think: What's next?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e2513	So the chord change is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of three minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e2520	First of all, I join those who are inspired and motivated on this day. I really admire the preservation of this watercourse, in the amazing natural area as this is, and I am delighted to be able to take a trip up and stay in the new cabin that has come into place. When I say this, it's because I know that many have worked for a long time and maybe felt it almost an infinite battle. I myself have followed the processes and resistance around the eleven windows over time, and I have seen how much it requires of a community. I have also seen what joy you have of nature, what ownership you have of the natural experiences locally, and what forces it mobilizes. It also says something about the challenge that you have locally involved so that that commitment gets out, and it's amazing that it's stayed so long in the Pacific Ocean. But it also says something about that ownership relationship and the values you have locally. It also tells us politicians that we need to make arrangements for local environments to be heard. I've been following fights about Lower Otta, Upper Otta and Dokka–Etna, big expansion stuff in my state, Uppland, really enjoy those who have worked for this, both in different nature and outdoor organisations and politically, this winner. And I hope that also the eleven windows can get into the protective plan. Then there's something called "durable protection," and someone has challenged us on it, what "durable" means, and that it should be as long as possible. We're going to make sure that protection works for generations to come. As committee chairman, I would like to say that not all committee leaders in the Committee on Energy and the Environment are experiencing, in fact, that one comes into the protection plan. It's been 10 years. The representative of Une Bastholm challenged the Committee a little not to travel on committee trips but almost to go to committee. Actually, we haven't. We have our own travel committee. In my short time in the committee, in a year, we have been at many oil conferences and fairs, but we have not traveled to so many natural areas. So we also have a little bit to go on, we too, and we can get better at this and take over the diversity that is. That is why it is not only for individual representatives to prioritise this. Terje Breivik, Ola Elvestuen and I have, in the case of the eleven winds, had to walk along those rivers to get those impressions, get that experience. It costs a little bit, yes, but it also makes an immeasurable impression. That's why I hope there won't be another ten years, and that we'll now get speed on supplementing the protective plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e2535	If the committee is going on such a trip, it is clear that hotel expenses will also be cheaper. Maybe you can live in tents that way. I am sorry that I came to this party a little late, but I am reporting at any rate. Some of the last thing I did in my last life was a series that was called My Nature, and then we were guesting the Eyewater. We made some beautiful things from there, and it was not difficult to make beautiful things from the Baltic Sea. That watercourse goes down, in streams and in wages all the way, from mountains down to fjords, and as many of the speakers here today have said, there are not so many left of those watercourses. There were beautiful pictures, and one of the main characters I used in that series is probably sitting in the gallery today. I think it is wonderful to send a greeting to those who have been on it for the protection of this watercourse for so long and have been crowned with such hell. It's amazing to see. I want to mention another important point, and that is that there are some other watercourses that are now in line. Some of them have been proposed for permanent protection, and that is in the proposal. This applies to six-seven watercourses. The window has been mentioned, Hovda, there are several, six to seven pieces. So there's not a lot of people left, and there's an urgent need to figure this out for a new protection plan. I sincerely hope that the Council of State Elvestuen will take this with me, and I believe that the Council of State Elvestuen is willing to look further into it. At least we have to press and do what we can, together with the nature protection organisations, to get this on the table. Then I just say, "Congratulations with the day!"
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e2548	I just wanted to make a brief announcement at this party, so did I. I'm going to do something that's not very common from the Greatness Chair, because it's not that easy to do it, because it's usually completely empty in the gallery here. But now there are people here, so then it must be allowed for a politician to run with a little bit of public free space. I do that by saying that these are the victories of the fires. Thank you so much! In the end, I heard that our committee leader, Ketil Kjeseth, said that it was not so often a committee leader in the Energy and Environment Committee that got into the protection plan. If that means that Ketil Kjeseth is now permanently protected – it is possible that it is a misunderstanding, but would like to for me – it is fine if the Council of State Elvestu also takes it with him in the further work. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e2556	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e2574	Music is an important part of life for most of us, but it's still quite new to think that music is also a useful health resource. Research and practice in music therapy shows that there is a potential for society to benefit from and to a much greater extent than today. Music therapy researchers have shown that music therapy can motivate and have a positive effect on both emotional and social function, even for patients who are otherwise not sufficiently motivated for more established treatment methods. Brain researchers have shown that music motivates and engages people in a very special way. of your music stimulates pleasures and emotions, and that musical memory is largely preserved in the brain even when language and other functions are threatened by e.g. dementia development. In other words, the scientific basis for using music therapy as a resource has been significantly strengthened in recent years. We are biologically available to engage in communication through rhythm and sound, and music is also an important part of life's history, identity and community for most of us. So maybe it's not so surprising that music therapy can be an important health resource at all stages of life. The research community in Norway has actually researched everything from music therapy to premature infants to music therapy for elderly people with dementia. Then it is reasonable to expect that music therapy in the future will be an important resource in many service areas, but then we also need to ask ourselves about the consistency between this knowledge and the situation in health services on the other hand. I want to deepen this by focusing on music therapy and mental health. The national professional guideline for the distribution, treatment and follow-up of psycho-selling people states: ‘Music therapy promotes recovery and treatment should start at the earliest possible stage in order to reduce negative symptoms. The treatment must be carried out by approved music therapy therapists.’» The Health Directorate has given this rating A recommendation and stresses that the recommendation is as relevant for municipalities as for specialist hospitals. This recommendation has become more relevant, as the following developments show clearly. In 2015, the government ordered regional health practitioners to develop drug-free treatment in mental health protection. The Health Directorate then highlights cognitive behavioural therapy, music therapy, physical activity and family cooperation as relevant treatment options. A separate Code of Procedure for Music Therapy has been established. Packing processes for drug use and mental health have been introduced, with psychosis from 15 February 2019 onwards. So this process is based on the psychosis guideline, where one has a strong recommendation on the use of music therapy. A national treatment text for music therapy in mental health protection was also developed in 2018. With such clear national leaders, a belief that music therapy was made far more accessible to users than was the case when the psychosis guideline came in 2013, but this does not seem to be the case. On November 16th this year, Hans Petter Solli, a researcher at Norway's Academy of Music and a music therapist at Lovisenberg District Psychiatric Centre, published a chronicle in Dagens Medisin. Solli refers to the strong recommendation on music therapy in the psychotic guideline and writes: ‘It would be thought that such a recommendation would result in more patients having access to music therapy. Today, five years after the recommendations were made, there are still only about 30 music therapy positions in the mental health field in Norway. About ten of them have come after the guidelines have seen the light of day.» As far as I know, many of the ten positions that Solli refers to here are established in Health Bergen's recording area. This shows that implementation is possible in itself, but it also points to the need for a national knowledge and competence service, because in Health Bergen, one with POLYFON knowledge cluster for music therapy, coordinated by the University of Bergen, has achieved something. In the context of the development of psychosis and drug-free treatment, the health care centre, in cooperation with a knowledge cluster, has adopted a principle decision to be a music therapist at all mental health clinics. This was implemented in 2017, and several of the clinics in question have expanded the range of music therapy in 2018 based on the experience gained. Users want the offer, and one sees that music therapy promotes user-oriented and resource-oriented services. The municipality of Bergen is now following up. From 1 January 2019, they assumed responsibility for a follow-up offer for patients who have had music therapy as a treatment on DPS. The supply is resource-oriented and should include: contribute to increased cultural participation. In principle and in the long term, of course, the services themselves have to finance music therapy services within the budgetary framework that is always in force. The example of Health Bergen shows that this can be done, but that this has happened within a close professional cluster collaboration that is not established in other parts of the country. It is therefore a fact that the implementation of music therapy in other parts of the country has been slow and random, so that there is not yet a kind of critical mass where the professional competence of music therapists is known and established in the services at a minimum level. When we as politicians are going to consider something that can and should be done with this situation, I think it's important that one does not become the act of the psychotic guideline containing several tens of recommendations, because there may be reasons to follow up music therapy in particular. Looking closer to the real situation that is often out there, not a psychosis patient will have several dozen recommendations to choose from. The course and collaboration tools will be organised so that there will be a few main choices, and then music therapy is a very current candidate, among other things. The experience of Health Bergen shows. But then this offered is absent in the services in much of the country. In a note prepared for the Health and Care Committee in connection with the State Budget for 2019, the Norwegian Association for Music Therapy writes that the implementation of music therapy on a national basis is currently spot and random, and that it is today, for example. 20–30 music therapy courses within mental health, municipal and specialist services, while it should have been 200–300 in order for the supply to be fairly distributed across the country. The unit suggests two actions. One is a transitional scheme for municipalities and health professionals. The second is a national function of knowledge and competence, e.g. by enabling the University of Bergen, in cooperation with Norway's Higher Music School, to cooperate with national services on knowledge dissemination, quality development and practical research, as the knowledge cluster POLYFON has worked in the Bergens region. Another relevant action to be taken is to include expectations about knowledge-based implementation of music therapy in regional health care providers’ mission papers. So here I have clarified the need to make the situation visible when it comes to music therapy and mental health, but music therapy is also relevant in many other important areas of service, for example. in the care of the elderly and in the care of the elderly. My question is what action the Council of State will take to ensure equivalence in the national music therapy offer, where the music therapeutic professional competence becomes an integral part of the services to a greater extent than is the case today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e2612	The effect of music therapy is well documented. Both research and experience from patient work show that many benefit from such therapy. It can be in dementia care, in mental health work, in the treatment of drug dependence and for many other patient groups. I therefore share Mr Toppe's intention to facilitate the use of music therapy on a national basis. The National Professional Guideline for the Investigation, Treatment and Follow-up of Psychoselling Persons states: ‘Music therapy promotes recovery and treatment should start at the earliest possible stage in order to reduce negative symptoms. The treatment must be carried out by approved music therapy therapists.’» The Health Directorate shows that there is good evidence of the effectiveness of music therapy and strongly recommends the use of various forms of music therapy. Several studies have been conducted to show that music therapy is particularly effective in reducing negative symptoms, and there are studies to show that the effect is noticeable six months after the end of treatment. Music therapy is reported to be equally effective whether it is used outpatiently, for patients admitted to hospital, or as an offer to patients in municipalities. Music therapy is recommended in national professional guidelines for drug treatment, detoxification and palliation for children and young people. In the guidelines for detoxification, it is suggested that Norway currently has very little research on music therapy in drug treatment. However, the effect is believed to be good for this group as well, and it is recommended to use music therapy for patients who wish to do so. We have no statistics showing the number of music therapists locally or nationally in Norway, but the Norwegian patient register overview of registered interventions can provide a clue to developments. From 2016 to 2017, the number of records for the use of music therapy increased from 2,300 to 2,700, and the number of patients receiving music therapy increased from 498 to 536. Norway's High School of Music and the College of Grieg at the University of Bergen have established music therapy courses at master's level, they offer continuing education, doctoral training, and they have established active research centres. In addition, Nord University offers master modules in music-based environmental treatment. The theme is part of Bachelor's nursing at the University. The new continuing education Art and culture in health and care is one of several offers in the National Environmental Management Training Programme with integrated use of music, song and movement. Both Minister of Older People and Public Health Åse Michaelsen and I are concerned that all people should be able to participate and experience mastery, even when health fails. Music-based environmental treatment is therefore highlighted in the quality reform of Life throughout life, which municipalities are in the process of implementing. Music is a health resource in everyday life. Systematic use of music and song in environmental treatment can increase mastering and well-being and dampen anxiety and anxiety. Music can be both part of the work of environmental therapists and given as an offer requiring specialised music therapy competence. By using music in the treatment, people's own resources are more activated, and we know that many patients can reduce drug use. Reduced use of coercion has also been documented. National competence service for ageing and health has established the ABC Music-based Environmental Management training programme. The programme, such as: is based on dementia level 2020, targeting health care staff. Health and environmental workers learn how to use singing and movement in elderly and dementia care and integrate music and song into environmental care. An interesting study has been started at the nursing home in Oslo and Trondheim among people with dementia and residents who receive pain treatment. The study shall consider whether music-based environmental treatment can reduce pain and improve the activity and quality of life of patients. It will be exciting to see if music therapy can contribute to a better life for these patients. Music and song play a major role in environmental treatment. We have more examples of that. At the Fevikun residence and care centre in Grimstad municipality, singing and music were systematically used a few years ago. The measure has led to greater attention to residents' own resources, and the working day has become more interesting and varied for employees. One of the residents has been removed by coercive decisions after music-based environmental treatment was included in daily care. There has been a significant reduction in anxiety and aggression, and thus a reduction in the use of coercion. Health enterprises and municipalities are responsible for the planning and operation of services at each level. For the assessment and selection of the form of therapy, the responsible physician decides to do so in consultation with patients. As Minister of Health, I do not find it right to address the question of the choice of treatment. Through the Health Directorate’s recommendations, the services have a good professional basis for choosing music therapy and facilitating the use of music therapy in the service.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e2647	I would like to thank the Council of State for its contribution. It is positive that the Council of State shares the intention behind the interpellation to facilitate more music therapy throughout the country. I also mentioned in my post that it is now well documented – music therapy is part of several professional guidelines, and it represents another form of treatment, which can have a greater effect than traditional treatment. So I listen to what I think is the answer to how to get music therapy available throughout the health care system, and not just in some areas. I couldn't hear that answer. It's probably a slight increase, and it should be lacking, but I'm concerned that this is a supply that is absent in many parts of the health service, also based on geography. One depends on local fireplaces, that there are systems and knowledge clusters locally, and there are many areas that should put this into use, which have not put it into use, for example. before dementia, palliation and intoxication. There is an enormous need, but there has not yet been a culture to prioritize such settings. In the debate that was when we had a representative proposal in 2017 to implement music therapy in healthcare professionals, the Council of State also referred to environmental-based treatment. I'm positive about learning health professionals in music, but music-based environmental treatment is something other than expanding the system with music therapists. It's not either -- we need both. At the same time as being able to receive music-based environmental treatment outside, there is a need to have a proper focus on specialised knowledge-based use of music as a health resource. State council did not respond. I hope that the Council of State can come up with what the government will do for music therapy as an equivalent offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e2656	I understand that we agree on the goal. I also believe that the documentation shows that music therapy is important for several patients and that it is part of the national professional guidelines. There are many different forms of therapy and treatment that are part of the national professional guidelines, without our involvement in the Ministry of Health and Welfare and political management and our own plans for the various forms of therapy. What we have done, which has caused some strong negative reactions from the professional community, is to make an absolute demand that there should be a drug-free treatment offer in mental health in all regions. I think that is the case, among other things. have been involved in promoting music therapy for the group of patients on which the representative was involved. I also experience that, within the treatment provision of drug addicts in specialised multidisciplinary drug treatment — by a number of private/ideal institutions offering it — music therapists are employed, and music therapy is part of the treatment. But I think it's true that it's those who are responsible for the professional part of the treatment, who are assessing the type of competence and therapy to be offered to patients, based, of course, on what are national professional guidelines, where music therapy for some patients is also recommended.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e2671	Thanks to the interpellant for taking up this topic. I notice that the Council of State is quite clear that music therapy is beneficial, and that he assumes that it can also bring good benefits where there is no research evidence for it. I have the most experience of my soul in the care of the elderly, and not as a therapy, but as that council of state was about, namely, the use of songs and music in everyday life. It's good, but something a little bit different, or something that in that case has to be added. National Councils mention that there are many types of treatment and regulations in the national professional guidelines, and that is correct. But in this particular area, I still think it's like the interpellant Kjersti Toppe says, that this is not well-established and well-known in all the academic environments, and that it can therefore be important if you go out with more information from the government, not least to the patients, about this possibility. I'm pretty sure there are a lot of patients who don't know that this is an opportunity. The council also mentioned the resistance which has partly been to the drug-free services adopted in multidisciplinary drug treatment, and I know it. I also know that patients who wanted this, but did not get it. I think that's pretty serious, because I have – as the Council of State probably also knows – taken up several interviews related to serious injuries and side effects of drugs, both of usual therapeutic doses and of medication for side effects instead of seeing what it really leads to the symptoms. It could be the drugs you get. In many of the patients who are in long-term treatment, whether somatic, psychiatric or drug treatment, very many of them are characterised by very high drug consumption. Then it becomes a maritime justification to bring down the drug use, and if we know that this is a type of treatment and therapy that can contribute to it, it can really be a win-win situation. I repeat that the damage caused by misuse, but also the damage caused by normal drug use, and not least the harmful medication for side effects that we see, is greater than we know, and that is something we have recognised. I see that this could be a possible way of reducing drug use that could have a double health effect, so I would ask the Council of State: can he say in his final article something about how patients should be able to know that this is a treatment option that they can consider beneficial and how they should be able to ask for it – especially if there is resistance in the professional community to prioritizing this or prioritizing drug-free treatments?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e2686	This is an interpellation that I really appreciate, so I want to thank the interpellant. I would also like to thank the Council of State for what has come to date. In the area of music therapy in municipalities, there are – alongside a budget struggle, where health and care services are becoming increasingly demanding – a couple of other conditions that I experience. There may be a lack of knowledge about what music therapy is. So I assume it gets into the state information around the municipalities. The second is that I have also experienced a certain professional struggle, whether music therapy may be necessary, because one often looks at music as entertainment. One looks at it as something useless or as a luxury, a bit of taste and pleasure. But music therapy is a profession where the music is included as an instrumental use of music, and it's something quite different than playing an instrument or making sound. It requires professional knowledge, specialising in the target groups. I know the professional background for music therapy in this field, both at Sandane and in Oslo. It can be used for the elderly. It can be used in drugs and mental health. I also know it from prisons. It can be used in schools and PP services, and it can be used in more general cultural work. There can be treatment for children who need it, for the disabled, for the sick and for the elderly. Therefore, this is a little cross-border — between growth, culture and school and health and care. I hope that municipalities who are striving to obtain full jobs can make good use of this in a good way. Music therapy should not be a leisure offer; it should be a treatment offer. I myself have had the pleasure of hiring and working with music therapists for 15-20 years at the music school and the cultural school at Karmøy. We've had a lot of experience in seeing what results it gives. It creates joy in life, it gives a high point in a difficult life for many. It is a harmless approach to patients or to students with special needs, and it strengthens mental health. An experience with a music therapist can sit for quite a long time after the experience you've created together. Another aspect that may be important today is that the music therapist can also care for important parts of our cultural heritage in his repertoire. There may be cradle songs, folk songs, shows, songs and hymns, which one not least in the treatment of denments sees how one can lure forth again and create a new life for people who might otherwise be passive. I've seen the effects, the results and the life-happiness this can give, as well as that a gives vitamins, drugs and other good treatments. I'll end by recommending that music therapy gets stronger into the picture further on. And yes, I can even see that it could come on prescription.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e2703	Thank you to the people who took the word. Being able to get music therapists on prescription may be what we need to get more of them. I hear the Council of State in its second article show that there are many different forms of treatment, music processing, and there are different kinds of therapy. Now this interpellation is about music therapy, and it's defined what it is. I would also like to stress that the national professional guidelines for psychosis treatment make it clear that this is a treatment carried out by approved therapists before music therapy. The code of procedure for music therapy that has been developed also clarifies that we are talking about music therapists with an approved five-year higher education in music therapy. This is not the same as music-based environmental treatment. Both parts are important, but I now feel again that when we politically talk about getting more music therapists into the health service as a resource, a political response is that we should have music-based environmental treatment. That's what I thought we're going to end up with, we're going to have both. In 2017, there were 300 music therapists, 20–30 in mental health. If we are to follow the national professional guidelines, it requires at least 300 only there. In addition, there is a need for music therapy before drug treatment, detoxification, etc., as was mentioned here, and there is a great need before dementia. One needs it also in areas other than health services — I am thinking about child protection, criminal care and some cases of rehabilitation. Neurorehabilitation is such an area. Everyone is in favour of music therapy, and having music-based environmental treatment is also for everyone – no one is against it. That is also the dilemma, because we now have an offer that works after being implemented, at the best of our patients, but I think that one still lacks the political will to take action that will make it easier to get these jobs out of the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e2714	I fully agree with the interpellant that there is no contrast between music therapy carried out by music therapists on the one hand, as a completely separate type of treatment that is not least recommended in the specialist health care in psychotherapy, and the provision of music-based environmental treatment, for example. in the care services. It's not the same, but I think it's necessary to talk about both when we're dealing with this topic, because there's also someone trying to create the impression that music-based environmental treatment is that nurses and others are entertaining and singing. It's not. There is systematic, knowledge-based use of music in environmental management. I'm concerned that music therapy is going to be an offer for the patients. The representative, Andersen, just highlighted the importance of patients being aware of this possibility. I believe that one of the measures now being introduced as a result of a mental health and drug package process could just help to achieve this by now becoming a systematic response to the treatment offered to patients. If this treatment is not effective, healthcare should talk to patients about alternative treatments recommended in the national guidelines. The national guidelines cover, inter alia: music therapy as part of the recommendations. I hope that it will help to make treatment providers, treatment institutions and patients more aware of this treatment option, which for some patient groups is well documented, while for other patients we have many positive experiences that patients themselves have shared with us.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e2721	The debate on substance is then closed. 11th off.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e2738	No one has asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e2750	Then we're ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e2759	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Lise Christoffersen on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Per Olaf Lundtigen on behalf of the Centre Party Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘I In Law 6 July 1957 No. 26 on the coordination of pension and social security benefits is amended as follows: § 24 nr. the third paragraph is replaced by the following: If the occupational pension is taken out after the age of 67, the ratio is used at the time of withdrawal. This also applies if a full or partial old-age pension has been taken out of the population’s pension at an earlier date. However, no lower ratio than 1000 shall be used for the calculation of the coordination deductions. II It shall enter into force immediately with effect from 1 January 2011.» Alternatively, this proposal and the recommendation of the Committee shall be rejected. Red is in favour of the proposal. The Committee had recommended that the Storting should do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e2805	There is so much talk about proposal No. 1, from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to come back with assessments of how to strengthen the employment line of public employees born in 1944-1962 in the context of the law on new public service pensions’. The Greens have already given their support to the proposal. The centre party has already received subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e2826	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, by Arild Grande on behalf of the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking for the introduction of collective rights of appeal for trade unions which have members of an establishment which has hired workers from recruitment agencies, cf. § 14-12, that the trade union may bring an action in its own name concerning the legality of such rentals.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e2852	Alternatively, between the recommendation and proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘I In Law 17 June 2005 No. 62 on the working environment, working time and job protection, etc. [[work environment law]] is changed as follows: the first sentence of the first paragraph of Section 18-6 is replaced by the following: The Labour Inspectorate shall otherwise impose and take the individual decisions necessary for the implementation of the provisions of Sections 1 to 7, Chapter 2 to Chapter 11, and Sections 14 to 1 (a), 14 to 5 to 14-8, 14 to 9 (f) second sentence and the second paragraph, last sentence, 14 to 12, 14 to 12 (a), 14 to 15 to 15 (f) fifth paragraph. II The law shall apply immediately’. The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e2887	A total of five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1-4, by Solfrid Lerbreck on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 5, from Solfrid Lerbreck on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that knowledge of sexual harassment is included in the training of protection officers and in the training of all those with public sector responsibilities.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to investigate whether unsafe forms of labour relations such as temporary employment and rental increase the risk of sexual harassment and abuse, and to return to Stortinge appropriately.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to propose changes to the Working Environment Act so that employers’ responsibilities for preventing and preventing sexual harassment at work are more clearly stated in Section 4-3 of the Working Environment Act.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: «The Government asks the government to outlaw the liability of employers in the event of a breach of the protection clause of the sixth paragraph of Section 13 of the Equality and Discrimination Act.» These proposals and the recommendations of the Committee shall be replaced by an alternative vote. The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals. The Committee had recommended that the Storting should do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e2936	Proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for further changes to the Labour Environment Act and related regulations to clarify the responsibilities of the employer to prevent and prevent sexual harassment at work.’ The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance and the Greens/European Greens/European Free Alliance support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e2957	A total of seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Eigil Knutsen on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Eigil Knutsen on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No 3, from Per Olaf Lundtigen on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 4, from Per Olaf Lundtigen on behalf of the Centre Party proposed no. 5-7, from Solfrid Lerbreck on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to increase the amount of the public deficit in the context of the 2020 draft government budget and to provide an assessment of the functioning of the current curtailment on the basis of an objective of providing more opportunities to work more, including an assessment of how a lower cut-off rate can contribute.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to raise the income limit before the shortening of children’s allowances occurs and to adjust the income limits in such a way as to make them more gradual.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to propose that Nav should be more closely followed up with disadvantaged young people, inter alia, by giving young people the right to take labour market measures in the same way as those receiving redundancy benefits.’ These proposals and the recommendations of the Committee shall be replaced by an alternative vote. The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals. The Committee had recommended that the Storting should do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e3009	Proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for regulatory review with a view to improving the follow-up of young people at risk of becoming or having become unfit for work.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e3026	Proposal No. 3, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government requests the removal of the 95-percentage limit for the sum of disability and the children’s supplement tested for need.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e3043	Proposal No. Four, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to make proposals to increase the amount of the public deficit for the 2020 draft budget.’;» The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal. The Socialist Left has already received subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e3062	Proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with a case concerning the inclusion of the disabled in the labour market, which shall include, inter alia, an assessment of: – how today’s curtailment rules affect the participation of the disadvantaged. – how young disabled people can be better followed up by Nav through the intervention apparatus. – how the restrictions in the children’s supplement have been eliminated for different groups of recipients based on income levels.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal. The Socialist Left has already received subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e3092	Case No. 5 was interpellation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e3101	A total of four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Lene Vågslid on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, by Geir Inge Lien on behalf of the Center Party proposed no. 3 and 4 from Petter Eide on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to set up dedicated groups in several police districts to work against hate crime, with the aim of covering the whole country. Each group shall have special competence in the field, work systematically against hate crime, increase the competence of police personnel in its district and report on the work done.’;» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to establish a national unit with coordination and professional responsibility for hate crime.’ These proposals and the recommendations of the Committee shall be replaced by an alternative vote. The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals. The Committee had recommended that the Storting should do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e3142	Proposal No. 2nd from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to assess whether the existing Oslo hate-crime group should be given a mandate and resources to have a more formalised advisory function for the other police districts.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal. The Socialist Left has already received subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e3159	Proposal No. 1, from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for systematic and mandatory training on hate crime in all police districts.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e3176	Case No. 7 was interpellation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e3185	A total of three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Åsmund Aukrust on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Environment Party proposed no. 2 and 3, from Sandra Borch on behalf of the Centre Party Proposal No. 2nd from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The following new fourth paragraph of Section 2 is added: The king may provide for less restrictive border adjustments to the limit through which it passes through residential property or, for other reasons, for greater practical disadvantages for the management of a property, and the adjustment is not such as to cause appreciable damage to outdoor life, sport, agricultural interests or natural experience.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e3211	Proposal No. 1, from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Environment Party of the Greens. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The following new sixth paragraph of Section 10 is added: The Ministry may provide for access to and use of electric bicycles in the field. It opens up the use of electric bicycles on gravel or solid roads, but not on paths. The land counties may adopt prohibitions at given places or times and the maximum speed shall be 25 km/h». Red is in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e3232	Proposal No. Three, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The following new sixth paragraph of Section 10 is added: The Ministry may provide for access to the use of electric bicycles in the Marka outfield. The municipality has the power to decide by regulation that the use of electric bicycles is not permitted in specific areas or on specified routes or routes’. The working party has already received subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e3298	We're going to vote for Section 10 of the new sixth paragraph. The centre party has notified subsidized advice. The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e3314	The second and fourth paragraphs of Section 2 are contested. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e3328	The new third and fifth subparagraphs of Section 2 are contested. The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e3343	The remaining paragraphs and Romartals will be weighed over. The Greens and Reds have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e3357	- The system obviously didn't record all the voices, so we'll take the vote again. So the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e3369	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote. The Greens and Reds have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e3383	The law decision will be passed until a second time treatment is given in a later Storting meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e3392	During the debate, Lars Haltbrecken has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to draw up proposals for a separate law to take care of the Citymark in Trondheim following a model from the Marka Act.’ Alternatively, this proposal and the recommendation of the Committee shall be rejected. Red is in favour of the proposal. The Committee had recommended that the Storting should do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e3420	During the debate, Lars Haltbrecken has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking for the protection of the following watercourses and to return to the Stortinget with proposals for the permanent protection of the Gengedal Watercourse, the Scurvy Valley Sons, Messingåga, Nundalselvi, Tvinna, Vinda and Hovda.’ Red is in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e3480	Case No. 11 was interpellation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e3490	Case No. 12 is the second time the law is dealt with and is subject to the rule of law 43. There is no comment suggestion. Thus, the law passed on a second time and was sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-12.ana.ud494e3567	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
