ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e39	On Monday the Stortingen received a message from the Prime Minister's office saying that Prime Minister Erna Solberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e48	If we are to succeed in the green shift, get emissions down and create new jobs, the conversion must be fair. The policies we choose must be targeted, and the burdens must be distributed fairly. It's actually a continuation of what we've been good at in Norway, that's fair distribution that attracts everyone, and the ones with the most contribute to the transition. From 2025 new petrol and diesel cars shall not be traded in Norway. I believe it is right that we use the Community's resources to promote the sale of electric cars through a wide range of tax reductions, including. by not paying VAT. But now electric cars are sold in very high price classes without necessarily having a longer reach than cars in lower price classes. In addition, exclusive stereos, advanced equipment, details for those who can afford them, may be purchased free of VAT. It is free to buy such cars with both quality and extra equipment. In the Labour Party, however, we believe it is reasonable to pay VAT even on the most expensive cars, the more than NOK 600 000. Then there is VAT-free up to NOK 600 000 and VAT on the amount above. It's still a very good price reduction and very attractive rather than buying a petrol or diesel car. In our proposal, we maintain the difference between the electric car and the corresponding fossil car. So what we can input into that value added tax, we can use it for the conversion, for example. to build charging stations around the country, allowing more people to choose to drive an electric car and get a long range. I think that is an example of fair migration. The party leader in the Left calls this an expression of envy. My question to the Prime Minister is, Does she agree with Trine Skei Grande?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e61	I am sure that I fully agree that the challenge of some climate action is the redistribution effect they have. That's why, in the past, I've been asked in the Storting about my statement that some of the measures we have have, in socio-economic discussion, have a perverse effect, that is, the opposite of what we want with distribution policy. But the answer to that is that we want strong action on climate, great results. We want to see the results that make it possible for us to achieve the climate targets we have set for 2030 – and we would like to overcomply with them. Then it's like when we give support to homeowners to install heat pumps to take down the consumption and make a contribution to the conversion, it's the people who have houses, the people who might have large, attractive houses and maybe the rich people who have houses on Frogner, who do it first. Then you have that kind of effect, and it is always difficult in a redistribution perspective. But if we have now said that climate is the most important thing, we must actually work on the climate challenges. That's why we originally had a climate agreement that said we should take away the value added tax benefits when we had 50,000 electric cars in Norway. It was our climate agreement before this government joined. Then, in the previous period, the government, in cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left, agreed that we should keep it until 2017, and now we agree to 2021, because we are so afraid to send wrong signals now in view of the goal we have of delivering by 2030. Then there might be many corrections that are correct. The government also says that we should have a sustainable car tax system in the future – and the redistribution – but right now it is a clear and clear signal that we want people to buy an electric car, that it is the most important thing to do personally and privately to help reduce climate emissions. It's important that we do strong. I don't think this is envy. This is simply a question of having climate as the primary objective here, and then we have to work on redistribution in other areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e70	The Prime Minister wouldn't exactly use those words, I understand. The most important thing is climate, but the question is: is it the proper use of the community's resources within the car tax system to say that the more expensive the cars become, the more exclusive they become – they become heavier, they may have extra equipment – has nothing to do with climate? I don't envy people who want to buy it, that's fine, that's their choice, but then they have to pay a share of it themselves. We're not going to spend the community's money on it. What can we do with that? Well, it's about fair conversion, it's about redistribution. Then we can, among other things: say that those who can't buy an electric car today because they don't have charging stations can get what we can invest in it. And we can do other things, for example. for housing, waste, agriculture — spending money more rationally. The point is, here we're using money unreasonablely, and we're not willing to adjust it so that we can achieve greater climate targets. Shouldn't the government see it and use the opportunity to show people that there's a fair transition we're about to make?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e77	I fully agree that it is important that we have a fair transition, but the most important thing is that we reduce climate emissions, that we reduce climate emissions in such a way that emissions decline and development does not stop. What's dangerous about making big changes to the electric car policy now is that these changes are just the first step, and what fear it puts us in that we're not going to achieve our goal in 2025. Then the Workers' Party can take the risk – we don't. The government has agreed that by 2021 we will have it, so we are working for it. Then the Workers' Party gets to play with the climate that way, if that's what they think will be different. Those who buy the largest cars, those who go into the car market first, are actually the ones who buy the most new cars as well, which means that one gets a used car segment afterwards, which makes other people get an accessible car that is also a zero-emission car, in the future. Because even though we have a lot of cars that are zero-emission cars today, they only make up 10 pst. of the car park in total, although they are a large part of the new car sale. That means that it takes a few years before people who buy their next car as a used car are going to buy an electric car, simply because there are too few in the used car market.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e84	There will be follow-up questions – first Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e89	I'm going to pursue the topic of fair distribution, because we have another case that goes on now. It is about whether the community can take income from businesses that derive a particularly high return from using a limited natural resource. It shall be possible to make good money on salmon farming for those who invest, and not least for the communities where the investment takes place. But it could also be that the community could reap more of the profits in very good years in Norwegian fjords to finance kindergartens, school, care for the elderly and not least the community that has made the space available. The government wanted to know more about this and started an investigation into whether an additional tax on the farming industry could be a current alternative. Before the selection was halfway in its work, the Right, Left and Advance Party concluded that it was not applicable. It must be in contrast to what Erna Solberg often says, that we must have thorough and orderly proceedings. But in a debate on this in Political Quarter last week, Højres Tom-Christen Nilsen Trine Skei Grande made his words. He believed that those who were to assess taxes on breeding were envious of the breeders. Does the Prime Minister agree with Tom-Christer Nilsen?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e94	Justice must also be that when a wholesaler subsequently actually regrets its use of words, it should not be used in the questionnaire without saying so. Tom-Christer Nilsen lamented that he was a little heated and warm and occupied and engaged for the coast and used words he should not use, and he has said so publicly. So I know him as a solid person, but he's just sorry, so there's no reason for me to say that. I agree with Tom-Christer. This is not envy. There are many good, important reasons why we should look at how we tax many of our natural resources in the future. But we must not underestimate that we are now charging in a completely different way for the concessions that are being delivered. We have established an auctioning principle, which means that we are now – instead of the old concessions, which have been given in the past – getting a lot more money, and essentially we are now giving that money to the communities. We now have a large farm fund, which has distributed money to municipalities, and where municipalities have an opportunity to invest in this. So it's delivered and paid for the concessions given.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e99	Jonas Gahr Støre – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e104	I have the sense of representative Nilsen, even when he is heated and warm. [[Laughter]] He speaks from Lera, we have to assume, but the Prime Minister would not use those words – it is useful to know. But when we look at the list of cuts this government has – from ABE to glasses and dental regulation, which they don't now fix – we see a profile that I don't think is about fair distribution. There is money to be used to finance large tax cuts. And I believe that this puts Norway on a course of increased differences. The SSB report that came up now showed that there was something Norwegian really scared. I fear that in the transition we are going through in terms of climate, the measures we are doing, and not on an electric car. The government is not willing to discuss what we do with the resource salmon farming. And the cuts you do, it builds up a frustration over increased differences, which reduces the willingness to participate in the changes we're going to make for the climate. This SSB report demonstrated that many Nordics – a large majority – fear increased differences. Does the Prime Minister share this fear?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e112	I have repeatedly said from this speaker that I also believe it is important to work for a society of small differences, and that the most important thing is to make sure that those who hang out for, those who do not get involved in the working life – those who experience the greatest difference we have in Norway, the difference between being able to use their talents and being able to participate in the working life, and being outside – are helped in. In the case of many of the poorest children, it's important that parents get into work, because we see that there's accumulation there. That's why it's important that we talk about the differences in our society, but also talk about how we ensure that everyone who can work participates in professional life, and about how we make sure that we fight the poverty challenges in our society. There the government has a targeted and active policy that we also reinforce. I agree that we must be careful that the climate action we are implementing is also good climate action in the long term. But we have to reduce emissions, and then it is important to make sure that we have targeted and good enough measures. For example, the electric car policy works, it doesn't give us emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e117	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e122	In the autumn of 2016, Erna Solberg boasted that the Right-Fremskritsparte government had increased the fees more in one year than they were increased in eight red-green years. According to the Minister of Finance and the Chairman of the Advance Party, Siv Jensen, the government has increased the fees by 6.3 billion. kr until now during their period of government. The level of charges in Norway has never been higher than now, when the Right Party and the Advance Party are in charge. The charges on electricity are 38.9 pst. higher today than in 2013. VAT if you want a bus ticket or train ticket, has gone from 8 pst. to 12 pst. There has been a tax shock for parts of the food industry, and the taxi industry experienced last year that if you were to buy, for example. a taxi for wheelchair users increased the charge by more than 100 pst. So there has been a very focused willingness to increase the fees for people most, for Norwegian industry, for small and large traders around the country. In the year’s budget, the biodiesel is to be taken – from zero to full overnight fee. So during the reign of Prime Minister Erna Solberg, ordinary people in ordinary homes have experienced that the electricity bill rises due to increased electricity charges. The commuters have experienced that there has been a worse commuting discount. The drivers have experienced that there has been a very powerful increase in fees. Industrial workers have experienced uncertainties around their workplaces due to an unpredictable charging policy. Now the NHO and the LO are crystal clear that the fiscal policy pursued for biodiesel is jeopardising climate action. Sees the Prime Minister some problem that the fees in Norway are now 6.3 billion. kr higher than when she took over? And does she see the challenges that many of those who have been hit by politics have?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e131	I think people should be quoted for what they have actually said. I have not said that I am pleased that we have increased the fees more than the previous government, I have said that I am pleased that we actually increased the CO 2 tax more, and that we are actually doing it a whole lot more than saying when they hold the party speaker: that the polluter has to pay. And the polluter has to pay in Norway. That is why we have increased the CO 2 tax, and so do we in this budget, where we specify the CO 2 tax by 5 pst. We compensate for the same groups within the sectors, but we ensure that emissions are taxed more. It is absolutely necessary if we are to achieve the climate objectives. I miss to hear the Central Party's climate policy for the time being. I hear nothing they will do. They are against all measures considered necessary by the rest of the Stortinget to achieve this, and they have mildly populist attacks on those measures. But is there one thing that we agree on – one thing that the whole world agrees on – that fossil fuel subsidies have to go away and that CO 2 emission prices have to be increased if we are to be able to achieve the 2030 targets. That's why we also, and that's why we made changes to some of these charges in 2016. Now I hear that the Center Party wants to do something else. In the case of biodiesel outside the inclusion requirement, the main reason why we're doing this is some of what we were strongly criticised for last year in Stortinget, namely the increase due to palm oil. That is when it comes to better regulation of palm oil emissions in Norway, because it is an area we cannot regulate otherwise. So that's why we've switched in. It doesn't give us more money, it doesn't give us any income, but it does mean that we reach the goal of having better and more sustainable use of agricultural resources in other parts of the world, and that our consumption pattern should not stimulate the reduction of arable land for fossil fuel use. So what we're doing is, of course, a small measure in that context, but it's a follow-up to the criticism of palm oil.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e154	When the government introduced a sharp increase in diesel taxes, Prime Minister Erna Solberg – and she boasted of it – said that they have increased fees more in one year than in eight red-green years.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e159	That was the CO 2 fee.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e167	There will be follow-up questions – first Tryful Battle Violence Vedum.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e172	And then there was a calculation by the Transport Economics Institute about the impact this has on the country's CO 2 emissions. They said there was little or minimal power, calculated at 30 000 tonnes of CO 2. That's the effect they calculated it for. Then the government comes by area and justifies it with the climate when they are going to increase the fees. Then there's biofuels, where one now increases the fee – at a full fee – and there's the estimate that it's going to increase Norway's CO 2 emissions by 700000 tonnes. 700,000 tons! So that's some and twenty times more than what was a theoretical calculation in 2016. Then it's nice to hear the Prime Minister stand and moralize in the climate field. So my question is, why does the Prime Minister think it is wise to do the type of tax measure that increases Norwegian CO 2 emissions by 700,000 tonnes?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e191	The change that has been made, with a road tax on biodiesel outside the inclusion requirement, is justified in our wish to combat the use of non-certified palm oil and its regulation. But the big catch we're taking is the interference requirement, which this government has stepped up every single year, and which is going to be up to 20 pst next year, where also advanced biodiesel is going to be a much larger proportion. This means that we both control palm oil use and at the same time ensure that CO 2 emissions in Norway go down, because there is a greater demand for it. And then it's likely that when one increases interference to 20 pst., there won't be so much biodiesel in the market, so one won't have that kind of effects. So it's like this, as I say, that this has no progeny effects or anything else. This is a follow-up to a strong criticism that, among other things, We got because we contributed to the demand for and purchase of palm oil in Norway being too high. This is one of the measures we have taken to bring down palm oil use in Norway, because it has emission effects elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e203	Sigbjørn Gülsvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e208	I have to say that the Prime Minister, in his answers, shows no understanding of the consequences for ordinary people in Norway of the massive tax increases that have taken place. The fees affect people in their everyday lives. Those who already have the least are those who get it tough when the fees increase. One of the taxes that have increased most is the electricity charge, which has increased by 38.9 pst. Under Prime Minister Erna Solberg. This comes at the top of that one has had high power prices. In recent years, a look-up has been made after a notice that electricity prices have increased. Many people have used savings to afford to pay the electricity charges, pay for the electricity price, while the government has made good money and collected extraordinary dividends from Statkraft. Then you should give a hand bill now in the state budget to people by reducing the electricity charge. Instead, one increases it once more. Why does a not reduce the electricity charge to ordinary people in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e216	First of all, this government has, in total, given significant tax relief to ordinary people. That means that a family has a lot more to walk with. But in some areas we have followed the polluter-pays principle by making sure that we increase the charges in some of these areas. Regarding the issue of the electricity charge, the representative, Gülsvik, knows that we lowered the electricity charge in the last year's budget because last year was a year with very high prices. What's interesting is to ask yourself the question of why electricity prices are now getting higher. It goes back to the green shift we have in the world, a shift that means that the CO 2 price is now reflected in higher power prices around, even in our country, which in turn means that we spend 1.5 billion on the state budget. to compensate the powerful industry for this. But that's what matters to the price -- because we're doing a green shift, because we're going to do something about our climate change emissions in this world. It costs something to do with our climate emissions, and we also see that our electricity prices are affected at the moment, because higher CO 2 prices have been achieved in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e231	Ole André Myhrvold – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e236	This increase in biodiesel has little to do with palm oil. Regardless of the government's grip, palm oil fell in biodiesel last year by 70 pst. and continues down this year. If the Prime Minister is concerned about vacuuming the market for good biodiesel, active action should be taken to put Norwegian forest into use. The government has failed so far. Industry transport accounts for two thirds of transport emissions. There, the transition to biofuels has been an important contributor to reducing emissions. At the same time, the small-scale support scheme of the government through Enova has only taken a narrow segment for small vans. What we need are effective measures and instruments for heavy transport, agricultural machinery, construction machinery and coastal cargo ships. The Prime Minister called for the Central Party's climate policy. We're in line with business and we want a CO 2 fund for business transport. What is the government's grip on getting these emissions down?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e248	There must be a manifest misunderstanding from the representative Myhrvold if he believes that the fall in the use of palm oil did not have its basis in government policy. There are just the integration requirements, with the requirements for more advanced biofuels, which increase the demand for using the forest more, which contribute to its profitability. We now see under this government that new production sites are being opened for this, while under the previous government it was shut down production sites, because the fees were added at that time. That's exactly why we now see a fall in the use of palm oil – but I understand that it's not that important. So we're increasing the incorporation requirements to 20 pst. Next year, and we're increasing the proportion of advanced biofuels into this. These include: These grips that make us get more biofuels into our fuel systems. Then we are concerned that we should extend future arrangements to stimulate the transition to useful traffic. That's why we have a 1 billion CO2 fund. kr which contributes to support where the market is now also delivering, i.e. to lighter trucks and vans.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e260	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e265	In his reply to the representative Gahr Støre, the Prime Minister said that climate policy should not make major unexpected changes, and one should also operate on the basis of resulting measures. According to the NHO and the LO, the increase in the taxes on biodiesel currently proposed can lead to an increase in greenhouse gas emissions of 700000 tonnes. That's a lot. It's also a change, a significant change, overnight. At least there must be a reason for reflection whether or not someone here has done the right thing, and whether or not this cannot create an unfortunate development and cause us to increase CO2 emissions. So the question is simply: will the Prime Minister listen to the LO and NHO in cooperation here say that this is unpredictable and that it also leads to increased greenhouse gas emissions?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e272	It's important to see things in context. From 2019 to 2020, we increase the inclusion requirement from 12 pst. until 20 pst. This means that very much of the biodiesel sold in Norway will be within that blending requirement. Within that integration requirement, we also demand what kind of biodiesel you can have and what you use. That means that we are now increasing demand for advanced biodiesel, which is not palm oil or anything else that comes. So what's outside is that it comes from other sources, for example. that it comes from palm oil. Most of the biodiesel that has been authorised under EU requirements is likely to be within the range we need for the 20 percent. That's why I think the emission figures that are now presented are not right, but in any case we're always going to listen to it, because our purpose is always to bring down the emissions. At the same time, it is important to say that we have now been severely criticized for swimming in palm oil last year. So now we're trying to drain the palm oil, and I think I should all agree that we do.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e279	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e284	So when a bottled palm oil comes out, one chooses to do it in such a way that one can reduce the use of biofuels and thus increase CO2 emissions by 700000 tonnes. That's a lot. But I have to say that the round here shows that the Prime Minister is not really so busy, I think, about how the charges are off, neither in terms of CO2 emissions nor in terms of the majority of people. The SSB came earlier this fall with a new report showing that differences in Norway are increasing. The tax system is much less redistributive, and increased taxes are one of the reasons for this. When the fees are increased heavily, most people are affected. It hits them with ordinary incomes, while those who have the most get away more easily. It is, in fact, an important and legitimate debate that cannot just be dismissed again and again. It is true that the government has increased the fees by 6.3 billion. kr. Does the Prime Minister at all worry that the increase in fees is increasing the differences in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e291	The whole basic idea of what lies in Granavolden, which is government policy in the areas where we increase climate taxes, is that we bring back the funds we collect to the same sectors. So we've done that. We did the same when we increased the CO2 tax on diesel and petrol in 2016. There we reduced the annual tax on the car, and we reduced the amount of insurance that was added. So we've brought back the money, precisely because we're concerned about people having financial room for action. We need to motivate people to make the environmentally sound choices, while not helping to make their economy worse. When you see it at the same time in the tax havens we give, how common revenues have received up to NOK 11,000 in annual tax relief with the last budget, we have also given room to make these changes that help us do what we say when we say that the polluter has to pay.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e298	Social violence Vedum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e304	This round shows that Prime Minister Erna Solberg is proud that they have increased the fees by 6.3 billion. kr, and she is proud that Siv Jensen as Progress Party leader and Erna Solberg as Right-leader is the management of some government ever in Norwegian history that has increased the fees the most. And it does not seem that the Prime Minister is concerned about how this affects ordinary people. When the electricity charge has increased by almost 40 pst., people notice of course. The electricity prices go up, but in addition, it's almost 40 pst. a fee increase on the top. Then you introduce some tax increases that may have climatic effects, but that are very much debated. You push the climate in front of you. This budget introduces charging increases, which are known to have very, very negative climate impacts, with increased CO2 emissions of 700000 tonnes. The last time we discussed biodiesel, it was kind of a crisis mood, and Erna Solberg was very angry about making changes to the biodiesel tax. Why is it so great to go from zero in charge to full charge when the prime minister's name is Erna Solberg?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e311	Because we're doing all the other measures that make us just get to what made us stated when the red-green government increased the diesel tax and thus made sure to tear down the basis during the production of biodiesel in Norway. What we're now seeing is that because of the 20 pst integration requirement. - and 12 pst. of this next year will come from advanced biodiesel – opening up biogas plants, now there are investments that are coming, because we are just stimulating by being predictable and have made a plan over time to help us get them along with it. So I think it's important to remember when we've given 25 billion. kr in tax relief, that half of it has gone to ordinary people with ordinary income. The main picture is that people have improved their private finances with what we've done. Only in this year's budget do we include, for example: for the lowest income groups: when we add the licence fee to the NRK, it means that the minimum pensioners who have previously paid NOK 3000 in the licence fee are now receiving a free NRK. And when we look at the viewer and listener numbers of the NRK, it might be one of their biggest target groups, so they should be happy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e318	Social violence Vedum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e323	What was the discussion about biodiesel last time was to introduce half a fee. Now it's a full fee. If predictability is involved, it is the total lack of predictability, because half of the levy was removed a few years ago, and then a full levy was introduced again now, which gives a very negative effect throughout the biodiesel market, and as the NHO and LO say jointly will provide 700,000 tonnes of increased CO2 emissions, i.e. a targeted response to increase CO2 emissions in Norway. My questions to the Prime Minister are: Is the Prime Minister not worried about any increase in electricity prices when the charges go up? Will the Prime Minister in the future also just sit still and watch Norwegian electricity prices go up and go up and up? And I do not agree with the Prime Minister when you see who it is that can change, for example. by buying a new car, that it is those who can't afford it, who are waiting the longest to replace a car? Is it then right in the name of the climate to punish those who are least able to afford increased taxes when they do not have the opportunity to change?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e330	It's precisely because we're not going to punish people with bad advice, that we're making the changes we're making. When we increase CO2, we compensate again within the car charges through a lower road tax. Then it became a little difficult to follow the reasoning here, which jumped from biodiesel to the electricity charge. First to biodiesel: what was the criticism when the red-greens made their changes was that they undermined a business market that started in Norway, where the forest industry and others could deliver. It died. It died flat. The Minister for the Environment at that time was opening one month, and then the budget was closed. What we're doing is having a plan for interference, predictable framework conditions, which makes it pop up new production sites in Norway, which use Norwegian resources, which have a real global CO2 effect for future reductions. So there's a completely different situation with what we do than what the red-green did. We get Norwegian activity, we have a green shift going on, and we make sure we bring down the emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e337	Svein Roald Hansen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e342	A government budget does not come from this government without a new fee or a juicy fee shop. So this year, it's biodiesel that's been selected. Of all the objections that we hear to the state budget, almost regardless of which government, it is rare to have a statement of objection served that is as well justified as the objection to taxing biofuels in addition to the inclusion requirement. When prices go up by NOK 3 liters, there's a lot of idealism to choose the most expensive in an industry where profitability is weak. The Freight Car Association, Power Norway, Automobile Association, NHO Transport and the Workers' Party are all warning against this because it leads to less use of biofuels and increased emissions. I hear the Prime Minister's reasons for bringing down the use of palm oil. That's a good reason. But will the Prime Minister use the 14 days left to consider postponing this fee and finding another way to deal with the palm oil problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e347	I believe, as I said, that most of the EU-approved sustainable biodiesel sold in Norway today is going to be sold within the inclusion requirement, because the inclusion requirement has strong regulation on what can be inserted. That means that most of what's on the market, which is not palm oil, is probably going to be within the 20 pst. In the picture that is being drawn now, let's not forget that we are going to increase significantly the biodiesel blend next year. As I say, there is no proceeds. We don't expect to get any more money out of this. This was an action, among other things: because we've gone through and seen what we can do to make sure we get less palm oil in. Then it is to charge for this one of the measures that contribute to it, because it is in this area that most palm oil can be introduced through today's system, since we are making so much stronger sustainability requirements related to everything else within the integration requirement. I'm not going to be principled for either one or the other. This is now in Stortinget, and then we hear what our parties say.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e354	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e359	The Nav scandal is an outrageous glimpse into Difference Norway. Power and money are unfairly distributed in our country. There is also legal certainty. It's a bad riddle of class light all over the case, where neither Nav, political authorities, prosecution authorities, defenders or courts have discovered that people have been convicted, economically ruined and imprisoned in large numbers in violation of the law. It is a disaster for many individuals, and it is a crisis for our system. This system failure is our shared responsibility to clean up. We are amazed that the government did not accept the outstretched hand of the opposition that came last week, of cooperation on the review committee. Instead, we got an inexhaustible process and alone from the government. Now it is natural that the Stortinget asks the government questions about the aspects of this scandal as a sitting government is the right one to answer for. Following the presentation to the Council of State Hauglie last week, it has been found that not all relevant information on what the government has done in the time it knew or should have known about the matter was included in the material published in connection with the statement. Earlier this week, we were given access to the attachments to the letter that the department received from Nav last December – that is, the first warning to the ministry about the matter. It shows that the department was clearly informed that a scandal of the extent we now know was an opportunity. The published attachments show that there is very good reason to ask if the alarm should not have gone too far last December. Therefore, I wonder if the Prime Minister still believes that her government could not and should not have called an alarm before.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e370	I have not stated that question, whether we should have called an alarm before, at any time, because I believe that we should be open about what actually emerges from this review committee. I mean it when I say that all the stones should be turned around, that we should look at what information we have received. Then we're going to be humble both to why we have that fault, which has been there systematically for a long, long time, and whether it's handled correctly by my government. That's why we've reduced a review sample. As regards the reduction of the review sample, we had decided that we should have a review sample. We have tried to contact Stortinget in the same way as when the 22nd July Review Committee was set up, it was the government at the time that examined itself. We have chosen to say that this is an important investigation, which is done by completely independent experts, who have no other direction than the mandate we have given, and who will provide an independent response to this. I think it's important now to say that the review committee will turn all the stones. It could be that it comes with criticism from the government that we should do things before. That's what I'm open to. At least I won't make myself a judge or put myself in a corner in this case. The most important thing we do now from the government is to clean up people who have not been given the rights they should have, who have been convicted, that they should not have been under the EU regulation. It is obviously not well implemented in Norwegian legislation and legislation, and we are now going to settle this. It will be our most important job, not navigable to examine ourselves, because we have put experts to examine, to look at the origins, what happened under the previous government, and what has happened under our government. Then we're going to try to get rid of something that shouldn't have happened.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e380	I agree that justice and upliftment must be priority number one. I also agree that the government should not examine itself – the Storting must do so – but I still want to ask the Prime Minister a question about what the government did when. It is important that we also get a discussion about the alarm that could have happened earlier, precisely because it has had so great consequences for people that it took so long. When the government of Solberg joined in the fall of 2013, one of the first actions was to withdraw Meld. St. 46 for 2012–2013 – the one that was named More in work. Among other things, it said: that the government at that time had initiated a review of the scope of the Law on Social Security which would look at the regulation of the payment of benefits to residents of abroad. This communication was withdrawn by the Prime Minister’s Government on 29 November 2013. That's why one of the questions we're now asking is, what happened to this work? Was it stopped, or where did it go?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e385	A very important piece of what Lysbakken’s representative now said, the key words were ‘residented abroad’. Living abroad has always been a topic of discussion. The biggest social security report delivered a few years ago from the government was also initially about those who live abroad. The Nav scandal is about people who live in Norway but who stay temporarily abroad, i.e. a different issue from the one that was the theme of the big message that was started. We brought a big message on social security exports to Stortinget. There's another group here, and that's where the challenges have been. We have a big focus, all of us, on exporting social security benefits to people who may have worked here for a while and then moved home again, or who are on a benefit and have lived elsewhere, but not on those who have temporarily moved out and stayed there for a short or longer time. There are two different groups here.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e390	It opens for follow-up questions – first Audun Lighthouse.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e395	It is true, but it is also true that issues of how the EEA and Norwegian social security legislation relate to a variety of benefits are a number of different groups. The big question is why not, through the work on the different sides of this, have come to the conclusion – in the past – of the relationships we are now seeing. Therefore, it is relevant to know what happened to the work that was notified at the time. So that's the question. In addition, I could imagine asking the Prime Minister about the following: On 30 August this year, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs received a very clear letter from Nav. It says that 35 cases have been reported, or sent to the police, on a false basis, and that about 40 people have been convicted since 2013. It is very clear that the alarm has gone into the Nav system. The seriousness is crystal clear. Nevertheless, the department waits 14 days to have the first meeting on the matter. Is the Prime Minister satisfied with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e402	I'm not going to say I'm satisfied with single pieces of all that's part of the review. That's part of the questions where you go into the material. I have said that on the part of the government, we think that we should all – and I believe so – in this room be humiliated by what has happened. All in public Norway – those responsible for legal certainty, we politicians – should see that we have done something wrong. We have not taken into account that EEA legislation has given us new leadership for what has been Norwegian social security legislation. It has not been implemented in a good way, and there have been many consequential errors. There are probably areas and times where we should have asked better questions, but that's why we've reduced an external investigation. That's to ask those questions. My main focus is on one thing: now we're going to clear up what's happened. We're going to clear up what so far seems to be a little bit lower than 100 people who have been convicted of social security fraud, who may not have done so. You have to look at each case, and that's what the Riksadvokat and others are going to look at. We will ensure that those who have been informed that they have had to pay back the money actually get paid the money. We're going to make sure that we practice in the future, and then the review has to be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e409	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e414	It is very good that it should be examined, but the investigation committee cannot now be used in such a way that the government will not respond to assessments of its own efforts in the matter throughout the period until the review committee comes up with an answer. So the question is why it took ten months, from December last year when the government was notified, until this came to the public and reached the Stortinget. The question is why it took 14 days after the alarm really went on in August this year, until the department had the first meeting. The question is why the Riksadvokat was notified too late. The question is why things were put to rest too late. It must be reasonable to ask the government to assess whether one is satisfied or not with all of these things that we know today. Therefore, once again, I would ask the Prime Minister to give us an assessment of – when she sees this now, with these facts on the table – how pleased she is with the job that the government has done in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e419	I am not satisfied that we have not discovered this error at an earlier time. In what the representative Lighthouse now listed, he forgot to ask the question as to why the Council of State Lighthouse did not discover that he was implementing errors, and that this was done in a wrong way when he was the Council of State. I don't think it's time to blame on one side or the other, but it's going to be wrong if you say that you just look at what's practice, and what's done, without going to the whole causal relationship and see why the alarm clocks haven't gone before, and what we're doing is wrong. And we have pointed out some important mistakes, including: that we are too poor in social security legislation to monitor how the European Court of Justice develops and how other countries implement this. That is why one of the measures we are taking is to improve the follow-up to how these kinds of decisions and regulations will be implemented in the future in this area, and we probably need to do so in several areas. I can well say that I am not satisfied with what the government has done in this matter. At the same time, I do not think any other politician should be satisfied in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e426	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e431	It's a little surprising, I think, that the Prime Minister is ready to conclude on what the government did in 2011 or 2012 wrong. I thought it was to be examined. At least I'm for that. But I think it is reasonable for the Prime Minister to answer questions today about what her government is doing today, since they are in power today. I think the prime minister has to find out about that. I want to end with something I think is an important part of this debate, and it is: This scandal has not occurred in a vacuum. It has arisen in a situation where for many years we have had a negative debate of distrust of people for social security, and where the political pressure against the Nav system to hit hard has been very great. I think it's worth it – and I'm afraid we're not getting it done in the government's audit – to look at how this political climate has affected both Nav's and the rest of the system's ability to detect mistakes committed against people who are poor, and people who are sick. I wonder if the Prime Minister agrees that the great political pressure may have something to say for the poor results of this scandal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e438	It has been, I believe, a broad attitude in Norwegian spending that when you get a care allowance, when you get a redundancy allowance, when you get a health allowance, you have some obligations. This means, among other things: commitment to participate in the clearance of work, and that should be better than what we have seen. This government is increasing its efforts to make a more systematic follow-up to it. Follow-up to medical treatment and follow-up of contacts with Nav. I see that as a political line that I do not perceive has changed with this matter. What I see has changed with this case, is that we have to make sure that it is very clear and clear what demands we make. And then we have to measure it in the question: Can you stay abroad and implement these requirements, or do you have to be in Norway to implement these requirements? We need to make that decision clearer. And I didn't say that I had concluded about the State Council Lighthouse. I just said that among the questions he should ask himself, what happened at the time – when you first had to have a discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e448	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e453	The case has shown failure in many terms, we know that, and the question is, what do we do in the future, because we know that such system failure has also affected the rights of children? Yesterday, the UDI Director said that they have done wrong, and that the best of the child is not taken care of in matters there. This is not the first time that several court decisions in the Law Court have said that decisions are invalid and that practices do not respect the rights of children under the Children’s Convention, by which Norway is also obliged. But just as in Nav, when the Social Security Court has said they're making mistakes, UDI and UNE continue their practice, the law enforcement has said they're making mistakes. The question is, when the court says that the law is being used incorrectly, shall not practice be changed in such a way that it becomes correct hereafter? Does the Prime Minister agree with that, and will she ensure that this is maintained throughout the entire administration below?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e460	I see that this is a slightly different question than what was the main question, namely the question of the Nav scandal. On a general basis, the answer is yes, but it is that once a sentence has been made in the law, you have to go through if you have practiced the law correctly, and you have to make changes to it. In very many cases, for example: the documentation that is not good enough, or other things, but I can simply not answer anything but generally to such a question, for this was quite far from what was really the question related to Nav, and from the main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e465	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e470	It was not deleted, because it is about the principle of how we implement people's rights under conventions or regulations into Norwegian law. Another thing we had up in ours was the rights of people with disabilities where the government opposed their rights under the CRPD to enter the human rights law, like others. Now we know that the law should be understood and applied correctly, as the Nav case has shown that it does not, the rights must be clear in the legal text. They're not doing that right now. It affects people in Nav, and it affects people in foreign administration, and so on. We can't pretend that we don't know that the technique hits like this right now. Will the Prime Minister now begin work on changing practices and systematically writing people's rights under regulations and international conventions to which Norway has committed itself, directly into the legal text, so as to avoid such misunderstandings?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e477	The President leaves it to Prime Minister Solberg to answer, but he sees that it was pretty much the same question as it was before. But I give the floor to Prime Minister Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e482	There is a difference between a regulation and a convention that we in this process consider how we are going to implement in our legislation. That SV has a political desire to move more power to the courts and out of this hall, is not what this expansion initially agreed. This magnification has largely agreed that we should be a little reluctant to put even more power into the courts. And when you use single examples, such as that we didn't encourage you to implement some Conventions with primacy into the Law of Human Rights, it's because we think it's up to Norwegian politicians to define the space for action, and not that it's the courts that define the space for action. Many of these questions are not clear and simple in this respect. That is why we have been more restrained after the large implementation of human rights legislation here in Norway. But these are questions that the Storting is considering. It has nothing to do with Nav and regulations; it's a real question of how much power we're going to move into the courts, and how much power Stortinget is actually going to have in terms of what the laws are going to look like.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e487	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e492	This is about the same thing, how we write our laws, so that such misunderstandings can be avoided to a much greater extent than they are today. Here everyone says that they should go on their own, I think Stortinget should also do that by looking at how we implement such rights in the law. Then it can't be that the Stortinget says you should be right under the law, but not make it clear in the legal text, so that the administration can interpret people's rights away. This is a principle related to administrative practices if the law is misinterpreted. Does not the Prime Minister agree that it is better that the legal text is clear on the rights that actually exist, so that people do not suffer legal loss because the law is unclear and someone should be interpreted in addition to a convention or a regulation?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e497	This is a very big question to which it is difficult to give one minute's answer: the relationship between Stortinget, Norwegian law, international conventions and how much of them are going to apply, for example. with primacy in relation to what the Stortinge adopts by other laws. The EEA Agreement gives us some clear commitments there. Then we have agreed that regulations from the EEA have priority. All these legal texts, all the investigations, say on social security issues that priority is given to EEA legislation and regulations. The problem is that we haven't practiced it that way, we haven't taken into account what's in that regulation, and we have to figure out why we haven't been able to discover it at an earlier date. There's a completely different question about the conventions and themes to be included, with what rank they're in, and whether we're going to have power in the definitions of the Storting, or whether we're going to leave it up to the courts to make decisions about how we interpret the space of action within international conventions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e502	Rigmor Aasrud – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e508	In the answer the Prime Minister gave to the representative Lysbakken, it seemed that it was almost premature for the Stortinget to question matters that are now being dealt with by the government's investigation committee – this is not how it could be? The government presented a case on a change in the rules on redundancy payments in March 2017. In advance, a comprehensive consultation note was sent on the matter. Neither in the letter of hearing nor in the case submitted to Stortinget, EEA legal assessments have been carried out. I assume that the government is presenting such matters internally in addition to the public hearing. At the time of the hearing, the government even had its own European Minister. So even this has not caused you to see that you should have asked any questions about the EEA legislation. Does the Prime Minister think that the matter was sufficiently well informed?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e515	Firstly, there is at the bottom a principle, which lies in our entire legislation, that the social security regulation prevails over other provisions that conflict. It's the basis of everything. It has also been written in many large-scale messages. The theme of that proposal – since there are so many proposals – I assume that this is what the representative refers to – is to codify the possibility of receiving redundancy payments for up to four weeks per calendar year while living abroad. This was not a practice change or a narrowing, it was a clarification of how practice was actually at that time, also to make it easier for people to know that this was an opportunity – it was actually to show that you had the opportunity to have a short-term stay abroad. It is clear that questions can certainly be asked whether this should have been done in several areas, several changes. You can do that at all stages of this matter. Therefore, it is nice that a review selection has been put down and can ask these questions at all stages. Then I don't want to wear that I believe that the Storting is premature. I just mean that I'm going to conclude on things I've asked a review committee to look at, I'm going to be wrong to do from Storting's pulpit, because I want to see their findings first.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e524	Rigmor Aasrud – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e529	I believe that the Prime Minister does not answer the question I specifically ask about that matter. When submitting a communication to the Stortinget that deals with cash benefits, about restrictions on it, and no assessment of EEA law has been made, does the Prime Minister believe that the matter has been properly investigated?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e534	We believe that this matter was properly resolved at the time it was presented. So it could be that it has accompanying errors, it could be. This must be taken into account by this review committee — a consequence of the failure to see this distinction contained in the regulation and those amendments. It has to be seen whether we have done it correctly at that time, in line with many other proposals that have been affected by the social security regulation over the years, both before 2012 and after 2012.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e539	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e544	This is a scandal that has hit many innocent people. There is a great responsibility for how we deal with the matter further, both magnificence and government, and then I have to be allowed to say that the Prime Minister is more clearly aware of what happened in 2010-2012 than she is in the last two years. But the Center Party has respect for the fact that there's a lack of a review committee. That review committee has a deadline of 1 June 2020 to complete its work, and the question is how to deal with the matter by government and magnificence. Will the government come back to Stortinget? When will the government come back to Stortinget? Before summer, or should a wait until late harvest next year? And how does the government intend to come back to the Storting, so that the Storting gets the full opportunity to review the conclusions of the Review Committee?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e549	We want to work on this. We haven't exactly decided how we're coming back, but it's clear that we're also concerned that we're going to finish this case, that the Stortinge gets a decision-making basis to discuss these questions and look at what's been going on. That means that when the review selection is finished, we will have high pressure to deliver to the Stortinget. We haven't formally decided in what way we want to do it, but we believe that this is a matter that the Stortinget, of course, should deal with, not just be briefed by the government. It's a natural follow-up of the review selection.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e554	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e559	Many have been upset that conversion therapy, i.e. homotherapy, attempts to cure or convert people to another sexual orientation or gender identity, is taking place in Norway. The Green Party and the Labour Party have both proposals to ban this for consideration now in the Stortinget. When the Prime Minister first asked about such a ban, she was against it and thought it would be problematic for freedom of religion, and that one should not forbid anyone to ask for others, but on Monday this week she warned that she is now for an investigation. The fact that the Prime Minister first refers to freedom of religion in this context makes it unclear what she really means now. Because it's obvious that there's something different when a religious leader in the hidden uses his authority to claim to be able to convert a person to another sexual or gender identity, than if, for example, he did. Me and the Prime Minister sit together on the sofa at home in the living room as friends and the Prime Minister offers to ask to change me because I am gay. You can forbid the first without forbidting the last. Taking power into account already manages our law in very many other cases. It's e.g. an employer is prohibited from asking someone if he or she is pregnant, even if it is not prohibited in general. I believe the Prime Minister must be clear about what is at the heart of the matter here. Has the Prime Minister made up his mind? Does she mean that it should be prohibited in Norway for religious leaders to offer to convert people to another sexual orientation or gender identity?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e572	I think it would have been an advantage for the nuances and reflections in the political debate that when a prime minister says that one is a little skeptical about a law ban, it should not be interpreted as being against it. I was a little skeptical, and I'm a little bit skeptical about how we're going to be able to distinguish between being asked for and being subjected to what's now called conversion therapy. The most serious cases are really terrible to look at. I fully agree with the representative that it is completely unreasonable, and putting people who already have difficult problems, to a process where you should simply take away from who you are, and the laying you have can cause damage to the soul, damage to people. It's something that everyone has to be concerned about that we're going to make sure to prevent in our society. So the question comes: how easy is it to implement a law order, and what is actually illegal today? Because there are some of these things that are likely to be affected by law. We need a review. That's why I've said that I'm because we're investigating this. Then we have to look at the boundary drawings and where we can draw the dividers. If that means we have a ban, and that we can clearly define the ban, it will be good, but I am concerned that when we go to the step of talking about banning something, we have to be very clear about what we're prohibiting, even against, for example. freedom of religion. Because it is that you can be asked for, and for some it will feel like a very offensive and difficult situation. I think the hardest thing for many people who have a gender identity that is different from the majority, if at the same time they believe in God, is the experience that everyone around them tells that God doesn't believe in them as they are. It's an extremely difficult situation anyway. That's why we just have to find the right way and make sure that we take care of all the people in this country, and that no one should experience the kind of actions that we, among other things, are. has been viewed in the VG documentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e584	I still believe that it is unclear what the Prime Minister wants to achieve with an investigation, because an investigation may have the aim of ensuring that it is prohibited, that we prevent by law from engaging in homotherapy, and that in that case it is good that an investigation will be able to clarify how we get to it. But we don't need any investigation now that aims to find out if this is something we want to prohibit. I believe that with the power of being a religious leader, whether it's on request or whether it's the religious leader taking the initiative, it's unethical. It should be forbidden to offer it to someone and claim that you can convert someone from a sexual orientation or if you are born in the wrong body. Will the Prime Minister be clear that the purpose of an investigation is to ensure that it is prohibited in Norway to engage in homotherapy or to try and convert people to another sexual orientation or gender identity?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e593	I just think that the post that the representative has now made shows that these are rather difficult questions about where to draw the boundary between prayer and action. I do not believe that children and young people should be subjected to a treatment that strengthens their difficult problems in this context. We have to look at how we can make sure that we get in a good way. I believe that the Storting and our government parties are working on these issues in order to give us a good mandate to go into them more thoroughly and look at both what is prohibited by today's rules, whether there are new areas that should be banned, and where we set limits on what can be done. It's not just children and young people, it's a lot of the actions that are done here, which I don't think should be allowed in Norway, but we have to see how we do it. Then I think it's nice that we have a good basis for investigation. We can't ban everything we're against, but we're going to ban things that are harmful to people, and some of this practice is harmful to people.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e600	There will be follow-up questions – first Une Bastholm.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e605	What is harmful to people is that if you are in a vulnerable situation and you are told by a religious leader, or another authority, for that matter, for example. a doctor: Yes, it's a problem that you're the way you are, and I want to change that for you. There is the abuse of a position of power in a very invasive and dangerous way, especially to young people, which should be prohibited. If the investigation, which we hope will be given, concludes that the Equality and Discrimination Act does not clearly prohibit conversion therapy, will the Prime Minister then ensure that concrete changes to the Equality and Discrimination Act that ensure that it is banned? Or how else will the Prime Minister take action to prevent homotherapy in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e614	I don't think it's wise to ask for an investigation to then conclude what we're going to do before the investigation is over, what needs are there, and where the boundary line is going. But I think it is important that we prevent this from happening in Norway. With some of the situations we've seen, we have to figure out where the boundary goes in terms of freedom of religion. The fact that in some religions and some religious communities it is believed that homophilis is sin, I may think that it is totally horrific, because it is completely contrary to my view. The question is where the boundaries go for what I think is horrific, which is supposed to be in the law, or what the president and the representative seem to be horrific. I also think of a society where we run very quickly sometimes, without drawing the right boundaries. That's why I think we should get an investigation, and then you have to be able to draw these boundaries, draw conclusions, see the need and see where we're going.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e623	Anette Trettebergstuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e628	The Prime Minister makes this a more difficult matter than it really is. If one has followed the debate, both the Equality Ombudsman, human rights experts, most NGOs working on these kinds of issues in Norway, the European Parliament, a number of other European countries and the United Nations agree that a ban on homotherapy should be introduced. It should be allowed to mean whatever you want, it should even be allowed to pray for whatever you want, but freedom of speech and freedom of belief does not extend into heaven. It's the organized, clear action where a man with power over another goes in and says I'm going to make you something other than what you are, because you're not good enough, as we're going to live. Will the Prime Minister agree to send the clear signal to the young people who are being exposed to this today, that you are not going to find out, we are on your side, and therefore we are imposing a ban?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e635	I can give the clear signal that you're not going to find yourself in this, that we're going to prevent such things from happening in the future, this kind of assault that we've seen. Then we have to spend time before we conclude. I hear that the Labour Party has decided and believes that they have done this. I think it's extremely important that we actually go these boundaries and know exactly what and what actions we prohibit – what is law, what is not law, and where are these limits going – if we're going to have a ban. And what is actually forbidden already today? So there are some of the practices that seem to have been affected by rules already today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e640	Anette Trettebergstuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e645	With regard to the way laws are made in this room, it is not the case that magnification and the committee adopt the legislative wording. We decide that we should have a ban, and then we ask the government to put forward a proposal on that. The reason for this is precisely to do the thorough investigations and to draw up the boundaries that we are not competent to do, but which are to be done by the professionals in the departments. Then we will have an opportunity to determine exactly what the Prime Minister is standing here and is so concerned that, unlike any other country that does this, we will not be able to land on. So what does the Prime Minister want to do in a separate investigation without taking a position that won't be investigated if the Stortinget now says a clear and clear no to homotherapy, that we're going to impose a ban, and then the government comes back to the details?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e652	This matter is now under consideration in a Grand Committee. In that Enlarged Committee, the government parties are discussing the mandate and how to follow up on the matter with those premises. That's what I'm going to respect through discussions between the four parties, when it's going on. But what we're concerned about is that we ensure that we don't violate children's and young people's rights, and that we make sure that we have a bulwark against trying to change people's legation through a pressure that feels incredibly demanding for those in it. It is possible that we might have done all of these investigations regardless of which proposals would have been adopted. At the same time, there is a difference between having concluded before investigating, and figuring out before concluding.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e660	Anette Trettebergstuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e665	Yeah, there's a difference between that. It would be incredibly great if the parties of government and corruption were also involved in saying that this obscenity is what we want – to say that yes, we are going to have a ban on it. Because today's the day. It is not a law of violence or abuse, but a part of the things that have emerged, for example. Today, through the documents of the VG, organised attempts to convert people, are legal. And let's stick our finger in the ground and call a spade for a spade: this is about organized practices committed in religious faith societies by religious leaders to vulnerable, especially young, people. And you're welcome. A law ban will make it harder to keep up with it. A law order will also tell the young people that you should not accept this, you should not find yourself in it, and you must say from it. So everyone knows that the government is made up of one party that is strongly opposed to this, because these people who run with it are in their backland. Is it so that it is more important for the Prime Minister to take into account the Christian People's Party than for the young people who are undergoing conversion therapy?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e672	Young people in Norway need to be aware that all the government parties will live that way, will ensure that you can live with the lay you have, and feel that you are an entire human being, even when you believe in a god, no matter what god you believe in. This is about many religions that have not accepted this. Fortunately, there is movement in very many societies, even in religious societies; one realizes that homophilis, for example, is not something society creates, but that there is something there, that there is a variation over being human, and that those variations must be part of God's creation, wherever you are. But it takes a little bit of time some places. For my part, I hope that things will go faster. But I've always thought about my role in wanting Christianity to take more into account the lives of homosexuals, that I'm going to spend my time not as a politician, but as a member of the Norwegian Church and by voting in church elections. I've contributed to that. That's why I think we should be able to use the time for this without attaching motives other than that we want it to live, and that children and young people should experience security in our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e681	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e686	The evening post has today made a serious discovery that new private schools are pushing public schools out. That there has been a huge increase in the number of private schools under this government, we knew, but this case reveals that the Right operates with a deliberate snuff privatisation of School-Norway, and in my opinion, the room of discretion in the law misuses to implement ideological decisions contrary to the professional advice. It is up to the Education Directorate to examine applications for starting private schools and schools in Norway. In the event of rejection in the Directorate, the Department may decide. With the Right in Government, the Department has reviewed the professional advice of the Directorate in a majority of cases. In addition, in eight out of fourteen of these cases, municipalities say that it will weaken school provision in municipalities and undermine the quality of each municipality. The law firm, Raugland, has assessed the cases. They believe that they are poorly justified and say that the department has answered almost clearly in advance. I think this is bad with the right calling itself a knowledge party, and not least with the claim that privatisation is only evidence-based. So here's one with political review of the technical advice, across quality recommendations in school. This is clearly primarily ideologically motivated. We in the Workers' Party will also strengthen and not weaken the public common school. We also believe that the school structure is best determined locally. We want a local veto right, so you can't sit in Oslo, in the department, and determine the school structure in Stavanger, Flekkefjord or Hadsel. The Minister of Knowledge has refused to attend an interview on the matter. He refuses to answer the evening mail's questions. So I will now repeat a question the Minister of Knowledge refused to answer to, to the Prime Minister. Does the Prime Minister feel that it is immaterial that the establishment of these private schools has negative consequences for the quality of public school provision in the municipality in question?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e699	Firstly, it is important to remember that the law of free school and our starting point for permitting fresh schools also have a starting point in our human rights, in parents' rights to e.g. to be able to choose alternative beliefs and schools related to them. So it's important to remember that we weigh different questions in this context. This means that there must always be a discretionary assessment of the freedom of choice, and the discretionary assessment is, in fact, more to the ministry than it will be to the Directorate of Education in this kind of context. So it is important for me to say that I believe that based on what is stated in the evening post, there is no basis for concluding and saying that something has been done that is wrong or that is contrary to something. On the contrary, I think this is within the discretionary room that will be, not least because the leaders that were given by Stortinget in 2007 – a large majority in which we from my party did not participate, but in which the Workers' Party included – among others. underlined that the economy was not an independent basis for saying no. It was stated in the preparatory work for this law that ‘in practice, the municipality’s economy has been of primary importance as an independent objection to ROBEK municipalities’. It is then necessary to assess whether the municipalities in question may have been ROBEK municipalities. These are the preparations for understanding that kind of argument. So it's probably important that you see that you have a discretionary room, and basically it's so that fresh chairs are also something people have a right to establish, as long as it doesn't seriously conflict with the other principles that have been set up. However, limitations have been placed on the extent to which, for example: the economy of municipalities can be used as an argument for why a free school cannot be established. In many of these cases it is not that the fresh school has led to the closure of another school. In many of these cases, health schools are established because the municipality has closed a local school offer. That is why we have had many montessori schools around the country because schools have been offered in rural areas, and parents have not wanted the children to be busied so far, and set up their own boarding school.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e710	Now I think the Prime Minister is talking away from the matter. I really wish that the Right and Government were a little more honest in their answers, because here you're hiding behind the law and understanding. I think you should have just said – honestly and honestly – what is the intention behind it: it is the ideologically motivated and wanted privatisation of the school that Right here wants. Reality is quite different from what the Prime Minister now describes. In Flekkefjord, for example, where the department said that the school was not likely to be closed, one now has to leave the public school. This goes beyond quality, and I think this rhymes poorly with all these celebrations Right has that quality in school is important. Here, the ideology is more important, and I interpret the Prime Minister as saying that the negative consequences locally are not important for the government. But I would also like to ask – for this matter is a little bit about what this discretion that the government politically uses when a review of the directorate is: Does the prime minister mean that the directorate then interprets the law incorrectly, so that's why the department turns to the decision in a majority of the cases they receive?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e719	Firstly, a number of schools have also been rejected in the complaint process, where the reasons have actually been the impact of the school on the municipality and the objections from the municipality. So the picture is not such that everyone who has complained has received a yes. On the contrary, a real discretionary assessment is made. It is also important to say that there is a different room of discretion in a politically run department than it is in a directorate. It has always been this way in all cases relating to the right of appeal. Here, one has to look at different reasons and weigh the objections from the municipality against the right that parents actually have to have to have their children walking in a school that has a view of life and views that they agree with. I stress that it is entirely in line with the preparatory work that was in place, and with the comments signed by the Workers' Party in connection with the 2007 treatment in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e728	There will be follow-up questions – first Torstein Tvedt Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e733	I agree that the matter is about discretion. It's interesting to see that every time the government uses discretion, it ends up privatizing and saying yes to setting up new private schools. It sounds to me like ideology. Here is the background to the refusal of the directorate with professional responsibility, the municipalities have not wanted to set up these schools and justify it destroying the school structure locally and giving poorer quality to the school. So when the prime minister now talks about different considerations, it's really not quite right. It is ideology that is the consideration of the government in these matters. And not least that with these decisions you go across the quality of school, I think it's very regrettable. The Minister of Knowledge himself has replied that he used his discretion in the law to land on a different assessment, so I would like to ask again: What is the Prime Minister's reason for changing the decision of professional bodies politically in the department?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e738	Prime Minister Solberg!
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e744	First of all, it's a little confusing with this Solberg award -- I kept taking the word instead.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e749	It's a little confusing for the President, too, but now it's Prime Minister Solberg! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e754	Thank you! First of all, it's incorrect to say that on ideological grounds we say yes, when we actually say no to a series. It is assessed, but it is also such that, as the Board of Appeal, it has a politically controlled body, as a department, a somewhat greater degree of discretion than that of the Directorate of Education. If it hadn't been necessary to have a Board of Appeal that was political, because it's actually like this in every case where it's not clearly circumscribed that it's just the legal basis to make use of. And here are the values you have to set up against each other. How strong is this relative to the municipality's economy? What does that mean? And you have to remember that the bulk of the population, which we weren't part of, underlined that the economy alone can't be a reason for this, and stressed that it's a right. And it's one of the fundamental rights that lies in the purpose of the law on high school education, namely that parents should have an opportunity to choose alternatives in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e759	Tvidt Solberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e764	It's okay that we're in different parts, it makes it at least easier to define! I want to get a little bit more into this with the quality, because that's what's the reason for the rejections in the municipalities and the directorate. The councilman in Flekkefjord himself says that here loses professional and rational arguments for political leadership. Now I'm trying an even more direct question to the Prime Minister about this with quality, because I understand that she's very concerned about quality in school, but here's one that makes decisions that go across quality. Does the Prime Minister not see that it is unfortunate when a person is really concerned about quality?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e771	This is an assessment that needs to be made on a case-by-case basis, whether this is at the expense of quality, or of a new offer, freedom of choice for parents and the ability to have a local school offer with a different educational content, such as: a montessori school, will provide increased quality, at least for the students who go there, in both their schooling and their everyday lives. That has to be taken into account, but there are different considerations that have to be measured against each other. It is not possible to say on a general basis where you end up in each case, because it will depend on the documentation, what is presented, and how much impact it will have in the municipalities – in line with what the Workers' Party was involved in in the majority comments behind the 2007 Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e776	The oral question procedure is now over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e790	There will be some changes to the questionnaire, and the President will refer to the electronic question list in this section. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Marit Knutsdatter Strand to the Minister for Finance, is postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e808	So this question is postponed to the next question hour.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e816	‘There has been an alarming increase in violence in school lately. More than six months ago, the Labour Inspectorate produced a report that gave cause for concern. What measures have the Council of State taken to prevent violence at school and to improve the knowledge of teachers and other employees at school and the SFO on the prevention, assessment and management of violence at school?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e823	The school shall be a safe place to be and a good place to learn. The student survey figures show a decrease in the proportion of pupils who respond to being beaten, pushed or held up at school. Municipalities that report that more teachers are subjected to violence explain that this is due to more systematic reporting. So we don't have a basis for saying that the problem of violence in school is growing nationally. But there may be an increase in some municipalities and in some schools, and of course we have to take the problem of violence in school seriously. The law is clear. Employees should be safe at work, and students should be safe and sound at school. School owners and employers are primarily responsible for the safety of the school and the working environment. School owners and employers must work actively with the prevention and management of violence at school. I would like to stress the importance of professional management, good follow-up, a safe working environment and not least a culture of transparency in individual schools. Good cooperation between management, trustees, all employees and students is important. Violence in school is a complex problem. The government has therefore put in place a number of different measures that can play a positive role in the fight against bullying and for a good learning environment. Among other things, we have amended the legislation for a safe and good working environment, so as to make it clear the duty of the school owner to build and implement measures against bullying and other infringements. We have focused on increasing skills, increasing teacher density and more health care professionals. I have taken the initiative that some county councils and municipalities can take on a leading role in preventing and dealing with violence and outrageous behaviour and behaviour in the school. School violence is often, but not always, linked to the need for other support measures. Children may need services from, for example: child protection, health care, the BUP or other. These are the themes at the heart of the new government’s recent announcement: Close-up – early efforts and inclusive community in kindergarten, school and SFO. There, the government announces measures to ensure that the various services cooperate better for the benefit of the child. I believe that this will also be important to prevent and reduce violence in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e834	I agree with the Council of State that this, fortunately, is not something all students or teachers experience, but it is alarming when the conclusion of the report of the Labour Inspectorate is that teachers and those who work in school are some of the most vulnerable occupational groups. One points out that one in the schoolwork — as the Labour Inspectorate often does in their supervision — is poor practice, poor practice and poor planning. I would also like to refer to the Education Association's studies on the same among its members, where one also says that development is that there are several cases in primary schools, that it is across the country, and that it is not an Oslo problem or a big city problem. I would challenge the Council of States to be even more specific about the need for clearer national guidelines to improve the procedures and whether it has more tools to put in the toolbox — both in terms of prevention and in terms of resources for more groups of professionals in school who can help manage the situation when they appear.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e847	I fully agree with the representative Tvedt Solberg that both the Labour Inspectorate's report after the supervision and the Education Association's report is alarming. This is something we need to take the most seriously, both locally — schools and school owners — and, of course, nationally. I'm not sure if guidelines are the way to go, but that there may be a need for better guidance, I'm quite convinced, because it's important that teachers have good legal certainty, that teachers don't feel alone, that it's a good culture of transparency, and that you don't fear to give a message. I also agree that prevention or empowerment is absolutely essential, because where competence enhancement is systematically pursued and they use the tools we have, we also see that they are more successful in creating a better working environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e856	I'll do a little bit of a concrete example. Last week we were able to follow the case of the teacher Clement Saers in the law of law, which is one of the teachers who has been subjected to violence at work, in the municipality of Oslo. The case is now closed in the law of the team. The matter is serious. Clement Saers was almost killed by a student at work. He was rescued by two other students and ended up with irreparable damage to his neck after the attack. What he says himself, and which is also the background to the discussion that the court has, is that what bothers him the most afterwards, is how the employer handled the matter, or rather did not handle the matter in a good way. That is why this case also serves as an example of one of the issues raised by the Labour Inspectorate in his report: that there are not enough systems, or guidance for that matter. I will not ask the Council of State to comment on that matter in particular – he can do it if he wants to – but my question is more directly about what the Council of State thinks about who is responsible for the life, health and safety of teachers in classrooms, when a person sees a kind of case like this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e863	I've only registered that matter through the media, and I think it's important that there is openness about this type of case, because we know that violence and threats unfortunately happen, also in Norwegian classrooms. I believe it is absolutely essential that the school owner as an employer takes responsibility. They are responsible for ensuring that teachers are safe at work, and there must be good cooperation with local and local trust leaders. We need to look at different skills-enhancing measures, because we know that competence and prevention are useful. We also need to look at the dissemination of experience, because some schools have good experience in dealing with this. Then it is important that other schools and other school owners also become involved in that competence. And we need to see if there is a need for better guidance from school owners in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e871	«The arrangements for the payment of grants to volunteer centres shall, as is known, be amended from 2021. Then it is to be paid per. population and not per central. Municipalities all over the country express great dissatisfaction with this, as it means the hook on the door for a lot of centers, and an important and wide-ranging community builder is gone. In Helgeland there is a volunteer network with 14 municipalities, in total these lose $5.8 million from 2021. Will the Council of State consider agreeing to continue the very good arrangement of the day?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e878	The earmarked grant to volunteer centres was included in the municipality’s framework grant from 2017 onwards and is allocated with a separate breakdown of the income system for a transitional period of four years. In recent years, we have increased the allocation to municipalities with volunteer centres. In 2019, a record 187 million. kr in specifically allocated framework grants to approximately 360 municipalities with volunteer centres. The significant increase in State aid during the transitional period from 2017 to 2020 has given municipalities and volunteer centres time and space to enter into future operations agreements, thereby creating predictability. A whole local government sector wants as much detailed management as possible from the state, and it follows up the government. The aim of integrating the State grant to the volunteer centres into the municipality's framework grant is to give municipalities a greater and more comprehensive responsibility for local volunteering policies. Local needs, assessments and priorities should form the basis for support for volunteering, and the distribution according to the normal criteria of the income system enables municipalities to implement voluntary policies in the way they consider best. Today, only municipalities organise the work through a volunteer centre, which receives extra funding for this, while municipalities with a different organisation are not allowed to participate in these funds. This will change when the funds are allocated to all municipalities according to the normal criteria. I trust our local politicians, and I am sure that municipalities will continue to give priority to supporting volunteering, among others. through grants to volunteer centres, including from 2021 onwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e887	The Centre Party is also known for local self-government in the municipalities, subject to a financial framework allowing equivalent services to be provided throughout the country. It refers to the framework grant and trust in the municipalities, which we agree with, but we still see the sense that in some cases it may be healthy to keep what we like to call earring or special distribution, so that you can ensure that you can hire people in full positions, as it works at volunteer centres. Other organisation may be discussed. With the new scheme, very many municipalities will have a large cut in transfers. All municipalities with less than 12 000 inhabitants will experience reductions, and in 2020 there are still 73 pst. by Norwegian municipalities less than 10000 inhabitants. Is the Council of State that the organisation of voluntary work will work as well in these municipalities, which get e.g. 150 000 kroner less, and how do you imagine that these part-time positions should be manned?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e896	So a whole local government sector is very clear that they want less detail management. The Andreassen committee pointed to some 240 earmarked schemes. We've taken the municipal sector seriously. We've gone through the ear-marked arrangements thoroughly, and we're proposing 14 of them integrated. It is about the provision of activities to demente, it is about early school interventions – that is, in very important areas – and we are going to hit this point, so that municipalities can give priority to it. As far as voluntary policy is concerned, it is not a question of cutting, it is a question of transferring a record high allocation to this very purpose. Today, municipalities that do not organise this through volunteer centres get nothing, while those who have chosen that form get everything. I have great confidence that local politicians are engaged in volunteering, and that they organize it the way they think is best. And of course you can think of other ways to distribute it, but the population grant is the best thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e905	In large parts of the country, especially in the north, we don't necessarily have too little people, but we have too much space. However, even in district municipalities, volunteer centres do invaluable work, which has been carried out by the Council of State, as assistance for patient travel, provision for elderly and lonely, and help for teams and associations, and may be the main player in integration and inclusion work. It is relatively clear that a strong reduction will make it more difficult for those municipalities that receive less funding to continue this, even if you want to. In the past, there was a similar proposal on veterinary watch grants, but fortunately, the Minister of Agriculture turned around for pressure and input. And despite the fact that KS believes that there is no need for detailed management, in some cases it is necessary, and the municipalities and volunteer agencies want this. I therefore ask again: is there any chance that the Council of State could use the coming year to reconsider the change and assess the continuation of today's system of rescuing volunteering and volunteering centres in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e916	I agree with the representative that, in some cases, ear marking is necessary. I don't think this is one of those areas, and it's just because I think this is a high priority area for all local politicians. And so we're going to transfer a record high sum for that purpose. In the case of district municipalities, we have an income system that just transfers more per capita to district municipalities than to, for example, district municipalities. the big cities, and that's precisely because you have district disadvantages. It takes over the income system. Then I have a great deal of understanding that the centres still want funding this way, but it's like KS and a whole municipality of Norway have asked for less detail management, less earmarking, and then we do it in many important areas. This is an important area, but it is also an area I am absolutely sure that local politicians are able to prioritise in a very good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e928	My question is: ‘The Council of State stated in its statement to the Stortinget that it was not until December 2018 that Nav had misinterpreted Regulation 883/2004. Can the Council of State explain whether there have been any enquiries to the Council of State on issues relating to this complex before December 2018?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e937	In my presentation on 5 November 2019, I told Stortinget what we know about the matter now. There I informed that in November/December 2018 we received enquiries from the directorate that they considered the legislation unclear and wanted to discuss the matter with the department. That is how the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs became familiar with the matter. But I also announced that we would initiate an investigation. Then we'll be able to get more information and knowledge about how the error could happen, and why it took so long before the wrong practice was stopped. I can't or will rule out that this work leads to more facts and new questions on the table. We have now appointed a sample to examine all relevant aspects of the case relating to the incorrect practice of access to sick pay, redundancy benefits and care allowance when staying in another EEA country. The selection shall carry out a thorough and complete review of the matter, with a view to identifying how the error has occurred and how it has been carried out over such a long period of time. The committee shall assess all relevant aspects of the matter. The handling and role of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in the matter shall also be assessed.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e948	I did not feel that I received an answer to the question I asked the Council of State. As representatives of big business, we have the opportunity to ask questions to the Council of State at the main hall, and after we were informed in the presentation, there has been a lot of information. Among other things, we saw in the VG yesterday that we have received information about a note sent to the ministry, which referred to the theme of different treatments. We have read that trustees have raised issues about this. The online action of those with redundancy payments reveals that there has been no transparency in a case before the Court of Justice of the European Union concerning the interpretation of EU social security and social security legislation not so many years ago. And then my question is, was this information that the Council of State was familiar with when the statement was given?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e953	In my statement I informed about the information that I had now known had come to the department on this matter. But as I said then, and as I say now, I can't rule out when we start turning on the stones, that there can be more information up that I certainly didn't know about. I am also familiar with – and so in Dagbladet – the statement of trustees who believe that it has been given information. The meeting that was held then was a preliminary meeting with ESA on a completely different type of case, and was not about what this matter was about. But once again: I think we're going to be pretty humble, because when we start looking, starting to turn every rock, it could come up information that I didn't have per week. But I stand by the fact that what I then knew was the information I also gave to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e962	Thanks for the answer. As deposit representatives, we get a lot of requests on the Nav case. There is information about documents that are not recorded. I expect the Council of State has also received and received such enquiries. Has the State Council itself received enquiries involving the interpretation of EEA law in the field of cash benefits, during the time she has been the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e969	Not as I have registered, but I cannot exclude it. Now we're also going through everything that's come into the department. There may have been enquiries from individuals, but not that I have registered or that have captured that deal with this. But once again, when we're going to go through everything that's gone in and out of the department and the directorate, I can't rule out that something has happened. However, there have been no signals to me that I have registered that it has been what must be said to be incorrect implementation, incorrect interpretation and incorrect practice in almost speaking throughout the administration and also the courts. I haven't caught that up. But once again, the review will show us what we've got, and what we should have caught up with.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e977	‘The net loss of unscrupulous foreign trailers in Norwegian winter roads is increasing. We see a lot of notices about foreign car trains blocking roads, and people who are afraid. This is not only a significant road safety problem, but is also involved in destroying the Norwegian transport industry. In our promotion, the Workers' Party presented ten proposals for safer transport on Norwegian roads. These were defeated by the government parties. We've heard the council say that the effort has increased, but it doesn't seem to have worked. Will there be a change in the efforts of the Council of State in this area?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e984	First of all, when the representative tries to give the impression that nothing has happened, it is a proven error. This government has taken a number of measures to prevent accidents involving heavy goods vehicles in recent years. We've targeted the control business, we've tightened up the demand for winter equipment, and we've given stronger ground to keep driving back. In order to get dangerous vehicle trains away from Norwegian winter roads, we are now strengthening the control business further in the 2020 budget. In addition, the fee for breakage of the current winter tyre and chain requirements has increased from this winter onwards. It is also ensured that a fee is paid for each piece of paper, which gives a much more severe reaction to bad-boiled heavy-duty cars than before. Furthermore, this government has adopted stricter requirements for winter tyres for heavy goods vehicles to enter into force on 15 November 2020. Norway will then become the first country in the world to demand the best winter tyres – the marked alpine symbol – for a heavy-duty car. We are introducing this requirement with as short a transitional period as possible. Germany and Sweden have already introduced the same requirements, but with a transitional period which lasts until 2024. It is also important that drivers have adequate skills to run under difficult conditions. The Ministry of Transport has worked systematically to strengthen EU requirements for professional skills as a result of EU Directive 2003/59. The work has resulted in the revision of the directive adopted in the spring of 2018 requiring competence to run under extreme weather and traffic conditions. It enters into force from 2020. I believe that these measures will have an effect, and I do not think it is possible to say now that they will not have an effect. At the same time, we have seen over time that the work we have done has produced results. The accident statistics show, among other things: that the number of accidents involving heavy goods vehicles has fallen by 55 pst. from 2012 to 2018, or from 241 to 109 accidents. Let me add that there's still 109 too many, but there's a significant reduction in the number of accidents with heavy goods vehicles. In 2018, heavy goods vehicles were triggering factors in 8 out of 27 heavy-duty accidents. In these, Norwegian road vehicles were the trigger in 6 of the 8, while foreign vehicles were the trigger in 2 accidents. This problem is complex and needs to be met by a number of measures. That's what the government's doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e997	The most recent measures are important, and we support them, of course, but a one-off sum of 20 million. kr for increased controls in 2020 is not enough. In particular, the lack of long-term sustainability and the lack of inspectors and skills-enhancing concerns about the industry. The working party proposes another 30 million. kr to out-of-office checks for next year, and we believe that one needs to develop the technology so that the controls become easier. The state Road Service is in the midst of a reorganisation, and the Labour Inspectorate has lost 36 posts in the last two years. We use funds for firefighting while prevention has disappeared, they say. What does the Council of State think about these feedbacks?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e1002	Let me first say that there are significant deviations from the feedback we also get. We're talking about more measures. One of the things that will be more effective is if we can better sort out which types of vehicle we're controlling. It's raised beyond doubt. It is not effective to stop the same trucks every day. Using technology to find better selection methods that allow us to test the cars – but also the hangers, which are mostly during replacement once or more times a day – is important in that work. At the same time, it's crucial that we get risk-based supervision. This means that I have been very careful to give leadership on how the team should use the extra privileges they get, and on how the supervision is organised, on the basis that I intend to let professionals fight this as effectively as possible, but for detailed guidance on the use of the money.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e1007	Another factor is that both the employer and the transport buyer have to be held more responsible than at present for the pressure on a driver to deliver within specified deadlines. One element that the Council of State also mentioned is competence in winter driving. The last moment I want to develop is climate change with extreme weather conditions that require improved road maintenance and better information. We made ten proposals for measures that were voted down by the government parties in ours, and now the Council of State itself has put in place three of them – not until the end of this year – but can we hope that the other seven proposals will also be made in this work?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e1012	It would be nice if the representative did not contribute to misinforming what is actually already in force. Stronger charges have already entered into force, individual charging has already entered into force, and a decision has been taken on the tightening of winter tyres requirements, which will enter into force next year. So some of these measures are already in progress, together with the increased control activity. But the reason we voted against some of these proposals last year was that, after all, this was all about an ongoing work that had already been started. That was the basis for it. I have said it all the time and I would like to say it again: we have followed up on all the essentials of professional advice we have received to fight against heavy car crime – people who run without being spared it under the Road Traffic Act – and we will intensify that work for years to come as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e1020	‘People will use the railway and there are great expectations for future offers. More people are going to get there faster, is the goal. Norwegian trains are responsible for renting train equipment to the passenger train operators. Bane Nor is responsible for the railway network. Today's train is of very different standard. It does not help to invest in the rail network if it is not simultaneously invested in modern train equipment. Is the Council of State certain that there are enough trains available to escape the increased growth of passengers in the years to come?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e1027	Let me just first agree with the representative that it is not useful to spend billions on investment unless there are more trains running, and therefore we have sufficient train equipment. We are now implementing in the period 2012-2022, including the period that the Central Party last put into government, the acquisition of 150 new train sets of type Flirt. Major parts of the local and regional train park in Austria are renewed, Vossebanen got new running gear from 2018, and from 2021 – earlier than previously estimated – the Trønderbanen gets new train sets, 14 bimodal trains. The Directorate for Railways follows on from developments on Norwegian rail, and ensures that we have route provision to help more people actively choose the train. The Directorate, in consultation with Norwegian trains, has developed a material strategy for the railway sector up to 2029. The Strategy Paper identifies the need for trains based on the improvements in supply mentioned in Roadmap 27, which are also anchored in the Storting through the National Transport Plan. The document also contains an assessment of the technical and market life of existing railway vehicles and the length of time that they can be expected to be in service. The difference between the two parameters gives an answer as to what kind of new trains we're going to need and how time they have to run. In order to strengthen capacity-enhancing local train traffic in the Austland, a preliminary decision has been taken on the basis of which to purchase new local trains, in addition to those already mentioned, to the Eastfold Railway. I will follow this up and come back to Stortinget at a later time. This means that we are in the process of implementing the largest investments that have been made in Norwegian railways since a completed Nordlandsbahn in 1962, while at the same time driving a large-scale recovery, for example. by the signalling system, which is one of the things that gives us the greatest challenges of keeping up, and we're doing the purchase of new train equipment. In sum, it helps to equip us for growth in passenger traffic for years to come. However, when I now choose to repeat that we have all the material we need, it is because the growth on the railway is formidable. More and more well to use it, and it could potentially be our biggest challenge if the supplier market is too slow. That's why we've developed this strategy paper, and that's why, as a government, we want to follow it up, to make sure that the positive growth that comes on the Norwegian railway system can be met by an improved supply.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e1044	The Council of State is a bit concerned with this strategy paper itself, but it is true that there are significant changes from the old NSB’s business model for the management of trains and to the situation we are experiencing today. Now I am talking primarily about maintenance. The NSB had its own revenues, including: from property, which was used to finance maintenance, the purchase of critical components. The upgrade was then taken over the normal operation, so there was a great deal of freedom of action. Norwegian trains have no income other than through rental income from the operators given in the lease for the entire period. Nor does the model as practised allow Norwegian trains to increase the rental of operators for necessary maintenance. It is also a fact that operators operate with greater estimates of passenger growth than the 5 pst. annual growth taken into account by the Directorate-General for Railways. Norwegian trains have to pass through the directorate, department and staging in order to obtain legal protection for their projects. Is the Council satisfied with the way in which the management of trains is taking place today?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e1051	I wouldn't have been happy if the representative's description were 100 pst. That's right, Fortunately, she's not. It is true that Norwegian trains also have revenues through, for example: For example, either residual assets or directs money as one. can be used for the mid-life upgrade, which is about the renewal and therefore the maintenance of the material. In addition, there is a lot of running maintenance to keep the train fleet up to date. I visited e.g. yesterday the newly built workshop in Rogaland, which is operated by Mantena, under contract with Go-Ahead, which will operate from 15 December, and which has now invested in – under market conditions, through Bane NOR Eiendom – a new workshop. Of course, there is a train inside every fourteen days for running maintenance. So it's probably not as square as the representative wants to make it that way, and that's what makes the railway work as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e1058	Then I realize that there are some challenges, the way you express it, but anyway. As I understand it now, Norwegian trains need a minimum of 25-30 trains per year. The flight train and the Flirt train took it a six to seven years to get in place, and it takes at least four to five years to get a new train in place today as well. The booking period may be halved if option agreements exist. Such option agreements do not exist today, but they are based on other large government purchases, such as: in the Defence. According to the plan, the old route between Oslo and Ski will receive the new ERTMS signal system in 2023, which you were in on yourself, and that is after the Folloban opens. The old localogens shall not be equipped with this system, which prevents them from entering as fallback solutions. What will the Council of State do to increase the capacity of Follo and Eastfold as Folloban opens in 2023, and not just leave it as it is today?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e1067	The President will state that the Council of State must be appealed to by the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e1072	Once again to correct the premises, because as I said, when it comes to the Eastfold road, I will come back to the Biggest on the basis that there is now a premising basis for investment in new material there. When it comes to what the representative calls option agreements, it doesn't exist: this government has already benefited from present option agreements, which we have triggered, and with it acquire more material than what was initially in the first purchase packages, which came at the last time the Central Party was in government. So neither is it right. Very often, when we have concluded contracts for the supply of materials, we have also concluded agreements that give options to trigger even further, if necessary. Of course, there is something we consider in any purchase whether we should do to have sufficient capacity on train equipment, including for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e1084	«Last winter there were many terrible traffic accidents on Norwegian winter roads where wagon trains were involved. Over the last few weeks, we've seen several videos where car combinations have slipped off the road, and only luck has caused no one to be hurt. The Facebook group ‘Stop dead-strails on Norwegian winter roads!’ has grown to over 30,000 members in just a few days. The exposure is quite large. Measures and instruments to prevent accidents are requested. Is the Council of State planning to take action in this matter before we have another terrible traffic accident?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e1091	The answer to that is yes, and it has been done by the government over the last six years, which I also referred to in the reply to the representative Leirtrø. Let me just say first that I think it is good that so many people get involved in safer conditions on Norwegian winter roads. I want to give credit to the initiators behind this Facebook group. They promise an important issue and a great challenge that would have been very tempting to say that we can solve politically only by putting two lines under a simple answer – that is not the case. What goes on on Norwegian winter roads – I refer again to my answer to Leirtrø – is not just about foreign car combinations that are not spared to be there. It is about the fact that it is imperative to control Norwegian running conditions for periods. It's about the material having to be sufficiently protected, whether it's a tyre, chain or a place to load directly in the trailer – we see a lot of deviations. Or it's not a question of cheating with running and hump times, which we see breaking, or of having adequate brakes, which we also see breaking – and that applies to both Norwegian and foreign actors. This means that much of what we're talking about in this context is actually illegal. It's illegal. What is at stake is great control, cooperation between public services, the Labour Inspectorate, the police, the State Road Service, which is already being intensified, and has been the whole thing since last winter. Permits to increase control, 20 million. kr, comes to the top of what we've already turned of resources towards this in the existing budget, and not least we need to find more effective methods to select well what kind of vehicle combinations we're checking, and with what frequency we're doing it. One of the most important instruments we now have is the State Road Information System (IT) which, fortunately, they've got up and gone, which allows them to exercise more effective controls than before. So this is a demanding job, and I should like it to be possible to give faster answers, but it's not, because it's extremely complex, also because it's partly illegal states. It is decisive that we as public authorities exercise reasonable and effective controls, and at the same time that buyers of transport services, goods owners, follow up their duty to look at this in such a way that we know that there are serious carriers on the road, and that work continues.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e1100	‘There shall be no luck making us survive or not’. That's Ramona Lind's word. She lost her son in a bad traffic accident last winter. She fights a hard fight to intensify the rules of car trains on Norwegian winter roads. It should not be the case that there are relatives who have to fight this fight. We politicians are responsible, and it is the Council of State that has the highest responsibility. More calls for even more stringent measures, both professional environments, organisations and not least the population. Is the Council satisfied with what the government has done in the last six years? And does the Council of State think that the measures now taken are good enough?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e1109	I do not mean that there is a basis for saying that all the measures we have now taken are good enough. But it's the best measures we know about, it's the most effective. And it is not right, what the representative says, that all other actors are calling for entirely different measures. On the contrary – in the hearing round we had when we both tightened the requirements for winter tyres and increased the fee rates, several said that we should have had a longer transition period. It is not only Norway's Lastebileier Association and others who have said that we should have a transitional period, also the police have meant it. It's not like there's a whole bunch of professional advice being translated and neglected here, on the contrary, it's a systematic follow-up of what's needed to carry out effective controls, discover what's illegal, and make sure that we have a code that's so simple and effective to handle that we actually get rid of those who don't have anything to do on Norwegian winter roads. It's a task we're serious about, and we're going to intensify our efforts over the next few years.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e1114	I notice that the Council of State has repeatedly pointed out that stricter requirements for tyres have been introduced by the government, which is only introduced in a year's time. The requirements of the government are, according to EU standards, marked with the so-called Alpine symbol, if they are approved. But it is worth noting that these tyre requirements do not apply to trailers for vehicle combinations. Rightly, many have criticised that this is not strict enough. Traffic adviser and former traffic police in Tromsø, Alf Arne Hövergård, call the new marking symbol policy, and believe the Alpine symbol provides false security. He believes that Norwegian authorities must dare to impose requirements on foreign drivers, such as Norwegian drivers. It is about the fact that driving conditions in Norway in winter time are much more demanding than in other EU countries. Does the Council of State agree that the EU’s requirements for tyres to be introduced by Norway are not good enough? And will the Council of State consider even more stringent requirements for tyres?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e1119	The last thing I don't exclude is that I want to. But the alpe symbol that we are now actually demanding – first in the world, four years before all other countries have chosen to do so – is the best winter cover on the market now. It's almost amazing to right at the Center Party, which when they put in government last, wouldn't even impose winter tyres requirements on Norwegian trucks hangers. Now that the beep has received another audio, it is a good character. I'll give the Centre Party a hand for once again to turn the cloak after the wind. That is good in this case, because what has been of legislation in this area has been for slaughter. And it has taken time to clean up the legislation, which has been too bad, across previous governments. That's what we're doing. And what we're introducing now is the best cover requirement we can have, and we're introducing it as fast as it's practically possible to make it work.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e1127	‘The winter has come to Norway, and once again people live in fear of serious accidents caused by foreign vehicle combinations without adequate equipment and competence for driving on Norwegian winter roads. In a few days' time, the Facebook group ‘Stop dead bars on Norwegian winter roads!’ has received over 30,000 followers. What measures will the government take to ensure that drivers of non-resident vehicle combinations have sufficient competence in driving on Norwegian winter roads?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e1134	Let me once again pay tribute to the initiators of this Facebook group, who openly take an important part of a serious and demanding matter, namely how we are going to have as safe a path as possible, even in wintertime throughout the country. Again to the premises in the question: as I have been in my previous answers, which deal with much of the same topic, it is unfortunately not such that we can only hunt the foreign carriers in this. Fortunately, the number of accidents on Norwegian winter roads is improving – there are still too many – but it is more complex than the fact that a simplified requirement for competence for foreign operators alone solves the problem we are facing. Nevertheless, the representative has a significant point of being too weak in this area. For this reason, as I was also involved in a previous response, we have worked hard to actually put in place a stricter EU legislation, which means that drivers who have expired and have taken certificates in the EU area, which thus has access to running in Norway, actually have sufficient competence to master the conditions that are here. It'll be in place for the first time in 2020. I believe there is an important measure that can contribute, even if I believe that it would still be possible for the EU to be even more stringent in this area. In total, however, this is demanding, because we need to be able to strengthen the requirements for drivers, for tyre equipment and for the competence – both for foreign and Norwegian carriers – in terms of what it really affects traffic safety on the Norwegian road. In the last few weeks, we see, for example: that one is given fewer running bans due to poor tyre equipment, e.g., while we still have too many challenges for poor brakes. After all, it is almost unlikely for ordinary people to see that they will run a truck where they do not have properly equipped brakes when, for example, a truck is running. has picked up a trailer, but that's unfortunately what we see in some cases. This means that we need to carry out systematic work on both competence requirements, systematic follow-up and effective controls, in order to obtain from the owners the material that has nothing to do on the roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e1143	I noticed that the Council of State gives tribute to the Facebook group that will stop the death straggles. That's all there's to it. But this group doesn't pay homage to the government's work. On the contrary, it gives rise to massive and powerful criticisms because one does not have sufficient measures — often contrary to important measures. The checks are too few, the requirements for tyre equipment are not good enough, and the training requirements, which then come from the EU, are, of course, completely blue in view of what this will mean. I fully agree that one should make clear demands for both Norwegian road drivers and foreign road drivers. Therefore, the position of the centre party is that one shall have the same driver training requirements for foreign train drivers as for Norwegian wagon train drivers. Why is the Council of State not willing to participate in such a proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e1152	We have a harmonised European legislation on this, which means that cross-border transport works, and if we had got the EU to go as far as we saw demands, I would like to be in favour of it. That is also what we have been working for for the EU over several years. Now we've come a long way, because from 2020 on, they've been demanding that you be able to handle extreme weather and traffic conditions – winter is part of that picture. We have come a long way, but I should have liked us to have come a bit further, and the Norwegian work for that goes on. It is still this way – I just have to point it out again – that there was no single requirement for winter tyres on Norwegian car trailers when the Senterpartet was in government last time. There is a lot of work to do to clean this up, but things are going on now. We have to carry out effective controls, we have to tighten up the legislation, and the rules that we have now had on the ear ring get broad support – among other things. Norwegian lorry owners say that this is a reasonable grip.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e1159	Now the state council is once again trying to hide behind what was the legislation far back in time. I can admit that a return in time should have had stricter requirements for safety. When I was little, there was no requirement for one to wear a seat belt in the rear seat of the cars either. That didn't make any sense either. But it doesn't provide security for people today to discuss what should have been the rules 8, 10 or 20 years ago. The question is what kind of requirement you have to make today, based on the situation that exists, with a massive number of non-resident car combinations on Norwegian roads, because you have a relaxed regulatory framework in terms of competence, far too poor controls and too poor measures over time. To this end, the training: what the Council of State is now saying is that we are now just going to put a trust in some vague wording in an EU document on driving training, rather than saying that in order to ensure the safety of those travelling on the roads in Norway, there must be the same requirements for foreign train trains as what we have history of in Norway. Why can't the Council of State be involved?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e1168	It's possible I'm naive, but I expected a certain seriousness from the big ones here, too. What is the case is that we have now established a harmonised regulatory framework that imposes stricter requirements on competence in order to master the running conditions we have in Norway – it is point 1 that we come with in 2020. The second is that there are equal demands, whether one is a foreign or Norwegian carrier, for what kind of equipment you should have on the cars. There's no difference. The third thing I've already seen in a previous answer, which I noticed that the representative heard, is that several of the serious accidents we've had now happen not to foreign car trains at all, but to Norwegians. And that one has had challenges is not as simple as the Center Party likes to try to do it; it requires considerable work, systematic and targeted, to pick out those who systematically break the law as it is in force. There are no stricter laws that are the main challenge; it's actually being able to live by it. And that's where we have the most important job ahead of us in the months that come.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e1176	‘Foreign vehicle combinations and drivers without the necessary equipment and/or competence to drive on Norwegian winter roads scare people in traffic and give a big boost to Facebook groups such as ‘Stop the dead rails on Norwegian winter roads!’. The government parties have previously voted in favour of the proposal of the Centre Party to ensure safer heavy transport, on the grounds that the matter is being dealt with. How can it be that people who fear dangerous heavy transport do not see the results of what the government says it does?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e1183	Let me first repeat the birthright from before: one accident with a fatal or severe injury is too much. We have no one to lose on Norwegian winter roads. But the results can be documented: 55 pst. reduction in accidents involving heavy goods vehicles from 2012 to 2018 – a halve of six years. It is increasingly the truck that is the trigger factor when accidents involving the truck actually happen, and of the accidents that occur, there is an overrepresentation in the case of killed Norwegian trucks. So this is not an easy problem to solve by just saying that if we had just been rid of the foreign trucks, we would have solved the problem. This concerns, as I have also repeated several times, the systematic circumvention of the legislation, which we must ensure that effective checks are carried out. It is an important work that has been carried out, which is being intensified, and which is also strengthened by new budget resources from 2020. I'm busy making the grips that work best. For this reason, we have consulted on what kind of measures transport industries think it makes sense to implement, and what kind of intervention, for example. The police think it makes sense to implement. The changes that have now partially taken effect, which will take effect from the next winter on, for example, A sharper deck requirement, is a good example of it. Many actors are recommended, including: the police, a longer transition period than the government is currently carrying out because we are busy getting quick results. We're working at high altitudes to put in place a law as strict as possible as quickly as possible, but the main challenge is still in many cases compliance. This means that if we are to manage to bring down the number of accidents involving the heavy-duty car, we must work with road safety for the heavy-duty car operators – competence requirements, which I have been in response to, stricter regulation and enforcement control – but we also have to make sure that we do several other things that work, when, after all, in many cases it is not the heavy-duty car that is the triggering factor for accidents, but other things. This means that the work on road safety that we are doing, for example: also for people travelling in passenger cars, deciding to strengthen traffic safety along Norwegian winter roads in total. The government does it in several areas and will continue with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e1190	People are worried, people are scared. People have to get in the car when they're going here or there. In large parts of the country there is no train, there is no tram, and there is no bus. Many of these situations, as we see, never end up in any statistics, but on a video that shows that a trailer comes and uses both roads, as it has shrunk and gets on the dial down through it. Drivers often run with small margins. They'll probably drive from Oslo at six o'clock in the evening and be out front in Trondheim at two o'clock. It may go well when there is little traffic and good lead, but when the situation is winter road, it gets worse. What more will the Council of State do to direct responsibility for transport buyers?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e1195	This is a good question, and it's a proper problem description of what happens often. One is so busy getting the goods delivered that one avoids complying with the law. That's what's the main challenge. Breaking the rules on running and sleeping time is illegal. It is illegal not to be obvious and adapt speed and running according to running conditions. The Road Traffic Act regulates this. So what we really have to do is we have to pick away those who deliberately break the law. There is no one running in Norway who is uncertain about the kind of running and sleeping time rules that apply. They know, they just bypass them. It's not accepted for that. Therefore, effective controls are one active substance. The second is to follow this up with transport buyers. Among other things, I had: our previous meeting with large transport buyers, e.g. Fishing companies and fish suppliers in Norway, to make sure that we follow more closely also when we buy transport services, that we actually buy them in a defensive way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e1200	We're looking at a breach, we're looking at a breach, the state council has hit a breach after a breach. This is a serious problem. We know that people can buy driving licences online, and I'm going to challenge the state council if he wants to do something more to protect the road users, if he can imagine perhaps introducing some sort of dot load for the transport company. If you get caught in an illegality, you get a dot. If you get so many dots, you no longer operate a transport company. Then you do something concrete that helps to prevent what is a breach of crime, as the council itself says is a problem issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e1205	There are other debates that have been held in the Storting that have given me the impression that the Centre Party has not, at least in the past, thought that it is a good idea to ban some actors from feeding, even if they have violated the laws and regulations that are in force, in the past. Leave it alone. What is the main principle for all those travelling on the road is that it is the driver who is responsible. I believe that it is an important principle to stick to, because it is the driver of the car who is responsible, so that we also have someone we can be responsible for. This means that if one runs for one transport company and picks up one car trailer from another, it is still the driver who is responsible for ensuring that the material he is out there running on the roads is adequately protected and that the rules are followed. This means that we have to make sure that we keep going, give us a ban on use and the like for those cars that have nothing to do on the roads. We must strengthen the sanctions strongly – we have now done so – and we must regulate ourselves better and carry out more effective controls in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e1216	‘Every year, the Defence Service has provided for washing military clothing so that the Protectors have been able to extract new clothing from the depot. From autumn onwards, soldiers have had to wash military clothes themselves. Now they have to share protective parts on a few washing machines. The result is that the soldiers have to wash clothes at night. It is clear that this goes beyond rest periods and preparedness, and not least poses a risk of infection. It is unworthy, simply shameful, to offer this to those who are in need of protection. Does the Council of State consider this to be the proper treatment of those liable to protection?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e1223	First of all, it's not like this is a new system. It has been this way for many, many years that the defense has had to wash a part of its own clothes. It's about bodily clothing. There's been a lot of reasons for that. In the 1980s it was like we didn't think the underwear of the defense was anything special, we boys who were inside, so we asked thinly to get permission to use a civil shorts. We could do that, provided we were able to wash our underwear ourselves. The cases and the posters we've seen are about bodily clothing. That should not be the case – I fully agree with Mr Borch. The reason why this has happened is, first of all, that the garrison in Inner Troms has got it imposed as the others in the Defense have had, you have to wash bodily clothing yourself. The other problem here is that you have not had enough of the defence clothing available, so they have not been given enough. The third problem is simply that the washing capacity has not been as it should be. The last two points are being improved now. Several washing machines shall be provided, both inflow and water in and drain in order to do so. And there should be so many washing machines that you should not queue at night to get it done. I find it problematic when the guardians do not have access to a washing machine to wash bodily clothing. But I don't want to go so far as to say it's unworthy. I guess I don't think so, but I think it's a situation that the Army is going to deal with and get cleaned up pretty quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e1236	We see that even the commander says that this new arrangement came as a surprise to him. The new regime introduced in the Defence has resulted in cows, frustration and poor washing. There are people who prefer to wear dirty clothes rather than spend time in line. As the council itself mentions, we've read in the media that the risk of infection is increasing, there's more foot soups, brandy cups and even outbursts of sheep. I notice that the Council of State says you should continue to use washing machines, but I will challenge the Council of State on what he has actually intended to do in this matter. Does the Council agree that the system of laundry and depots was a good arrangement? And is he willing to reintroduce it to the Defense?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e1241	Then we're going to have to do it point-by-point. The commander would like to disapprove the scheme, but the scheme is in place and he will implement it. So I've registered in the media, and you can't always rely on the media, that there's an extra eruption of foot soups, there's been extra eruptions of brandy cups, and there's been cases of scabbing. The health of the defense, which has a good handle on the kind of conditions, also in places where there are many, does not find any additional outbreaks of foot soups, they do not find any extra cases of brandy cups. Then you have some cases of scabbardness. They are quite clear that this is not due to the fact that you have not been washed physically, it is due to other things to take care of. What we've done is we've tried to figure out what's the reason for this, and then the FLO and the others who are responsible for it have been told to fix it, and I expect it to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e1248	It is not the first wash scandal that takes place in the Defence under this government and this defence minister. After the ISS got the cleaning team in the defense, there are a number of reports that reveal major deficiencies. In inhabited homes and neighbourhoods in Inner Troms several places have not been regularly cleaned for several months – a clear breach of the contract. The scandal must have led to the need for more buildings on Skjold to remain closed for periods, including: the dining room. The last thing we have seen is the lack of wool socks in the defense. Battalion chiefs have had to collect wool socks on the table so that soldiers can go to practice. This is an unsustainable situation. There are a number of scandals that need to be cleared up, and there has been silence from the Council of State in these matters that now go beyond the Defence, the Protectors and the Preparedness. What does the Council of State intend to do to clean up these matters? And has the Council of State ever intended to do anything?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e1255	What is referred to as the «washing scandal» is also a conversion that saves the defense 400 million. NOK in changing the way we wash our buildings. There have been problems in Inner Troms, it has been taken care of, there is also a new offer on that job. Now the battalion chief has collected what he had of socks and distributed because there was no socks. It's affordable. The commitment we see in the Departments of Defense and among the defence staff the times it shows up unforeseen things are also affordable. We're going to be happy for that. Then I have to be allowed to say that the times these forms of violent scandals appear, I ask from the State Council post what's going on, what's the reason, and if there's nothing that can fix it. I don't think this is something that overturns the Norwegian defence capability.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e1265	‘The electricity price in Norway has risen sharply in recent years and is high in record terms. The Progress Party, with responsibility for the Ministry of Oil and Energy, has wanted more expensive power. On Wednesday this week, people in Norway were reminded that this too could be an expensive winter, as the electricity price increased by a total of 77,4 pst. What measures will the government take to lower the electricity price, and will the Council of State now stop the expansion of the NorthConnect cable?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e1272	The government is concerned that businesses and households throughout the country should have a secure power supply at the lowest possible cost. Norwegian power prices are sensitive to changes in weather and temperature conditions. This is as we know nothing new, but something we like to experience in the winter months. Then I notice, however, that the representative Schlagsvold Vedum has chosen to refer to a single hour. The increased power prices we've seen lately are just related to the weather. There has been a large change in temperature in a short time, and then the power consumption also increases, especially for heating. It is true, as the representative points out, that the Ministry of Oil and Energy has for some time been run by government councils from the Progress Party. We took over a Centerpart-steered department, and with the Central Party government councils as eager proponents, among others. for international connections, an electricity certification scheme was also in place that gave higher electricity prices with low power expansion in Norway. Today's government in a Progress Party-guided oil and energy department has ensured that the extra cost of electricity billing – in terms of electricity certificates – is not passed on. In our morning, Stortinget joined the government's proposal for a special additional allocation of 274 million. NOK for housing support, just to help the recipients pay the electricity bill. The government also reduced the electricity tax in 2019 and proposes only a price adjustment of the normal rate for 2020. Then we suggest closer to 1.5 billion. kr to compensation schemes for the impact of the emission allowance on industry’s electricity prices. In the case of NorthConnect, the Ministry of Oil and Energy has asked the NVE to give an overall assessment of the application before the Ministry of Concession deals with this matter. We have therefore not yet taken a decision on the concession application. Before that time, however, the representative, Mr Schlagsvold Vedum, has the opportunity to discuss the issue of new foreign relations with his party traps. I understand that the Central Party has the rapporteur in seven of the municipalities representing the ownership of NorthConnect. What I can say to the owners of NorthConnect, who will also apply to the Central Party locally, is that we are going to deal with this application for cable in a regular, thorough and proper way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e1285	Tord Lien, who was the Minister of Energy for the Advancement Party, said quite clearly in an interview that he was tired of low power prices. It was kind of the program statement to Tord Lien. And one of the few areas where the Progress Party has really come through is that they've just managed to raise the power price. They also increased electricity charges by more than 38 pst. since they took over the government and they have amended the law. The center party made sure to change the law when we had government power, which meant that it was not possible to build NorthConnect, but now it is possible, and the application for NorthConnect says that it is also going to increase the electricity price in Norway. Erna Solberg said in the oral question procedure earlier today that the electricity price is going to continue to increase, and was a little shaken that I was so worried about it. Does Freiberg agree with Tord Lien that the electricity price is too low? And does he agree with Erna Solberg that the electricity price in Norway is going to continue to increase?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e1292	We have a market-based power system, which I think the Center Party knows very well. The market-based power system causes several things to affect the power price. One of the main issues that affects the power price is what the weather is like in this country. So I just remind you that this government has actually reduced the electricity charge this year. We've also reduced the overall tax and tax level by 25 billion. kr under this government. There have been benefits to ordinary people, motorists and pensioners. I am recording that before Christmas, Schlagsvold Vedum proposed raising taxes and taxes by 4.3 billion kroner. kr. So the charge increase attack has no credibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e1301	I notice that a Progress Party State Council cannot say that he wants a lower electricity price. The previous Progress Party Council said he was tired of low power prices and wanted higher. It's not possible for today's Council of State to distance itself. Prime Minister Erna Solberg said earlier today that we had to expect that the electricity price will continue to increase. I think that is an incredibly defensive objective. The government has also increased the fees. Although they have reduced them once, the sum of government charges is 38 pst. higher now than in 2013. That's what's the fact – that the government has increased the charges on electricity by 38 p.m., which affects ordinary people in common homes in this cold, dark country of ours, where electricity is a completely natural part of daily energy use. I would like to give the Council of State an opportunity to: Does the Council of State agree with Prime Minister Erna Solberg and Tord Lien that the electricity price in Norway should rise? Prime Minister Erna Solberg said that at the latest a little earlier today. Or does the Council of State think that there is a wrong assessment by the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e1308	Governments work every day to get us the lowest possible power price. And I believe that this government has succeeded very much in that regard. Among other things, this government has given 600 new concessions, which have given more renewable power to the Norwegian power system. I just want to point out to the representative about the debate and the question that is being raised about NorthConnect, that now the representative of the Central Party must not be surprised that there is going to be a desire to build more cables, because it is the Central Party who has just invited the initiative on the construction of cables. I just remember the vision of the Centre Party, that Norway was going to become a significant exporter of clean, renewable energy, where we were going to use the hydropower in Norway to become Europe's green battery.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e1315	That being the case, it is no. 2 o'clock.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-13.ana.ud43e1329	There is no record available. This way, the map is ready for processing today. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
