ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e32	The representative of Erlend Wiborg, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. The representative of Marit Knutsdatter Strand will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e40	On behalf of the representative Bengt Fasteraune and myself, I would like to present a proposal for a representative to strengthen mountain farming and further develop the research station Løken in Valdres.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e45	The representative, Mr Knag Fylkesnes, will present two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e50	On behalf of the representatives of Lars Haltbrecken, Karin Andersen, Arne Nävra and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on the future breeding industry. And on behalf of myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative to strengthen the driving industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e57	The representative Per Olaf Lundteg will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e62	On behalf of Kjersti Toppe, Ole André Myhrvold, Marit Knutsdatter Strand, Sigbjørn Gælsvik, Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen and myself, I would like to make a proposal to stop the closure of Ullevål Hospital and ensure that the hospital building in Oslo does not go at the expense of hospital services in the rest of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e67	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. On the basis of the second sentence of the third paragraph of Article 35 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the agenda published for the Stortinget meeting be amended today so that new case No. 2 will be the presentation by the Minister of Industry of Space Norway AS and the satellite communications project in the northern regions. No objection has been raised against the President’s proposal – and it is deemed to have been adopted. For the purposes of this discussion, there are the matters listed on agenda No. 95. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue, if necessary, beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e93	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Right 25 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Left 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Green Party 10 minutes and Red 10 minutes. In addition, up to 10 minutes of speaking time is proposed to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be given a reply to replies from members of the Government and up to four replies from the main speakers and parliamentary leaders of the parties. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e106	Let me start by thanking the Financial Committee for a good cooperation in the examination of the revised National Budget for 2019. The reason for this treatment is that the Norwegian economy is going very well. New jobs are being created, and more and more people are coming to work. It is also a prerequisite for creating a sustainable welfare society. If we as politicians are to be able to further develop the Norwegian welfare society, we must have values to distribute. These values must be created, and therefore there is a clear link between the Norwegian welfare model and how much it is invested, and how many work across the country. A job is not just important to have an income in order to be able to support themselves and theirs. It's well-being to have a job to go to. Having colleagues, noting that you're contributing, and sometimes being asked in the morning because you're late, is one of the finest things we can experience, because then you're useful, and it has something to say to others that you're showing up. The figures are clear: the registered unemployment rate has not been lower in 10 years. Only in the last three years have there been some 95 000 more persons employed. This means that more people are allowed to participate in our society and participate in and contribute – both to their own workplace and to the sprawl layer that Norway is. Nor does it matter where these jobs are created in society. The last year is three out of four jobs created in the private sector. This means that we have more jobs that contribute to the state budget, and thus there is also room for investing in infrastructure, education, a safe and healthy health care and a worthy care for the elderly. But this is not something that has come of itself. And it's also no law of nature that our country continues to evolve in a positive direction. We must constantly renew and change what is needed to keep the best of Norway. Government policies have contributed to the transformation and growth of the Norwegian economy through the necessary reforms to address our country for a new era of new opportunities and challenges: police reform, local and regional reform, rail reform and the New Veger company, to mention something. These are things that can create noise, because conversion is never easy. But conversion is also the story of Norway. We are a country that has constantly changed us. The fact that we have a government and a majority in the United Kingdom implementing such reforms is one of the most important contributions to ensure that Norway will continue to be a sustainable welfare society in the future. Social sustainability depends on small differences, trust between people and reduced poverty. An offensive climate policy is necessary to create ecological sustainability, so that future generations will have as good opportunities as we do. And security is a prerequisite for being free. Therefore, this government is taking more steps to ensure migration and security. We have to use the good times to get even more people to work. That is why we have launched an inclusion tool to enable more people with disabilities or holes in the CV to get to work. In the state budget for 2019, we have allocated 125 million. kr to strengthen the follow-up to this important task. It is therefore decided today to grant 50 million. € to invest in transport solutions at Enova – on top of the massive increase already adopted in the budget – so that it can be invested in green solutions. And that's why we have provided approx. 1,650 more police officers since 2013. Every police district has been strengthened under this government, in terms of both increased appropriations and posts. This strengthens Norway: through long-term and responsible governance, an inclusive working life where more people can contribute, green change and security in everyday life. But let me finally make a little visit to the Workers' Party's alternative budget, which will also be voted on today. When the government's proposal for the revised national budget was presented, the Workers' Party, and not anyone in the Workers' Party, but the party leader and fiscal spokesperson, was out there criticizing the budget for being too expansive. On its own website, the Workers' Party writes: ‘Increasing oil money use may increase interest rates, which would adversely affect normal families with mortgages and businesses.’ Then it would be thought that the Workers' Party also reduced the use of oil money and created a less expansive budget than the government proposes. But no, not only do they use the same amount -- they've created a more expansive budget. Now I did not agree with the Workers' Party when they brought the criticism in May, but that the Workers' Party did not agree with the Workers' Party in May is a surprise. This may indicate that the most important thing has been to promote criticism, rather than an alternative, comprehensive policy. It also shows that what was once referred to as the eagle in Norwegian policy has become a weatherman. This is not how Norway is controlled.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e137	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e142	In a debate that Højre's fiscal spokesman and I took part in the Political Quarter right after the presentation of the Granavolden platform, the representative Asheim said that granting money under the line is a smart way to finance a new government quarter and a havart frigate on. Now we've read what's coming from the government, and the report from the government, and there's something to suggest that the Right hasn't got an impact on the smart way of financing the construction of a new government quarter and a havart frigate. Wasn't it that smart anyway?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e147	I think it's important that the oil money you spend, like the Workers' Party, that takes 200 million out of the miscellaneous item in its revised budget, i.e. an increased use of oil money. What we talked about at the time, and this was the reality and is still the reality, was that the self-insurance principle is not consistent. If, for example: an accident occurs on a Norwegian oil platform, it is covered directly above the cash flow, not above the State budget. What's on the Granavolden platform is that you want to figure out how the self-insurance principle worked. So the government has landed on, and the Storting agrees, that it's better when it comes to these examples, to take it over the budget instead of looking at this change. That is what has been done, and it seems that the Labour Party agrees. It seems that we all agree, and then there's no reason to get annoyed about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e156	I then understand that the representative Asheim has not been able to use this clever way of financing construction. But then it might be interesting to hear how the representative Asheim assesses the proposal of the government colleague, the Progress Party, to use 100 billion below the line to reduce the toll. Is that smart?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e161	Now I was not a delegate to the National Assembly of the Advancement Party, nor am I a member of the Advancement Party. I don't think that's a wise way to do it, simply because if you use the argument that's been used, that's because the oil fund is going well for a quarter, you're going to take out the money, I think it's in the long run the recipe to spend too much oil money. The Labour Party knows a lot about that, they spend more oil money than any other part of this revised national budget. When we discuss this now, we're talking about how we can reduce the toll burden. The truth is that if the Workers' Party had won the election in 2013 and 2017, the toll burden would be higher than it is now. Therefore, through all budgets, this government has continuously eliminated tolls, reduced road construction costs and ensured that it also benefits the drivers. This reduces the toll burden, but taking the money out of the oil fund, I'm critical of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e166	The representative Asheim used speaking time to criticise the opposition to oil money use, when he himself represents a majority who have made a record after a record in the use of oil money. In the revised national budget coming here, there's another 7 billion, so there's 9 billion in new expenditure. This puts pressure on the rise in interest rates, and the priority that one has done is a huge tax cut for those who have the most in the past, while the consequence of other policies is record high charges and record high tolls, but also that a bill can be sent to families with young children and others with high loans. The centre party has reduced its use of oil money in its alternative budget. Why does the representative Asheim not put up and reduce the use of oil money in order to contribute to, among other things. families with children?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e173	I think it is very important to bear in mind that the rule of action is about phasing oil money into the Norwegian economy. But this government has tightened up the rule of action from 4 pst. – as it was under the red-green government – to 3 pst. Every year this government has been below the mark of 3 pst. – 2.9 pst. with the revised budget of the day. In fact, the fourth year became a negative budget impulse. So there's a tight economic policy, there's no doubt about it. My criticism was not, in fact, of the Central Party in this matter, but of the Workers' Party. I understand you're going to cooperate, it's a little unclear what you're going to cooperate on, but you're going to cooperate on something. So it wasn't an attack on the Center Party, but on the Workers' Party, because the Workers' Party went out and said that the oil money used by the government would increase interest rates – and then they used more oil money. If you think it's going to increase interest rates, it's very strange to spend more oil money, and it would be interesting to hear what the Central Party thinks about the alternative budget that the Workers' Party has put forward, which is thus increasing the expansion of the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e180	It is good to hear that the representative Asheim in his post places emphasis on conversion. For those of us who have been concerned for a long time about the economy following the need for change, it is good to see that more people are coming on the road, and what is needed to get the transition going properly is more knowledge of what measures are needed. A NOW that I'm very happy with, is the one that's about climate risk, and in proposal no. 10 we propose that climate risk should also receive its own forecasting message, so that we can better initiate action to follow up the situation we are in. Why is this proposal not on the right?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e188	To be completely honest, I think we have to get away from the fact that the only blessing in the world is a new big message. I think what you need is action, and when you look at the climate challenge, we're constantly working to convert Norway. I also mentioned several of the measures we have to invest in green technology. We can get a vast range of large-scale reports on different challenges for Norway. I think that those challenges are very clear to us in terms of both climate, that is, how serious the potential crisis can be, and what we need to do to prevent this. That's why I talk so much about migration, because some of the things that characterize Norway are not rigid and tight and locked into big documents, but a country – not just politicians, but a country – that changes, invests in new technology, makes sure that jobs come where it's most profitable. The reason for that is simply that I don't think the first thing we need right now is a new big message. I think we need action, and that's why I'm very happy that we have a government that provides for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e195	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e200	First of all, I would also like to thank the Committee on Cooperation in the preparation of the vote. We are now revising a budget that the Labour Party felt was not addressing the right challenges. Differences are increasing, and even if unemployment is falling, there are still about 100,000 unemployed. The employment rate is slightly increasing, but remains low — neighbouring countries are doing better — and oil dependence has increased. And in the revision, actions using more oil money are financed once again. The Workers' Party and I were not alone to be surprised when the key figures showed a very eager use of oil money. Many economists were too. The budget pulse was at 0.5. The government pushed the bill over to the young people, it was said, and that's true. Young owners of housing will probably notice the interest rate increases well on the wallet. The government has two conflicting messages. The parties say that the Norwegian economy is doing well, but the budget is increasing the use of oil money. The explanation of why the use of oil money is increasing is not related. The loss of allowance income is of approximately SEK 2.6 billion. kr. The loss of minor revenues from the one-off and VAT taxes on cars amounts to some tens of millions. There is no need for nearly 7 billion fresh crowns of oil. In other words, the increase is a fact. Normally, oil money use is an instrument that is used when things don't go so well, and maybe not everything is as pink as the government is supposed to have. What do they know, that they don't tell us? Is the impact on the Norwegian economy of the trade conflict between the United States and China greater than the government likes to tell us? Will weaker growth prospects affect us internationally more than they like to admit? Are they afraid of the effects of petroleum investment, which will fall away next year? Has the probability of a bubble increased in the housing market? Or is it simply proof that the government does not have the ability to give priority? If the party numbers give a true picture, the government would have held back now. Lack of consistency between words and actions gives cause for concern. The Labour Party believes that any government budget must be set up in the future to strengthen the welfare state and ensure its sustainability. Then we have to think smarter, and we have to budget smarter. We will in the long term face a saving need in the budgets of more than 5 pst. "by the mainland economy," says the government. That's a lot, it's actually as much as the oil investment contribution to the mainland economy last year. It is then necessary to convert more into Norwegian industry. Here we believe that the RNB fails. There are few, if any, tracks that contribute to the conversion we know need to come. This is why we are increasing efforts for new environmental technologies and allocating more capital that can be used by county municipalities in the districts. We are betting on the coast, with funds for transporting goods from road to sea and renewing the ship's fleet, and we are increasing the investment by means of the bioeconomy system. We need to get more people to work and make sure that those who want to work more can get a job. When about 100,000 Nordics look for jobs, and 64,000 want to work more, we need to pay more attention to getting more people working, and it's urgent. Because it's not just smart for government finances, it's smart for the individual as well. Having a regular job, with a decent salary, provides security through income, and it creates a sense of belonging to having a job to go to. Therefore, the Workers' Party will have a full-time commitment in the care sector. We continue the fight against crime at work and social dumping. Reducing differences between people is also a smart fiscal policy. It's using the precious resources we have, people. We focus more on the kids, on more teachers, on free SFOs for first class and on school food, because we know that it facilitates equal opportunities from the start. It's investment for the future, it's smart use of money. I'm addressing the suggestions the Workers' Party is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e244	The representative, Rigmor Aasrud, has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e251	The representative Aasrud went on to say that the oil money usage that the government puts up will increase interest rates. Now the confusion begins to become total. First of all, it is that – and this also says Professor Ragnar Torvik in Business Today – it is likely that the budget of the Workers' Party is actually more expansive than that of the government. In response to this, Rigmor Aasrud's party leader, Jonas Gahr Støre, in today's business, answers that it is the government that sets the chalk line, those who have an overview and define the space of action, and that it is natural that the Workers' Party should set itself at the same level. So the representative Rigmor Aasrud now says that the oil money usage is going to increase interest rates. But if, in the view of the representative, the use of oil money increases interest rates and she proposes to use more, does the representative Aasrud and the Labour Party propose to adopt a revised budget which will increase interest rates in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e258	First of all, I'm not the one who said that interest rates were going to increase. It was leading economists when the budget was presented. That's what I referred to, and I think we should take it seriously. So, for oil money use and the use of the miscellaneous item. Here we have learned well, because once we have gone through the similarities from 2014 until today, the government parties have spent over 2 billion. kr from the stock item in its settlements. That means that representatives of the government parties in this room have increased the use of oil money a lot more than they like to talk about when we see this in a whole. The 200 million that we spend from the stock market now are, of course, good within the budget budget today. There's actually no use of anything. And so we spend the money on conversion in Norwegian business, getting more people into work, getting more opportunities to switch from oil industry to green industries. I would have thought that representatives from the government parties too would have seemed reasonable in the situation we are in in Norway today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e265	I have had fun going through some old readings and interviews with the former financial politicians of the Workers' Party. In particular, Marianne Marthinsen was very clear during the previous period both in the ordinary budget and in the context of the revised budget. What all these fiscal politicians were very clear on – in part shocked and indignant – was that the government parties had to resort to the cross-section to make the budgets go up. We in the Progress Party believe that we can use a little more of our common financial assets to invest in our own country. The Workers' Party has been deeply divided in words. Now, however, we see a completely different practice from the Workers' Party. The representative, Aasrud, is on the balance of his budget by 200 million. kr extra oil money over the miscellaneous item. The representative Marthinsen and others thought was completely unrealistic budgeting a few years ago, with Aasrud and Støre suddenly becoming realistic budgeting. How can that be?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e270	So if the representative Bjørnstad listened to what I said, we have learned well. The government has spent two billion. to balance their budgets over the last few years. Then we've been under the oil money mill. If we bring together the appropriations that have been made, at least the government parties have contributed well. We think it's right now, just to contribute to the green transition that we have to get into, where we see that the government parties don't take the necessary steps. When we then see that the settlements that are usually charged to the item have now gone reasonably well, we believe it is good within the use of the 200 million kroner now.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e275	When the revised national budget was presented, there was no way of how wrong the Workers' Party thought it would go as a result of the government's use of money. Now the fasitite has been presented, and the Workers' Party spends more money than the government parties, which they themselves warned against. To everything, they're balancing their alternative budget with what someone would call air money. Extensive cuts in the use of consultants and the removal of the 350-kroner limit on duty-free imports without a proper prior consultation process may be among the less serious proposals. My question to the representative of Aasrud is: why does the Labour Party no longer find it necessary to present realistic and responsible budget proposals in the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e282	I totally disagree with Mr Raja, who says that we are not presenting responsible budget proposals. What I'm really surprised about is that the government has spent many years seeing that the 350-kroner limit is a barrier to Norwegian business. It does not create Norwegian jobs, and it contributes to many shops in Norway having major problems. We lose opportunities for value creation in Norway. That is why we believe that a government that opted for enforcement should be able to remove the 350-kroner limit faster than you do. When six months are also spent on the preparation of a consultation note, where it is written that the government has not even taken a stand on the specific proposal, you can wonder if you really want to make these changes that will create incomes and jobs in Norway. We focus on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e287	Like Sivert Bjørnstad, I have had fun reading the speeches of former fiscal figures in the Labour Party. It was in a previous post from the representative of Aasrud, from when we had a debate on the government statement, that she said that we have a government that has seen a Norwegian record of using oil money. In that case, it is a record that has stood until today, when the Labour Party presented its draft budget. With the budget proposals now being presented, we have a budget revised, with the government giving priority to strengthening the family economy, prioritizing more teachers and introducing a learning norm. So the Labour Party is here in the debate and criticises the increase in the use of oil money while at the same time having a greater use of oil money, and then in the debate to say that the Labour Party is taking a serious increase in the use of oil money. Then I would like to ask the representative of Aasrud: where is the seriousness of the matter, and where are the priorities of the Labour Party's proposal for a revised national budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e297	The seriousness of the budget we have presented is that there is reason to believe that the Norwegian economy is not as good as the government says. There's a lot of cuts in the sea, and then it might make sense to spend 200 million. kr from the miscellaneous item, which the government has previously used to balance its budgetary settlements. They've spent up to 2 billion. more over the last few years by drawing funds from the external post to create more jobs. I think the government should have focused more on that. I have also recorded that the government parties have had to make changes here in the main hall of the budget submitted by the government. It is difficult to see that funding for very many individual organisations in Norway is a good contribution to increasing employment, creating more jobs and increasing value creation in Norway. At least there is no trace of what is absolutely necessary – that we are transforming the Norwegian economy into more green industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e304	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e309	We are in a good economic period in Norway. The fact that the interest rate was recently set up is really a good sign, even though the headlines are often about how much more expensive our loans are going to be. There is often a sign that more and more people are coming to work, employment is increasing – four out of five new employees are coming in the private sector – wages are increasing more than in previous years, growth is solid, and businesses are investing more. Public spending on transport, education, research and development, police, defence and the weakest among us continues. In this revised budget, the majority parties are relying on measures that safeguard Norway and its inhabitants. The police have been significantly strengthened in the last six years. Today there are about 1,650 more policemen than in 2013. Every police district has been strengthened in recent years, both in terms of number of posts and in terms of appropriations. We are now in the midst of a demanding but absolutely necessary police reform, a reform that will provide better police and where we will get more police out of every penny we grant. But it takes time to get all the results, like all the reforms. That is why we propose not to take advantage of this year, so that the police districts will have more than 50 million. kr extra this year. In addition, we're proposing that it be set at 100 million. kr to a police equipment spot. Should the police be as operational as we want it to be, they have to get around. A revised budget is precisely that – the main objective is to revise a previously adopted budget and to take into account unforeseen events since the last decision. Late last year, the frigate KNM “Helge Ingstad” is listed. After the incident, securing, raising and transport of the vessel has been carried out. In order to cover the additional costs for these purposes, nearly 500 million are granted. NOK to this. This means that we can also afford to double the crew at KNM ‘Maud’ so that they can sail more. These are important measures to maintain sovereignty in Norwegian waters. For us in the Progress Party, the elderly are an important resource for society. We need respect for the elderly. In that respect, too, all those in need of care must be confident that they will receive a good and worthwhile offer when they need it. We in the state have to set up with what we can, the municipalities have to do the same thing. In this budget, we propose to provide 900 more and better places of care for the day. With this effort, through all our budgets, we have made it possible to build and modernise a record number of lucky days care places. In the years 2014–2019, we have provided 15 500 seats within a total framework of well 25 billion. kr. In comparison, between 2008 and 2013 approximately 7.6 billion were set aside. NOK 11000 for more than 11000 places. Where the red-green parties speak, we act. We have also found room to make some minor changes to the tax regime. In recent years, small breweries have become a very important district industry around Norway. In the past, this was largely just a reintroduction, but now more and more of its products live – products that otherwise hold high quality, I have heard. Last year, a tax relief was adopted for beer from small breweries. Now we're expanding this to also apply to sides and mead. It may not be the biggest thing in the world, but it at least ensures that like goods are treated equally for tax purposes. Hopefully, this will stimulate increased diversity and local brewing. The government is also following up the Granavolden platform and removing a one-off charge for a vehicle over 20 years. It's a handshake for everyone interested in the car. The one-off charge for motorcycles is also reduced by an average of 10 pst. And we've also reduced this one in the past. Some models are now over $50,000 cheaper than they were in 2013. The most eye-catching thing about today's debate and the alternatives we're discussing is that the Workers' Party, which has criticised the government for high oil spending, has finally been revealed. Today they put on the table a proposal that will increase the oil money consumption by about 200 million. kr. In May, 6.9 billion additional oil crowns from the government would increase interest rates. In June, 7.1 billion additional oil crowns from the Workers' Party will not increase interest rates. Understand who can – I can't do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e326	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e331	I understand that the tactics of the government parties in this revised debate are to rename funds from the various items to oil money. So based on what the representatives Sivert Bjørnstad and Henrik Asheim said in their posts and in their reply: if it means that when the wage settlement in the country and the agricultural settlement are covered by funds from the miscellaneous item, these funds are added to the 6.9 billion. Is the government withdrawing the oil money from the revised budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e336	In that case, the criticism of the representative Rigmor Aasrud in the previous line change has fallen on stone floor, for Rigmor Aasrud mentioned that the 2 billion. the government has used over the miscellaneous item, which has just increased the use of oil money. That's what I'm dealing with. This is not about tactics, it is about the Workers' Party balancing its budget with increased oil money usage. On 14 May, when the revised budget was presented, they went out and said that oil money consumption is going to increase interest rates, and then – a little month later – an alternative with even more oil money is being provided. How this should not increase interest rates, I cannot understand. This is not tactic, this is just to show how to actually balance your budgets. In government, majority parties, proposals are related to revenue and expenditure. It's not in the Workers' Party's arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e343	It's a little surprising that you don't understand how to dispose of the item, not how much oil money you spend. But I have another question. In the Granavolden Declaration, the government said it would consider covering the costs of new government buildings and frigates, below the line. It has been assessed and, fortunately, deleted. The representative Asheim said it wouldn't be so smart to take 100 billion. kr from the oil fund, i.e. below the line, to cover tolls. Does the Political Affairs Committee agree with this assessment?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e350	What the government said in the Granavolden platform was that an assessment of the self-insurance principle should be made, and the government has done so. We have provided the answer in this revised budget, and we have come to the conclusion that the most appropriate way is to do it the way you do it today, that it is the self-insurance principle that applies. So I also said in the last line change that the Progress Party believes that we can use something more of our common financial fortune to invest in Norway – in roads, in railways, in university buildings and other important infrastructure. We mean that, but unfortunately we're all alone to mean it. The same applies to the fact that oil money could have been used to cancel debts. More economists, including: Dørum, has said that it affects the economy to a small extent, because debt forgiveness is not putting pressure on the Norwegian economy. So we believe that you could have spent a little more money in your own country, but we're alone talking about that, and the Workers' Party unfortunately doesn't mean it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e357	The representative, Mr Bjørnstad, used a large part of his contribution to refer to some of the tax concessions contained in the revised national budget. They are important enough, and we support the proposals that are contained there, but it will be small in the broad context when the government that is sitting places a record on the record in fees. 5.4 B.C.E. kr is the increase in taxes with the current government. There have been record high taxes on fuel, on public transport and on electricity. On the electricity charge alone, one with a sitting government has taken in approx. 9 B.C.E. Extra kroner. On top of that, a revised budget uses the fact that one has had record power prices, to collect over 1 billion. kr extra in dividends from Statkraft. The centre batch proposes to return it to the power customers through a reduced electricity charge. Why does one from the government want to charge more and more charges while a shoe is at high power prices?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e366	There was a lot to do here. The overall picture is that in the last six years, the government parties, the majority parties, have reduced the total tax and tax burden by about 25 billion. kr. It is in stark contrast to what the Center Party was able to deliver the last time they joined the government. It is also in stark contrast to what the Senterpartiet does in its alternative state budget, which in total increases the taxes and charges for people the most. In total, the fees and taxes for people increase most with the Central Party budget. In the budget we adopted in December, we are reducing the electricity charge for this year. The last Senterpartie did when they put in government, in 2013, was to send a fee increase to the Norwegian people through an increased electricity charge. So there's a big difference between life and learning in what the Center Party does in position, and what you do in opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e373	With this government there have become many more poor, and the government systematically pushes sick and unemployed into poverty. Only in 2018, there were 3,100 more on social assistance because of the cuts in the AAP, and this year there are many more. Only from Christmas until now, there are 3,100 who lose their living quarters with this government. To push people out of secure benefits and into temporary social assistance where they have to sell their values is to give up people. Just ask them. They get it hard and don't get to work. SV wants no one to lose the right to the AAP until they have completed their job or social security. Why doesn't the Progress Party agree that that's the right way to do this?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e383	The simple answer to that is that you saw over time that too many too long were inside the AAP, that you were locked in that arrangement and did not get any further. It's unfortunate for the big community, of course, but it's also unfortunate for the individual. That's not what Karin Andersen and SV often say, that government budgets are budgets without social measures. It's completely wrong. Now in the revised national budget, we are providing 300 more VTA sites, we are expanding the care system, we are increasing the allocation of activity aids to people over 26 years of age, 900 more and better lucky day care facilities, four new health care packages and 50 million. kr extra to broadband in the districts – according to the Workers' Party, it reduces the inequalities, so in that case it is good that the majority allocates more money. It's not right, as SV and Karin Andersen say, that the government doesn't give priority to the weakest. That's exactly what we're doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e392	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e397	Norway is a rich country with enormous opportunities. It gives us a space for action that other countries can only dream of in their state budgets. It also gives us a great responsibility to shape a policy wisely that takes care of our country, and our whole country, in a good way. It is that it is possible to live, work and live good lives throughout Norway, that one should see every citizen, every single community in the countryside and city, and develop a policy that facilitates the provision of services close to people throughout Norway, facilitates the organisation of working conditions, and facilitates an active and autonomous industrial policy, that we take care of Norwegian interests and jobs, that we ensure preparedness throughout Norway, and that we provide a policy that reduces the differences between people – both the differences between those who are rich and those who are demanding in Norwegian society, and that we reduce the differences between people in different parts of the country. The Central Party has an alternatively revised national budget that wants to strengthen the services we have throughout the country in important areas. After six years with today's government, with centralization, with closure, there is a need to go the other way. Within the police there is a need to strengthen the local offer that you have, the local presence. It doesn't help to stand in this room and talk about macros. What people are busy about is that the police come when you need help. What people are concerned about is that an ambulance is ready when you need it, no matter where you are in Norway. And what is important for people's security and security is that we have a defense that is present. That is why we also want to strengthen the army and the protection of homes in our budget. So far in this debate there has been some attention to the use of oil money. I also think it has a certain edge of unworthiness when the country's two largest parties use speaking time to chat with each other and are on the same record high oil money usage. There are people who have to bear the responsibility in the end if we, as politicians, are not able to give priority. With today's government, therefore, an increase in the use of oil money by approx. 100 B.C.E. kr in total, and in the revised budget a further 7 billion. kr at the top of what was already in the past. The tax havens of those who have the most of them in the world can protect them. They're still being taken care of. But for ordinary people, there have been record high charges, there have been record high tolls, and in addition, there is also a risk of an extra charge when the pressure on interest rates to go up increases. There is a need to move in and make priorities. It does the Center Party, also through targeted cuts, among other things. in state bureaucracy, and it would be wise for one for the future to ensure that we get a policy that we actually prioritize. Sooner or later you have to do it. In the case of the party to which the government of today has put up, with an ever-increasing use of oil money: sooner or later it will fall to the ground, and someone will have to pay the bill. Already many in Norwegian society pay a bill for the tax cuts to the richest through record high taxes and record high tolls. But that bill can increase further over time. And to the fees that were mentioned here instead, and to the representative Bjørnstad of the Progress Party who had a visit to the previous government: In the case of the electricity charge, it is over 36 pst. higher today than when we had a red-green government. Therefore, there is a need to reduce the electricity charge and pay money back to the Norwegian people. With that, I would also like to address the remaining proposals of the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e416	The representative of Sigbjørn Gülsvik has addressed the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e423	The Norwegian economy is going well. It's growth all over the country. Unemployment is the lowest in ten years; 30 out of 30 municipalities with the highest growth in employment in the last year are typical district municipalities. The status of Tøndelag is increased investment in agriculture, full speed at Kværner Verdal, in the aquaculture industry and in the mineral industry, and new large industrialisation of biogas production in Forests. Forestry has not had better results since 1999. Norwegian Forest in Forest, Moelven Van Severen in Namsos and several others go too full. This stands in contrast to the fact that the Senterpartet was in the government at the last time. At that time, there was a crisis in the forest industry, and the important forest industry, such as the forest industry. Tofte, was laid down. District Norway then complained about lying in the oil shadow. Can the representative Gülsvik be sure how more jobs will be created in the districts by the fact that the Central Party on the Stortinget cooperates with parties such as SV, the Green and Red Environmental Party, which will, after all, greatly increase taxes, restrict the oil industry, the mineral industry and the aquaculture industry and increase agricultural levies?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e430	When the Centerpartiet was last in government, the fees were 5.4 billion. kr less than they are per day. Today’s government has provided tax shocks after tax shocks, which have also affected important jobs in districts. It concerns the brewing industry and travel life. Electricity and fuel costs are also increased, and there is an air passenger charge. Fortunately, many industries in Norway are doing well by having active people who help to do a job and create jobs. But the question is what the government is doing through its policy, and it is a conscious centralisation — the closure of well-functioning offers, which weakens the possibility that we may have this development in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e437	Those of us around the country who live on the farm are worried. We see crops disappear in enormous amounts of rainfall. Last year we saw crops dry out, we saw huge forest areas burning down. The Youth of the Center Party tried to lower its foot at the national meeting of the Center Party. The woods have tried to put their feet down. The Landelag and the Lande- and Smålägerlag have signed a climate agreement with the State. The centre part, on the other hand, sits quietly in the boat. In fact, the Centre Party opposed the climate agreement with the EU in this Chamber just two days ago. Girlsvik did not mention climate in one word in his post, not in one word. When is the Center Party going to start caring about the climate?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e444	It was very wise for the Centre Party to oppose that agreement, precisely in the interests of Norwegian jobs and in the interests of the ability to contribute to the climate. So the government has not made it clear what kind of opportunities Norway will have to abate forests in Norway in the future. At the same time, one ensures an agreement with the EU where one places power over Norwegian forest policy in the hands of the EU – particularly unwise. We should cooperate with other countries on climate objectives, but we must ensure that national councils have the right to implement the policy that is wise so that we can contribute to jobs, so that we can contribute to increased logging in the forest, and so that we can help solve the climate challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e449	The representative, Gülsvik, said from the pulpit that someone had to pay for the party with increased oil money usage. Yes, someone has to pay for creative bookkeeping as well. I have to ask the representative, Gülsvik, who expects the Center Party to save $1 billion. kr by cutting the 350-kroner limit from 1 August, which is impossible – that is not physically possible: No one else has been able to see the possibility of saving so much money. Oslo Economics has been on the other side of 2 billion. kr, Menon has counted 4.6 billion. kr., while the centre party expects to have to sell goods for 16 billion. kr to do this. Who's the Center Party's creative accountant, capable of finding 1 billion? kr of something that is imagination and impossibility?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e456	It is a great pity that the 350-kroner limit has not been closed long ago, because it is a limit that affects Norwegian jobs and has meant that we have reduced income to the Norwegian state. There's a good and wise way to do this. We already have a bill of over 350 kroner, and there are two alternatives that can happen when one removes the 350 kroner limit. One is that people still buy these packages from abroad with VAT. In that case, Norway will receive the VAT revenue calculated on the part of the Centre Party. The second option is that it contributes to fewer packages from abroad, more jobs in Norway, Work has estimated 6 000 jobs, and increased tax revenues to the country. It is a wise policy that will strengthen Norway and contribute to more revenue to the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e461	Of course, the government parties are busy with services close to people. We are also engaged in an export-oriented industry and that it will survive. After all, the centre party has ideological opposition to international cooperation through the EEA Agreement. So strong is the resistance that the party finances a lot of its RNB appropriations by not paying funds that Norway is obliged to pay to be part of the commercial community, on which the districts are just totally dependent. How will the Central Party explain to its voters as jobs in district industries that will be abandoned as a result of the irresponsible desire of the party to copy the chaos brexit that has developed into Norway, that, unfortunately, in the districts, they will lose their job in order to satisfy the ideological dreams of the Central Party about a world where each country is self enough?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e467	The centre party is very concerned about the provision of industries in Norway, as opposed to today’s government, which provides for the introduction of a historical ban on nutrition. We have been dealing with the outside world long before we got the EEA Agreement. In approx. So 15 years before we got the EEA Agreement, since the end of the 1970s, we had duty-free exports on all exports to the EU market. The EU needs important products on which we are high on exports from Norway — oil, gas and fish — in addition to the fact that the EU itself has a surplus in its trade with Norway in the field of services and has an interest in trading with Norway. We will have good trade relations with the EU in the future, but we must be able to combine having good trade relations with the EU with having an agreement that takes care of our democracy, not an agreement where the EU rules over Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e474	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e479	Anyone who saw Tottenham get the finals in the Champions League by beating Ajax in the 96th minute knows that it's possible to win a big game even if you're long overtime. It is good to know when so much is at stake in a decisive fight against extreme weather, natural disasters, dangerous climate imbalances and the eradication of animals, plants and insects. We have several times had the chance to go into an early management, the chance to make green investments, the chance to protect nature, and to facilitate climate-friendly agriculture and food production and a colossal focus on transforming the industry, but the ball ends on the side of the goal because we think about other things when we shoot. What are we thinking about that is more important than saving the world? It would be understandable if we were to be disturbed by increasing differences in power and wealth, because it's really a crisis in itself. In 2018, there were two records set here to land. One was a record in most billionaires in Norway, while the other was a record in most children growing up in poor families in Norway. It is a belly pad, and we who adopt the budgets must have higher ambitions on behalf of Norway. We have to have ambitions to actually manage to distribute our money in a fair way, and that ensures that all children can afford to go to football training if they want to, that all young people can afford to move out of home when that time comes, and that adults don't have to choose between buying winter shoes or going to the dentist because they can afford only one of the parts. It's more important than those who already have a lot of money to get even more. Now this is a revision of the state budget, and not a place for the overall priorities. In SV we have made our proposals based on the space of action that has been added up, and when we can't move around on all the money, we start with what's most urgent, and that's the climate issue. I agree with what Mr Asheim said earlier in the debate, that there should be no need for investigations and reports and text on climate, that the best thing is just to run out of action, so if the government had done so, we would not have suggested our own big message on climate risk. One of Norway’s real opportunities to contribute to climate change is to stop travelling in ways that pollute so much. New E18 between Lysaker and Ramstadsletta becomes a sample path that brings with it mass queue, mass emissions, mass harmful air and mass waste of 180 million. kr. We suggest that we use the national highways to secure the money. When we're going to spend the money on the road, that money should go to make sure that you can drive on safe roads all over the country, not that you can drive fast on routes where you should have taken the train. The train should be easier to choose from in front of the car or to fly more spaces. It's urgent to change our travel habits, and people have understood that. The government still has a little bit to go on, but most people realize that trains are the best option of e.g. Copenhagen, and they want the opportunity to travel there by night train. It proposes the use of funds in the revised state budget. We also propose that efforts be increased to get the speedboats emission-free. There are some climate measures that cost money, and then there are other climate measures that give us money. We propose to tighten the highest possible weight discount for chargeable hybrid cars from 23 to 20 pst. and increase the mileage from 50 km to 75 km from 1 August. This means that the cars have to be more environmentally friendly before they are tax-free. It's sending us even further in the direction of electrification of traffic, and we need it when we're going into a green and fair future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e496	Would the representative like to comment on the SV's proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e501	Yes, I will.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e506	The representative, Solvency Skaughty Foss, then mentioned the proposals she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e513	If we are to continue to be the world's best country to live in, it is essential that we continue to strengthen the welfare community. We have to change, more people have to work, more people have to create jobs, and more people have to be trained. We just have to create before we can share. SV promises six hours of work so that we can work less and thus perhaps contribute less to the community. SV will introduce full-time schooling, free school food, increase assistance – the list is long – and the representative was himself in many proposals. At the same time, SV is in favour of hundreds of billions of well-being as they go towards the development of new oil and gas fields. Then my question to the representative is, how is this going to go up?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e520	As I said, I have bigger ambitions on behalf of Norway than we're going to continue running the same line that has led us into a major climate crisis. I want, as the representative was in the house, a working life where everyone gets the chance to work six hours a day. Nothing suggests that efficiency and production will go down, but just make us get more time for each other. The whole day school will make the kids learn in a better and more pleasant way. Of course, we will not continue to expand a sector that makes the world stand in a major crisis, where species die out, and where greenhouse gas emissions increase so much that we no longer have a safe and secure future. We in SV would rather go into green, new industries than continue on a path that doesn't go any further.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e527	Today's government has given ordinary families a tax bill of NOK 11 000 a year. When SV talks, this sounds almost like no world thing. SV even spent eight years in government, and then I wonder: Why would SV not reduce the tax on ordinary people when they themselves were in government?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e532	We need tax finance to get to the green shift as desperately as we need, and we need tax finance to get to the welfare schemes that our citizens deserve. SV will solve it by taxing those who earn the most from before. Like the representative, we agree that most people should not take the heavy tax burden. In fact, SV will give tax relief to anyone who earns less than NOK 600,000, and we would like to hear more about that. When we need money to the welfare state and taxes that contribute to social cohesion and hit precisely, it's best to tax those who earn the most from before. I hope we can agree on that in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e537	It was also my question, that we had to give tax credits to most people. My question went to SV, and the representative agrees with the policy of the Progress Party. When SV was in government and had the opportunity to give tax credits to most people, why wouldn't SV work for it?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e549	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e554	The government's proposal for a revised national budget and the handling of the matter by the Storting show above all that we can be happy that we live in a country where things are going well. We can be happy that we are politicians in a country where people have jobs to go to, where business flourishes, and where tax revenue allows us to maintain a very high level of well-being. The state budget for 2019 was the first left to make from the bottom of government. It was clear, among other things: through increased commitment to climate and environment, both nationally and internationally, a significant and targeted effort to combat poverty, specifically targeting children in low-income families, and through our commitment to school, with special emphasis on early efforts and competent teachers. It is also worth mentioning that we accept a record high number of quota refugees in 2019, and have an aid budget that really takes our international responsibility for helping people and countries in need seriously. The government's draft revised budget shows that Norway is doing well. Unemployment falls all over the country, and the economy is growing. It is particularly gratifying that unemployment has fallen in the most severely affected regions since 2014 and that the regional disparities have thus decreased. In the revised national budget, government strengthens its commitment to climate and environment. It is set, for example: of 150 million. NOK 60 million for the pre-projection of a full-scale CO 2 handling. kr to a new aid scheme to transfer goods to the railway and the investment company Nysnø receives 100 million. kr in increased equity for investment in climate-friendly technology. In addition, the rate of zero emission solutions for commercial and heavy transport is reinforced by 50 million. kr. It is absolutely essential that we cut our emissions in all parts of society, and the government's proposal for a revised budget contributes precisely to that effort. This appropriation is intended, inter alia, to: Twenty-five million. kr to zero and low-emission solutions on county speedboat connections, which will contribute to less pollution in Norwegian fjords. In the autumn of 2020, new curricula will be introduced at school. If we're going to achieve the goals of students learning more and better, and having educational tools adapted to the new curricula, we need to start now. The government therefore grants approximately 74 million. to ensure the faster development of learning materials and the strengthening of digital learning materials. The government proposes it, and we're going to adopt it on the Storting. In addition, the government proposes to set up 100 new study places and set up 10 million. kr for recruitment to primary school teacher training. Giving all children a good school that gives them the opportunity to succeed in life is one of the most important things we can do for the future. That's why it's important that we start preparing the schools for the new curricula right now. We need a lot of good teachers in the years to come, so the focus on teacher training must continue in the years to come. The government is also proposing to introduce free core time into kindergarten for one-year-olds in asylum recipients at home – it has been an important issue for the Left – and we are strengthening the work against violence against girls out there by 44 million. D through re-prioritisation of the aid budget. In addition, housing aid and housing allowance for disadvantaged families are increased by a total of 183 million. kr. These are important measures for this government. Another important breakthrough for the Left is that the sick pay for the self-employed is increased from 75 pst. to 80 pst. It will lower the risk for those starting new own businesses and, hopefully, help more people dare to invest in entirely new projects. We will also contribute to the development of good local settings across the country. This is why, among other things: of 50 million. kr for broadband development – an important regional policy measure – and 105 million. kr for VAT compensation for sports facilities. Child protection is strengthened by a total of 250 million. kr. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have jointly found room for some re-priorities in the revised budget, when the opportunity came. It's natural enough for smaller sums, as we agree with the government, but when it turns out that there is room to make some changes because some sums will not be used in the way the government thought, it has been important for us to give priority to some important issues. I want to draw out, for example. Legs against nuclear weapons, which we – despite some confusion – insist on getting their 2 million. kr in State aid in 2019. It also applies to popular events such as Exstremsportveko at Voss and Mostratinget, organized by the Bømlo Theatre at the Millennial Jubilee, which needed some funds to plan for it. We have also agreed to grant some funds to United World College in Fjaler, otherwise a fantastic school, and I think the principal is visiting the Stortinget today. We support the establishment of the Fjordane Virtual Campus with 2 million. kr. I would also like to present Caritas in Oslo, Barna's City Museum in Mid-Troms, the Falstad Centre in Nord-Trøndelag, the pre-projecting of a brown bee centre, etc. These are good actions we've found room for priority, and I don't think the representative Aasrud in the line change meant to talk down these projects when she said we're giving a lot of money to various organizations and associations. It might sound like you tried to talk them down, but I think everyone will agree that these are good projects, and will be happy that the government parties have managed to find room for this. In recent years, there has been a good development in the Norwegian economy. The government has retained the expenditure on the State budget to facilitate growth and job creation in business. Overall, fiscal policies have been neutralising the activity of the economy in recent years. This also applies to 2018 and 2019 when we see these two years together. The Norwegian economy is on its way into a boom, and we need ten years back to find just as strong investment in mainland companies as we are now. It strengthens the sustainability of our welfare society. Only in the last three years have there been some 95 000 more persons employed. In the last year, three out of four jobs have been created in the private sector, and the registered unemployment rate has not been lower in 10 years. It promises very well for the future in Norway and shows that the government took important and necessary action when we were in a vulnerable situation. We can inform you that we are looking in particular at one proposal, which is about football World Cup on TV – I think it is proposal No. Thirty-five. During the debate, we hope to get back to that proposal in an appropriate way. Finally, I would like to thank all the good colleagues in the Financial Committee from both the position and the opposition, and not least the government for a good cooperation on the revised budget. Now the Storting what I see the media call summer vacation for three months, but I think all of us who are here in the hall, know that it's going to be election fighting from morning to evening all over the country, and maybe especially in the states we're elected from. I would also like to take the opportunity to wish us luck in the election campaign. As national politicians, we may have to bear in mind in particular that the focus is on local politicians. Those who pursue leisure policies to create better communities all over the country deserve both our tribute and our respect. I hope the Stortinget will agree with the desire for less heat from local politicians in the future. The kind of development we've seen lately is undermining democracy. Even I am of course happy to travel around to cheer on the left-wing people who make elections in the city and the village. I look forward to many good debates and conversations with the voters, and not least you who are here in the Chamber, in the weeks and months ahead of the elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e595	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e600	There has long been cross-political agreement that it is a goal to move goods from road to sea. It is also a good Norwegian tradition to want a stable business environment. In my last contact with the business community and their organisations, there is a concern that the government is unpredictable. They change framework conditions on short notice. In 2017, we got an arrangement from the government where the business community could seek support to move goods from road to sea. In the RNB in 2019 – and note: in the revised budget – this mechanism is removed without any prior notice. And business asks, where did it go, what happened, why did this happen? Municipalities and regions that work to reduce the number of road trains on their roads and create a good environment for those who live there ask. Climate emissions are not going down exactly, the SSB has just said that they are going up. Is it no longer a measure of the Left in government to move goods from road to sea?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e605	Yes – I had the pleasure of being part of the design of the National Transport Plan, and all four of the parties that are now in government agree that we want to move as many goods as possible away from the road and over to the keel and on the track. Developments over time – over a long time, even before this government joined – have unfortunately gone in the wrong direction. So the government has launched a series of measures to remedy it, including: we've looked at how to move more goods onto the keel. In this revised national budget for 2019, the government is proposing 60 million in concrete terms. kr to an aid scheme for the transfer of goods to the railway. It's meant to be a temporary arrangement for up to three years, and we hope that it can help reverse some of the developments. But I agree with the representative that we need to do more to move more goods away from the road and over to the cold and on the track, and we hope that we will deliver more policy on this in the budgets ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e610	I notice that you have now gone from road to keel to road to track. I am very pleased with the way to the track, the Workers' Party also maintains the way to the cold in its proposal. We have a proud justice system in our country, but there are some things going the wrong way. The ABE cuts don't fit very well where you don't have unnecessary bureaucracy, where there are just people, and you have to cut down when you get ABE cuts. There's cows in our courthouse. People are waiting for their decisions. Punishment discounts are given to many, increasingly because things get old. It is a selection that looks at the legal structure and that will later look at tasks and quality – a little backwards, it actually reminds me a little of the regional reform. The court administration says every year what they need to maintain our important justice, but they don't get it from the government. But the Workers' Party is adding more, also in revised form. What does it mean for most people, in the opinion of the representative, when the courts find that they are not able to solve their tasks?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e619	I would first like to express my disagreement that we do not have a good justice and justice system in Norway, even under this government. We have a fairly predictable and legal system in Norway, so I don't think we should say that under different governments there is a need to weaken the legal security of people, etc. On the contrary, under this government we have strengthened the police, we have strengthened the prison system, we have reduced prison queues, and we have also strengthened the courts – only now in the revised budget we are also spending 5 million. to the courts in order to strengthen digitisation in this area. I think one should be able to assume that this government is doing a tremendous amount in the justice sector to improve exactly legal certainty. With regard to the ABE reform, it is important that we make some efficiency cuts. I think there are opportunities to improve the use of government money as well – private individuals are constantly making some improvements. And we who spend public money also have to ask ourselves the question of how we can use them as efficiently as possible, and there's always room for improvement. That is why I believe the ABE reform is an important reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e626	The representative Raja expresses both a desire to prioritize railways higher and lower roads through insertion and replication. Many places in Norway are the only option, and there is a need to strengthen the road network, not least on very many roads, which are worn out. But in the most populous areas, in many contexts, it is important to make the priority proposed by the representative Raja. In the revised budget, there is a specific case relating to the E18 West Corridor, where the Central Party proposes that a review of the costs of the project be carried out with a view to a substantial cost reduction, including to reduce tolls. There is a great deal of concern in the region that this route can both lead to increased traffic towards Oslo, increased emissions and also increased tolls at the top of what is today. Will the representative Raja and the Left vote in favour of the proposal of the Central Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e635	This town boy has a warm heart for the districts as well. Recently I visited Askvoll, Fjaler, Stryn and Nordfjordeid. In that district there are some roads that are extremely dangerous to drive on, in particular the roads to Askvoll and Fjal are among the most dangerous in Norway. The government has a major task that we prioritise, and that's racial protection; we have prioritised that in all the budgets. In the transport sector in general, budgets have increased by 75 pst. from the government took over, so it is clear that there has been a lot of good work here. Of course, we are not going to vote in favour of the proposals of the Central Party. This is because the E18 project is an important project for the citizens of Asker and Bærum. There are many good measures in that project, including: to improve the air quality of those living there. There will also be opportunities for urban development, as we saw when the Opera Tunnel came, and there will also be the possibility of better accessibility for bicycles and buses. We're busy with the districts, but we're also busy with the cities. It's not the Center Party, and it's regrettable.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e644	Meanwhile, with the Left in government or as government support wheels, climate policy has been dimmed in palm oil for one year and increased greenhouse gas emissions for the second year. The oil and energy minister boasted in January of record allocations to the oil industry, and at the top of it all, the government's miserable climate policy has triggered the biggest climate strike ever among Norwegian school students. So my simple question is, how on earth does the representative Raja manage to stand here in the Storting and boast of the government's climate policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e652	We have to measure against what we're actually doing. I think there's a significant difference between what we actually get when the Left sits in government, than when the SV sat in government. Norway has now notified the United Nations that Norway has undertaken to cut its greenhouse gas emissions by 40 pst. By 2030, measured against 1990 levels, and our Council of State is also working intensively now to bring the EU into line to increase these cuts to 55 pst. SV and Left agree with a lot of the environmental struggle. I don't think it makes sense for two environmental parties to drill each other, and it would have been more useful if we were to cheer each other up. We've cheered on all the young people around the country who've been on demonstration trains. The left has been with them and will continue to stand with them. We believe that, for example: have no toll crisis in Norway. I believe that what we have is a climate crisis in the world, and the biggest challenge for us politicians are doing something about the climate crisis. It might be our generation, and the generation that comes after us, that will have the last opportunity to do something about it. It will help the Left to continue its work in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e659	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e664	I can count on those who thank the Finance Committee for their good cooperation on the position we are presenting today. It's going well in Norway. Employment is created, unemployment is falling, and employment rates are rising. The Christian People's Party has negotiated several good government budgets from our position in opposition, and now we have presented a revision that is both careful and moderate, but with some reasonable corrections. The Christian People's Party is the party that fights for us to have a society that knows our cultural roots, and that knows what a human being is worth. We fight for inclusive societies that have room for everyone, where we allow families to have good and safe conditions for young people to have a safe upbringing, where we enable all people to have the opportunity to have their properties out in a safe and good kindergarten, in a safe and good school and later as workers, and not least one, when entering the autumn of life, could also have a good and worthy old age. When we from the opposition have a very good boost to children and young people in the last budget, we follow it up in this round, too, when we've become a government party. The proposal has clear KRF images, for the benefit of children and the elderly. We set up a pilot project on the leisure card to ensure that everyone has the opportunity to participate in leisure activities, regardless of the family economy. Child protection is increased by 250 million. And that's going to be $118 million. kr for a housing social investment aimed at disadvantaged families. The policy should always be measured by how he meets the family's everyday test. The Christian People’s Party has long worked for us to have a good care for families with seriously long - term children. Now we've changed the graduation rules so that parents who have night care or need to be ready, with it not even having to work to avoid getting reduced care money. Nobody's supposed to be mad about getting old in Norway because the big community doesn't stand up. Those who need different care or care later in life must be provided with it. Now we're increasing the parking space for all day care, which corresponds to about 900 seats. Older people also need good and healthy food. It creates both well-being and joy. Now we're going to have to set up a back-up system for the local kitchen in hospitals and in a nursing home. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that one should be able to live a good life in the whole country, and now one has also been given the chance to expand broadband by 50 million. NOK, so the total allowance is 250 million. kr. It's record height. The police districts are strengthened by a 100 million sightings. kr to a police equipment spot. The Veterinary Institute's going to get $30 million. In spite of the proposals made by representatives in the Chamber, the figure should be only 20 million. kr. One will then secure the operations of the regional offices and also get a new building in Tromsø. The biggest task of our time is to halt climate change. The green shift fired speed both in the car park and on the ferry and boat connections. Recently, we have also established a climate agreement with agriculture. There will be a temporary support scheme for county councils to increase the use of zero and low emission solutions in fast boat connections. Enova has been strengthened and has supported a transition to low- and zero-emission solutions with few commercial transport operations. Nysnø AS, who works with climate investment, has received 100 million. kr in fresh funds, and money has been provided to speed up carbon capture and storage when a well drills a test well for stored CO2. The government party has also found room for some re-priorities when we have worked on this matter in the committee. Among other things, we have found it possible to prioritize online future juniors, as a small but important neonormical measure, which also follows the comments we wrote about this in the state budget when it was dealt with in the Stortingen half a year ago. The theme programme between Russia’s growth, NLA and the Hochskulen in the West receives funds. Mid-Throms Museum's project on city museum for children in Lenvik is worth 2 million. kr, and then is one in the goal of funding there. In Oslo, where the Red-Green City Council has given priority to the important ideal actors in the city, a found space for entrance permits has been found both to Caritas' Information and Resource Centre and to P22's work on care and rehabilitation for the important areas and the people involved. I have also noticed that some questions have been asked about the proposal for Decision XXVII in the configuration, where one expresses an authority to the government on the disposal of non-active mines. Several of these mines play an active role in the communities and municipalities they are located in, for example: The boy is mining, which is an important cultural memory. It would be good for the Minister of Industry to do well for how the process continues there, so that the municipalities also get involved in a good way when there is a possible hall of mining property. The proposal from the opposition to revised changes shows that there is a broad connection to the changes we have made from the Size page. They show above all that Norway is doing well, that one builds the strongest community by lifting, and that there is a broad connection to it in this hall. That's good.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e692	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e697	As I know representative Storehaug, we've seen through a lot of people that it's sad when the differences increase and get bigger. I was unable to get to know that there was something to say about it in the post of the representative. But what I want to ask the representative, Mr. Storehaug, is: can he explain to me that if a user uses a part of the various items of measures for families with children, as the Labour Party does in its alternative budget, then there is an increase in the use of oil money, but when a user uses it on the farm, as the government does, and as we are some about is important, isn't there an increase in the use of oil money?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e704	I think I can reassure the representative Hegø that most of the criticism of the Labour Party's proposal to the revised national budget is probably more about a wish that one will have proposals from the Labour Party that are real, and where one can take the criticism the Labour Party comes with it one month, seriously and see that it is followed up with suggestions when the real priorities are actually done. Now we have a revised national budget where one gets to make changes and improvements in the care arrangements, several VTA places, and where one follows up the important victories of the Christian People's Party for strengthened economy for children's families, who have had a change of pace after the Christian People's Party got a hand in the governance of Norwegian politics. It shows that when we say that things are serious, we follow it up, while when the Labour Party, with its proposals, says that something is serious, well, then two one's hands afterwards and doesn't make any real changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e711	The representative at all did not answer my question. When the Labour Party uses the mixed item for families with children, there is the use of oil money — increasing the use of oil money — but when the government uses the item for agricultural purposes, there is no use of oil money. Can the representative explain the difference to me?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e722	The Labour Party has previously criticised the government and called it a way to increase the use of oil money. When the Labour Party just stood a month ago and said that with the budget proposed by the government, a pressure on the crown and perhaps a rise in interest rates in Norway, it is a criticism that is quite serious when, in its proposals, the Labour Party does not provide serious measures to reduce the use of oil money. What is important is that one acts as one speaks, and that does so in this revised budget. When the representative calls for measures to reduce social disparities, measures for families with children and measures to address the differences that exist, there is now a sudden gathering of a pool of holiday and leisure poverty measures of around 300 million. kr. It's a serious rise in relation to the level at which the Labour Party ran the time they actually prioritised.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e727	In an earlier exchange of lines, the representative Raja showed that he had been travelling in the area where both the representative Storehaug and I have grown up. He also said he had seen that there was a need for racial protection around Norway. In the revised budget, there is a cut in the Why does the representative of Greathaug think that this makes sense? Is there not unsolved need for racial protection for which the money could well have been spent?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e732	Yes, it is, on both sides of the fjord that lies between my home and Sigbjørn Gülsvik, it is important measures that should have been taken more quickly to ensure the security of people who depend on those roads. For this reason, I am pleased that the Christian People's Party has been involved in national transport, where these frameworks are strengthened, and where one of them has been able to stop working to secure race. Then follow one up. The changes made in the revision are just one of them in a budget revision. There's more technology than politics.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e738	It is no news that the Right Party and the Advance Party believe that the richest among us must have great economic carrots to want to cross two sticks, while the disadvantaged and the sick must have whips and cuts and poverty to do the same. I have until now thought that the Christian People's Party and the SV were quite in agreement that there was a bad policy. So now there is a cut in redundancy payments for people with poor health and who are unemployed. It has thrown thousands of people into poverty — carried out unsafely. The representative put a lot of emphasis on the security of his contribution, and then there is a need to ask – because when we spend money, there is a choice of value: what kind of value is behind this reversal of the Christian People's Party when they are now involved in cutting off the supply of sick and unemployed people and giving money to the country's freshest and richest?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e743	The representative knows very well that the revised national budget currently under discussion does not include large tax and tax credits. The representative also knows very well that the Christian People's Party voted against the changes in redundancy payments, but he said that it was a big deal about – that one is forced to clarify people before because it is not good to stay away from work for too long, and that the redundancy system was not good enough to help people back. That's a bunch of stuff that said. Now the system is to be evaluated, and then one can possibly come back to the measures that the Christian People's Party had as its primary position when things went to the hall a few years ago. We didn't get that many for that time, but the Christian People's Party stands up for those who stand in the fringes of working life. We also show that, for example: in the revised draft budget currently under way, when 300 new VTA seats are created. It's a priority that we're going to follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e748	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e753	It's something that's gathering the nation for the time being, from mindful Westerners to word-nosed residents and cursed northerners, and it's the rebellion against government policy. In the field after field, the consequences of six years of blue-blue rule become increasingly apparent, and people don't like what they see, because the differences between people are increasing. There have been greater differences between those who have good advice, and those who have bad advice, between those who have bodies that are healthy enough to work, and those who have become too sick to be able to work. There have also been major differences between people from something as simple as postal code. Where you live in the country, you can decide whether you can count on a safe supply of food, whether the police are close to them and whether the post office is coming up. People don't want it like that, and it's the government labeled this spring, in both streets and squares, in the newspaper columns, in the lawn outside the Stortinget and in the polls. Then it is good that when the Stortinget now takes its long vacation, the People's Government does not take vacation. Right over the holiday, in September, people can have the opportunity to weaken the government's influence over our country when they vote in the autumn's municipal elections. When Red is now going into more and more local governments and is going to strengthen us where we are already in municipal government, we have said that we should use the municipalities to counter the government's policy for increasing disparities. To show exactly what is the difference between red and blue-blue priorities, we come up with three major amendments in the revised budget. These are things that need to be addressed now to reduce both the differences and greenhouse gas emissions. Firstly, we are proposing an emergency measure, so that no one can lose their redundancy money without deciding whether to return to work or have the right to disability benefit. We've been told in the last year by people who lose their livelihood almost overnight because of how the government has weakened the redundancy scheme. We know that people don't get better from getting poorer – they just get poorer – and insecurity doesn't make it easier to get through a difficult period and get back to work, for those who have the opportunity. We don't get the whole system repaired in a revised budget, but a minimum goal must be to ensure that no one is thrown into poverty because things take time. That's why Red is 250 million. kr to seal the new hole in the safety net – a hole the blue-blue ones have created through their decisions here in Stortinget. Secondly, we're proposing something that we've suggested many times before, and that we're really pretty tired of having to take up and argue for from the Stortinge pulpit, because it's a completely obvious change in today's system that everyone should be able to attend. Every parent responsible for children gets child-responsive because society is shattering a bit of the bill by raising the next generation. Erna has asked people to give birth to more children, and then it's good that people who do so can have good arrangements to take care of those children. It should be said that the government has increased child welfare somewhat. It was overtime, but it was good that it happened. Then it's incomprehensible that those who need the child's peace of mind most are the only ones who don't get it. In most of the municipalities in the country, if the family receives social assistance, they do not get child welfare. This applies to 50,000 children — the poorest children among us. We're in a hurry to do something about this. Red puts money into our proposal to solve the problem for the whole country. Unfortunately, things suggest that that proposal will be voted down by the bourgeois majority in this Chamber today, but our local people around the municipalities are in the process of doing the job of cleaning up locally when the Stortinget does not take action centrally, by deciding in the local authorities not to shorten child welfare against social assistance. But the Storting should clean up once and solve this at national level, so that the poorest children in all municipalities will also have child welfare, as all other children are entitled to. The third grip we propose in the revision of the budget, I would say is a cheeky egg. It reduces greenhouse gas emissions, it reduces toll billing, and it makes everyday life easier for most people. The government intends to spend even more money on polluting, toll-funded motorways and will accelerate the E18 project towards Oslo, which will provide much more queue, much more cork, much more greenhouse gas emissions and pollution in our capital and not least increased passenger car traffic, which will once again be financed by sending a huge toll bill to the country’s inhabitants – almost NOK 30,000 extra to commute from Asker to Lysaker, greetings Progress Party, Right, Labour Party and most other parties on the Stortinget. Rather, Red suggests using these millions of collective projects, such as the Fornebubanen in Oslo and the Bybanen in Bergen, to get an extra drag on expanding the railway and ensuring that the state takes more of the bill in environmentally friendly traffic projects around the country. It's in the government's traffic-enhancing highway projects that there's money to bring down the toll bill and the money to bring up the collective projects. That's where the big money is – not in removing flower boxes in Oslo, which are also set up to prevent terrorist attacks. If the goal is to find money for the necessary development of public transport and to bring down the toll bill, it is in the motorway projects of the government that you can pick it up – not in the famous flower boxes here in the city. I'm looking forward to the autumn's choice. The measurements give us very good reason to look forward to it, but not least because I think there is a clear message from the Norwegian people to the government that we are no longer involved in this. We do not accept that the rich will be richer, while the poor will be poorer. We don't want any major differences between people in Norway – based on your wallet or the postal code where you live – we want a society with less differences and more justice. That message I think will come from the polls around the country until the fall. I look forward to that. With that, I take up Red's proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e776	The representative Bears Moxnes has taken up the suggestions he referred to. The President will draw attention to the fact that the Prime Minister is not mentioned in the Stortinget and in this Chamber by first name. Our Prime Minister is called ‘Minister of State Erna Solberg’. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e785	On the Right Guard, unemployment goes down, and more jobs are created. Red, on the other hand, wants to put down our biggest industry and vote against the projects that provide workers along the coast and in my own home town of Stavanger's job. Not enough: they want to raise their taxes by 39 billion. kr in one year. For many of the companies in a difficult transition, it would have meant bankruptcy. In addition, on questions from e24.no, it was found that ‘the party has not taken a decision on concrete measures for entrepreneurs in Norway’. That's the answer to bankruptcy. But now two years have passed, and the representative of Moxnes is going to try again, without just talking about the state: what concrete measures have Red for the entrepreneurs in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e794	Firstly, with regard to the claim that we want to put down jobs across the country, there was a major conflict in the Stortingen last year about Acer, about control over energy and industrial policy in Norway. The red was then with the industrial workers, with a combined LO, with a single left-hand side, while the Right joined with the other bourgeois parties plus the Workers' Party and the Environmental Party of the Greens for Brussels and for the Acer. The decision may mean that we give more control over power and energy policies to the EU, that we can have more foreign connections that can in turn lead to an increase in electricity prices. And it'll be the hook on the door for very much of the industry along our coast, which is totally dependent on having access to cheap electricity from clean, renewable hydropower. So there is clearly a distinction between Red and Right in industrial policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e799	It is clear that Red did not answer the question at all. And now we all know the answer: Red is opponents of the entrepreneurs, as long as they don't work in the state. It is also clearly confirmed that Red is opposed to private property rights. Where Red believes that everyone has to work in the state, we are actually the founders, as well as facilitating public activities. The representative is going to try again, because if we're going to have revenues to distribute in order to create a safe welfare society, someone actually has to create those values and incomes of the community. So please – try again, Representative Moxnes: What measures have Red been taken for entrepreneurs and private job creation?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e804	First of all, the right doesn't come except for the Acer, but now leave it alone -- it's okay, it's uncomfortable to talk about, I can talk about entrepreneurs instead. Red's policy is to ensure that those who create the values in society, those who do the job in businesses, will gain more power over their jobs – and it is very important to ensure that new ideas and better solutions can grow from below and up, from the floor, whether they are on the factory floor or in other businesses – rather than a policy that promotes a kind of cockpit management where management controls everything. We want to give the workers, the real values, much more power over their jobs. And if the aim is to create new ideas for production, for innovation, it's absolutely vital that those who actually know their business, who can work and know what both the challenges and the opportunities, get more power. And our proposal for employee-run enterprises is also a cheek egg for business start-ups.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e809	The representative of Moxnes fought hard at the national meeting against the party being defined as communist. The battle lost the representative of the Moxnes, and the party Red is defined as communist. In a liberal society like ours, we should be very happy that we have room for different ideologies. So lucky you wouldn't have been in a communist system – that you would have been as open as we are lucky to be here in Norway. I would like a concrete response from the representative from Red, who defines himself as communist: what communist model should the Norwegian economy be converted to? What country is the representative of Moxnes going to bring forward, and what ideologist will the representative of Moxnes point out? He can be specific and mention the name of a country and of an ideologist who wants the Norwegian economy to be converted to and aligned with.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e816	Had Red been a Communist party, which it is not, the leader would not have been disarmed by the national meeting. It happened, as I remember. It's an example and a sign that Red is not a Communist party. But we have a goal of a classless society far ahead. It is a goal shared by the labour movement in Norway, even by the Workers' Party, until 1984, well, that was a goal of a classless society. A class society means that differences are inherited. A classless society means that you actually have equal opportunities. I have no particular country or individual as a model for my policy. What is clear in Norway, that is, the struggle of the labour movement for the freedom, equality and equivalency of all people, is perhaps my leading guide. That's what we're working for and trying to achieve.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e824	I noticed that the representative would not answer the question from the Right about how to create jobs in Norway either. I understand that it's the same mantra of betraying the kingdom that's at the root of this, but you might have to expect the leader of a party that has just defined itself as a Communist party at the national meeting, that one or at any rate you can point to one communist model to which you would like to convert the Norwegian economy. But now leave it. I really do not expect an answer from the manager of Red, because I see that he really does not answer any questions. But I want to get into the oil fund. I may remember mistakes here, but Red has had a policy for what you want to do with the oil fund. Is it that you still want to put down the oil fund, and if you want to, what are you going to spend that money for?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e831	I'll probably recommend Raja a little more thorough washing of the ears before the next possible line. The questions will be answered continuously from the Chair, including this question. We made proposals that were discussed in the Storting yesterday on a new, green industrial revolution. There we have shown what we want to do to convert the Norwegian economy in a fair way, both to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and to ensure value creation for the future. Part of that plan is that we want to use part of the oil fund to develop new industries in Norway, among others. because there is not enough risk-taking private capital to take risks over many decades to generate new technologies that are necessary for the green shift and that will require large investments. It is to equip Norway for future challenges – that is, to build new industries that are environmentally friendly, cut emissions and secure jobs and value creation in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e838	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e843	I don't really like myself: it's perhaps the way we all have to learn that the world is changing. For Red, it must be difficult to use an analogy on cockpits after the first year in which the pilots have been on strike, have entered the LO and have left in the 1st May train. The analogy with who controls might have to be a little bit different. It's actually going well in the Norwegian economy. Growth is high, and more and more people come to work. The registered unemployment rate has not been lower in 10 years. There is a great deal of investment, both on the mainland and on the Norwegian base. The economy has become less vulnerable to fluctuations in the oil price. The oil industry has been greatly more efficient, and new projects are profitable even with an oil price significantly lower than the current level. International growth slowed down in the last year, particularly in Europe. Uncertainty remains high, including: related to trade conflicts between the United States and other countries, possibly lower growth in China and the unexplained situation surrounding the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the EU. However, the main picture is that global growth is expected to rise cautiously in the future. Norwegian companies have better competitiveness than before the oil price drop. It facilitates increased activity in Norwegian business in the future. And we see trends in increasing industrialisation again with repatriation and re-establishment. Although interest rates are rising, increased real wages growth and a positive view of the future are expected to give rise to private consumption. At the same time, the decline in housing investment is expected to stop. In short, the outlook for the Norwegian economy is good. Good development is reflected in the labour market. In the last year we have seen a decline in unemployment in most of the counties, and the reduction has been highest in the South and Western countries. Employment is increasing more strongly than in the past. Only in the last three years has 109 000 more persons employed. The share of jobs increases after several years of decline. It is particularly gratifying to see that employment comes first in the private sector. Four out of five new employees have arrived in the last year. This is joyous, because it strengthens the sustainability of our welfare society. And it shows that government's policy on growth and change works. We have facilitated the good development of business by holding back public money when the activity of the economy has taken place. That way, we have avoided unnecessary pressure on interest rates and interest rates. Overall, fiscal policies have been neutralising the activity of the economy in recent years. It has provided room for growth and employment in the private sector. The use of oil revenue in the 2019 budget corresponds to 2.9 pst. by State pension funds abroad. It's a responsible use of oil money. In all our budgets, we have kept money on or under this long-term guideline of 3pst. Although the revised national budget is essentially an update of the budget due to new information, we have found it appropriate to increase expenditure in some areas. Among other things, the loss of KNM ‘Helge Ingstad’ requires increased appropriations for the Defence. We have also increased the appropriations allocated to the police and to the PST, both to prevent and to investigate crime. And we have increased the focus on climate action, including: through increased funds for climate-friendly investments through Nysnø. With the revised budget for 2019, we are making it possible for the good development of the Norwegian economy to continue. A responsible use of oil money supports under competitive power and necessary conversions that we see and need in the Norwegian economy. At the same time, we spend money in a way that strengthens the growth capacity of the economy. It facilitates a sustainable welfare society in the long term. In the 2019 budget, the government continued to invest in trade, research and education. There are initiatives that support innovation and productivity, and that will give us more legs to stand on in the future. The changes in the tax system that we have implemented over the years promote growth and conversion and mean that people can retain more of their income. In the future, we will face challenges in fiscal policy. Oil revenues will gradually decrease, and we'll have an older population, which costs more money for both pensions and health. People who are at work have to take care of more people. The government's answer to this is to conduct a policy that facilitates more people going to work, and to spend the money in the public sector smarter, so that we get more out of every penny we spend. We also carry out a comprehensive digitisation of the public sector. We need to seize the opportunities inherent in technology to provide better services to citizens, but also to more efficient administration and to release resources for the most important tasks in the future – to ensure that we can develop good care for an increasing number of older people, and to ensure that we can provide good services in the health sector. Setting up Norway for the future also means a stronger commitment in the field of climate and the environment. The government's ambitious climate policy works. Since 2015, greenhouse gas emissions have been reduced by less than 3 pst, although there was an increase of 0.4 pst. last year. We clearly see these changes in the transport sector. We maintain the electric car benefits and have a record in terms of new electric cars. There are 80 zero-emission and low-emission ferries en route into Norwegian fjords and bays in the coming years. The share of collective travel is increasing. Yesterday, the government presented a green shipping action plan with the ambition to halve emissions from domestic shipping by 2030. This week, Stortinget adopted joint EU compliance with the 2030 emission target. The agreement with the EU will provide a good and predictable framework for Norwegian climate policy – for the requirements to achieve the objectives, but also for the business community about the framework in the future. Today, we see that the government's investment in biodiesel increases the number of suppliers. When we now agree to purchase biodiesel in order to move on to the fact that air traffic will use more of it in the future, we will ensure new suppliers of just biodiesel in Norway. As always, there is uncertainty about future developments. Debt in Norwegian households continues to grow faster than income, but growth in debt has slowed somewhat since the summer of 2017. Although lending rates are low, the total expenditure of households on debt servicing at a historically high level and around the levels of the banking crisis at the end of the 1980s and the financial crisis in 2008. Households' debt is still a source of vulnerability in our society. With high debt, many would have to tighten up the consumption at higher interest rates or if housing prices were to fall markedly. Also a possible weaker growth outside, e.g. as a result of the further build-up of trade restrictions, could contribute negatively to the rise in the Norwegian economy. But it's also such that the growth here at home can be stronger than expected if, for example, oil prices would still be higher, or if the improvement in competitiveness would bring up exports and investment more than we now expect. Therefore, it is still important that we work for and contribute to a competitive business life, create more jobs and ensure that well-being in the long term is better ensured. We're going to enjoy the good development of the Norwegian economy. More people get into work and the growth of the economy seems to stay high. Of course, we should also take into account any challenges that might arise from the outside. The 2019 budget is well adapted to the situation we are in, and facilitates the continued good development of business. An economy that is growing also provides the basis for the sustainability we need in government finances, and for us to maintain and further develop our welfare society. The government has set out a course that responds to the challenges of the Norwegian economy in the short and long term. In the revised budget, we maintain this course that helps to make us more competitive, by investing in framework conditions for businesses, business, transport and education that also improve our competitiveness in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e873	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e878	I get almost daily enquiries from concerned rapporteurs who tell me about summer-ridden Länsmann's offices, about an absent police and unworthy cows: rape victims, and others who have to stand in line to report the matter, queue to get it investigated and in line to get it up to court. The sum of the queue provides more and more criminals with a penalty discount. And it is necessary to be clear from this pulpit: the government has broken the agreement on police reform that was there. It closes its eyes to the critical situation of a reform that has derailed. Instead, the under-financing of police districts and the reform continues; it shows this revised budget. The shaken reform is the right-wing government and the prime minister's responsibility. Does the Prime Minister see that the development of this reform — under-financing, under-funding — is one of the reasons why the reform is going so badly? Why does the government not use the revised budget to clean up?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e887	I heard in the morning today that the Workers' Party should not be a slogan party. I'm not sure if I think it fits the line I heard now. At least it wasn't a line that shows that you've gone in and looked at what we're actually proposing in the revised national budget. We propose to give a little more time by not taking out profit-making realities, so you keep more of what you want into, into the budgets of the police districts. We're increasing by 100 million. kr in the bill of expenditure for the police. In addition, we strengthen the PST significantly to ensure that we have instruments in the future, including to combat the type of crime that poses a threat to social security. One of the biggest efforts we are making in the revised national budget is to make Norway safer by providing new instruments, better financial framework conditions for the police and more equipment in the future. Then it is strange to hear a line that indicates that you have not read this at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e894	Let me then take a slogan from the throne debate last year. Then the prime minister said: «The response time goes down, you get out faster. People's perception that the police are more present is stronger than before." This slogan is far from reality. A report based on a survey of this reform among more than 3,000 policemen is depressing reading. 80 pst. think prevention work is going to be either worse or equal to that before, 80 pst. indicates that the standby is getting worse or equal to that before, and 90 pst. states that the availability of the police to the police has become less or less the same as before. Almost none of the people asked believe in the goal of a police force with almost equal services across the country. Is the Prime Minister saying that the response time is falling, and that the perception that the police are more present applies to people?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e906	There's a difference between slogans and quotes. That survey showed, and still shows, that people are experiencing better services from the police. But then there is no doubt that there are challenges in the police, and that there are challenges in implementing the near-police reform. Among other things, the biggest challenge is that the composition of crime has changed significantly, not necessarily that it has changed as much as we believe from statistics, but that we actually have a police force that investigates what we have said they should investigate: the most important, the closest, violence in close relations and child abuse. I have experienced a big thing that has repeatedly said that we have to do more with this. That's what the police are doing now. They spend a lot more resources coordinating, investigating, stopping abuse here at home, and stopping abuse ordered out, and getting people imprisoned. It's a real quality part of the reform. We're actually investigating what we've actually prioritised, which we didn't do before.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e913	That's not reality out there. I have here a list of 120 rapporteurs who, early in June, wrote letters to the Minister of Justice, so far without answers, expressing concern about the situation. Heidi Granli, rapporteur in the municipality of Gol, says it clearly: we believe that the Minister of Justice has abandoned the agreement on police reform as intended. We're worried on behalf of our citizens. She describes for her municipality reduced preparedness and fewer policemen at work to secure the inhabitants of Hallingdal. And what we hear when we travel around Norway is that more and more districts are experiencing the loss of the policemen they could trust in in the past were available when terrifying situations happened. From having policemen known, employed in the district, they now have to wait for police forces who can have very long travel routes and who do not have local knowledge either. Many volunteer offices are empty, and recruitment to meet the new type of crime requires investment. Those investments have been absent year after year. It's a chronic underfinancing. Does the Prime Minister understand these rapporteurs' concern for their citizens?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e926	I understand that there is concern about a change that means that you can no longer go to a loner's office – which, after all, did not investigate violence and abuse in close relationships, or found out that it put an attacker in the basement and ordered abuse from elsewhere, but that we used the resources on a crime scene that was a bit, as I have said before, Egon Olsen-like. You knew who it was, you saw what you heard, while the new crime scene is different. I really think that as politicians we should stand up to a police force that does what we have asked them to do in the last five to six years: to ensure that the priorities on which the Stortinget has been so clear, violence and abuse of children are actually given priority. Then we gather resources, then we use them more. Then we have a much more mobile police, who travel around and are more present. That is why we have also seen improvements in response time. But right now, the last one, when you move in all the positions, there's a little bit of a stop in the improvements that have been. But I am absolutely sure that with a few adjustments, this reform will show a quality promise for the police.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e936	I find it unworthy that the Prime Minister, another representative of a government party, pushes violence and abuse in front of him in the argumentation. People living around the country feel that the police are less visible, and that they do not come when serious incidents occur. It is, in fact, a security that people in Norway must expect. In response to this year’s revised national budget, the government writes – black on white – that the number of police officers in operational service in Norway in 2019 is less than last year. In East police districts, for example, there are almost 50 fewer police officers in operational service this year than last year. In the south-east police district it is approx. Thirty-five fewer. People expect a police present to come and stand up. Why is progress in this direction?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e945	This government has granted almost 4 billion. kr more to the police. We have had a massive increase in both police and other police positions. But we are also doing what goes on in the quality of police reform: gathering resources, researching more, going deep into things. I think it is a cheap debate to say that an argument on the basis of those priorities, namely the investigation of violence and child abuse, is unworthy. This is the truth in the police offices. 3 percent of the cases that the police have use 30 pst. of their investigative capacity. These are the heavy infringement cases, the issues that have to be addressed far and wide, and the issues that we have said – and I believe that everyone on the Stortinget has said – that the police should give priority. That means they're making a real priority. There is also more police out there and running than it has been in many years. But we're in a conversion, and then we need some adjustments.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e956	If there's more police out there and running than in very many years, it's a little special that the last thing that's been done by the police officer in East Police District is that he has removed the emergency instructions that have been in the last ten years, that there should be a minimum of five patrols all along. That instruction has been removed because it says that the overtime budget must be used to meet it. So one has fewer patrols than before. In order to be able to take care of the important issues related to violence and abuse, one must have both specialists and a local police. That's the combination you have to do. Then one has to be careful to reduce in the Police Directorate, which has been outstretched by today's government, and to strengthen the police districts and to have a more present police force. Why are developments still going in the wrong direction, and why are there only slogans coming back from the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e963	In this revised national budget, we are spending more money on operations, investments and new methods in the PST to secure us on these important issues. There has been a clear prioritisation of the police in the revised national budget. That's not all that's perfect. These are areas of police reform that we must look at. There are also areas where we're discovering much more darkness than we've had on crime in the past. All the political groups in Norway have received more money under this government, all of whom have received considerably more jobs under this government. But you spend more on the investigation part of the heavy stuff, because crime doesn't necessarily happen so that you can see it locally -- what you've seen on the street before, has moved to the web. It's a completely different sphere to work today. Many of the challenges of one's own personal integrity do not necessarily come through what's happening in the street, but through someone stealing one's identity, pretending to be another and rubbing you through the web. We need to have more capacity on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e972	From this round we have to note that the government sees no problems at all with the police reform and does not recognise that there are any problems associated with the police reform. If that is so, it must be because this government lacks the ability to listen to what is actually going on inside the police as well as outside among people. It can't just apply to the police, because we've seen that in ours. There is massive centralization, and people are very concerned. They are concerned about their ambulance service, which is centralised within the various health establishments. They're worried about hospitals. They're worried about colleges that can be closed down. They are concerned that there will be a new centralisation in the courts, and they are concerned that new municipalities and counties will be merged. The Minister of Local Affairs said a few weeks ago that all municipalities with less than 5,000 inhabitants do not have the right to life. They're too small. What is the government's objective in terms of municipalities? Is it to join all municipalities with less than 5,000 inhabitants because they don't have the right to life?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e981	I have in two replies that not everything is perfect in the near police reform, and that there is a need to look at the sides of it, and not least the areas that need to be strengthened. We cannot then establish that we believe that there is nothing wrong, and that there is no need to adjust. It is, in my opinion, a bit of a mistake in what the Prime Minister has actually responded in two replies. I believe it is important that we have municipalities that are able to provide good core services to their inhabitants. One of the main challenges we are going to face in the future will be the demographic change in Norway. It's a national challenge. That is why I have encouraged to have a little more children in this country. The national challenge is much faster in many small districts, because there are fewer employed and more retired and older. The starting point for providing good services is the need to provide efficient services locally. Then it's a challenge with a part of the municipal structure, which we haven't had enough answers to through the solutions we've had so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e988	People are shaking their heads and laughing at the government's railway reform, which has given 50 new directors to now – and we're still counting – with the corresponding million wages, but not what people want: faster and more frequent trains. Afterwards, tenders are beginning to fall behind. In the case of the Sørlandsbanen, it has been found that the savings with which the government has filed a complaint are questionable. Now one also starts to look at the tender packages for Trøndelag and Nord-Norway, where SJ, Statens Järnvägen, came out in the tet. An calculation in the class struggle today shows that the state will actually lose on that not Vy, but SJ was elected. Given that Vy, according to the Class Fight today, had also achieved what is below the normal operating margin on the routes on which they operate today, the company would have made – directly or indirectly – almost 200 million. kr more than one saver to choose SJ. Why is the government concerned about giving this money to the Swedes instead of spending it on its own?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e997	Unlike the representative Lightbakken, I believe that what we have now seen in connection with the call for tenders is that it was absolutely right to do this – just as we saw when we did with the Gjøvik Railway under the Bondevik II Government, where we got more departures and better quality. That time, NSB won. But they could, because they were exposed to competition, deliver a service cheaper than they did when they were in a monopoly situation. What they're doing now is realizing almost 1 billion a year. kr, which we can use for better collective provision in cities, higher investments in railway or other priorities, by ensuring that they operate well. At the same time, there will be more departures and better quality – so there will be better services for citizens. This is a success story, where we actually reveal that the eight years when red-green politicians were waiting for the change in the railway was eight lost years to release money for better investment in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1006	The Prime Minister forgot everything else we got with the railway reform. There are so many new companies that it's been compared to a revision number. The total cost is more than 1 billion. kr for reorganisation and 50 new directors, many of whom had a two-digit percentage increase in earnings last year. Well, I guess that's part of the math. The Prime Minister did not respond to what I was asking for, namely the wisdom of setting up a system that makes it impossible for a state-owned Norwegian company to take account of the possibility that, in sum, a state-owned Norwegian company could get more money into the community because the surplus goes to the Norwegian State instead of possibly leaving the country, to either commercial owners abroad or even to the Swedish State. Why does the government think it is right that any surplus in the railway should go to the Swedish state and not to the Norwegian state?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1015	It's not like the NSB would have given them a profit if we hadn't had a competitive situation and they had won that competition. It's not sure that Vy would realize this without actually having been a competition. What we've seen is we haven't driven well enough. What these reviews and results show is that we can operate the railway cheaper than before in Norway, providing better quality and a better offer to the inhabitants. I think we're going to be responsible to all Norwegian taxpayers, which makes every time we collect a tax credit from them, we say, we use it the best possible way, because I know you could use that tax credit on something that your family had prioritised for other things. That's one of the things we get when we get a better offer at a lower price. I want to remind you that this is a line change, not a question time. That's why I'm answering the whole line, not just the question, as in a question hour.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1026	We see the bulwark guerrilla, toll riots, power riots against export cables, windmill protests, district riots against centralisation and an AAP uprising. The last one is because thousands of people are now in a completely unsustainable situation. Some have been told that they will lose the AAP almost overnight, without notice. They end up on the social side when they should have been helped to get to work instead – thanks to the government's tightening up of the AAP system. I wonder what Erna Solberg thinks about the need for necessary changes to make sure that no one loses the right to the AAP until they're ready to either work or social security.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1034	The AAP is a temporary performance to be there to be completed and where to get relief measures. It replaces a lot of other benefits, which people went between. It shall make a more tidy system. What became a challenge with the AAP was that there was finally a waiting room where no clarifications were made in a good enough way. Therefore, we have spent more resources on clarification, so we make sure that Nav follows the individual users more closely, so we have a number of other measures. And we're looking at other things. We have e.g. changes in the training schemes made and in the case of qualification assistance. This means that people who have previously been parked on the AAP should be able to use other schemes, because they are not really sick, but may have skills challenges or other challenges. Our goal is to get all the clarifications done over the three years you can get the AAP or an extended scheme. That's what we're after, we're now working to implement.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1041	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1046	Norway is at its best when solving problems and challenges together. It creates the basis for good lives for most people throughout the country. It gives communities that are strong and small differences. Economic policy must build up below the Community values, ensure safe work for all, ensure good welfare and security for all and make use of the whole country. The revised budget of the Right-wing Government, which is currently being debated, does not contribute to this. Things are going better in the Norwegian economy. The growth has taken place, and several have come to work. The Norwegian economy is over the setback in the oil price drop. It is good, and it is not least due to low interest rates over many years and social partners who have taken and take great responsibility. But the rise that this government calls solid is, in fact, fragile. The rise seems to have stabilised at low levels of employment. The possibility of getting more people in work that the rise would create seems to be absent. Many people still have no job, and the growth comes in industries that have a lot of rent and get fixed employment. Moreover, the rise is not characterised by a shift to new export industries and more bones to be carried out in the Norwegian economy. There is little investment in new business despite record high oil money consumption and high tax relief, and the low interest rates have created a debt burden for Norwegian households that are higher than ever. A large proportion of households are now vulnerable to loss of income or an increase in interest rates. It's a matter of concern. Finally, and perhaps most importantly, the budget does nothing and has no strategy or direction to reduce growing differences in our country. On the contrary, the unsocial policy of tax cuts to them most from the outset continues. It is twice as bad that the unfair tax policy, in which the richest of all gets 8 billion each year. kr in tax cuts, goes hand in hand with tightening up, centralising and commercialising public welfare, tendering, privatising. The rich are getting more and withdrawing, while the usual incomes are hanging behind. Others meet hospitals that have to save, lack of permanent staff, more expensive electricity, SFO and kindergartens, commuter allowances cut, care for the elderly on the offer, canning offices laid down, and municipalities that have seen zero growth in free income in the last three years. It's unfair, and it increases the differences. A revised budget shall be precisely that, an audit. It is not our alternative budget that we are now revising, it is the budget that the majority adopted last year, but even in a revised budget, the Labour Party shows that there is a solidarity alternative that can also be expressed in the middle of the year. The working party wishes to provide the best possible care, not the cheapest possible. Therefore, we strengthen the content of care for the elderly with a bet of 50 million. kr, we invest in a health technology scheme for municipalities of 50 million. kr, and we strengthen our efforts to create a full-time culture in the healthcare sector by 20 million. kr. The Labour Party is betting on our common hospitals, not private solutions and commercialisation. That's why we're increasing the hospital budget by another 200 million. kr. While the government's contribution to the police is not cutting 50 million. NOK 50 million. kr on top. The working party is betting on good, accessible welfare services for children and young people, not need testing and cash benefits. That's why we're giving $0.5 billion. kr more to the municipalities, so that they can approach the goal of a meal to all schoolchildren and free SFOs for first-class students. The Labour Party believes that job creation throughout the country and climate policy must go hand in hand. That's why we're giving 125 million. DKK to regional development funds, 100 million. kr to the Eco-Technology Scheme, and we are increasing support for the shipbuilding industry to renew the ship's fleet more with environmentally friendly ships. In areas by region, we take sides with ordinary people and make their lives and everyday lives better and easier. We'll give you 100 million. kr so that those who are not ready for disability or for work are allowed to extend the AAP until Nav has completed the person’s working capacity. This is why we took the initiative to reduce costs to rv. 3 and Rv. 25 The roundabout violence – The groundwork/Basthjørnet in Hedmark benefits the drivers. We're reducing the toll percentage by 150 million. kr in this revised budget. Here comes the government parties with promises for the future. The working party is now delivering the money. We need stronger communities, smaller differences and more justice in Norway. The Workers' Party's proposal for the revised state budget for 2019 takes us in that direction. The right-wing government's proposal doesn't.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1074	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1079	I understand that the representative, Støre, is programmed to be critical of the government's policy; it's his job as opposition leader. But criticism should be consistent. When the revision was presented, the Labour Party's criticism on 14 May was that oil money was too high, it could drive interest rates in the weather and jeopardize employment. Then we get answers from Professor Torsvik of NTNU who says it's likely that the Labour Party budget is more expansive than the government's. When I heard the post that the representative Støre held, which was a list of addition proposals that the Workers' Party had in almost all areas of society, the question of whether the representative Støre is still concerned about the use of oil money when they perform to spend more in their budget than the government puts up.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1084	We spend no more oil money than the government, but we deliver a revision of the government's budget. We're doing it within a framework where we're showing containment, and we're betting on areas that show a different direction in the middle of the year. Every year this government has meant using more oil money, while at the same time providing permanent cuts in the country's income in the form of tax relief with an unsocial profile. It is necessary to correct, and it can show the opposition through a mid-year budget: using the money in other ways, betting and showing that in a six-month period we can work out a different course. In addition, when this budget was presented, a number of economists pointed out that it is striking that half-way out of the year the government has to use more oil money in its budget – what they have proposed and voted for. The budget we have is there for the country. The fact that there will be a loss of income in the middle of the year is because of this. a budget adopted by the majority and taken responsibility for which we must act.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1091	The representative Støre is known for holding seminars, and one of them he held on Wednesday. At this seminar, he proudly stated that the Workers' Party was not a slogan party. The working party is not a party that comes with simple slogans and rhetorical plays for the playoffs, he said. Well – when the budget we are discussing now, was presented on 14 May by the government, Jonas Gahr Støre was on the same day, for two hours after the presentation, out at NTB and said: ‘Increasing oil money use may increase interest rates, which would adversely affect normal families with mortgages and businesses.’ Today we are sitting with the facade of the Workers' Party. Not only have they accepted the government's oil money usage, but they have not only adopted it, but they have also accelerated it. What makes the government's 6.9 billion oil crowns lead to an increase in interest rates in May, while the Labour Party's 7.1 billion oil crowns do not do so in June?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1105	The government's budget mid-year makes it necessary to collect the large sums in order to avoid cutting hospital and police and further cuts in the policies of the government. It would be unreasonable to expect that, with regard to the budget we voted against, which comes into this situation in the middle of the year, the opposition will be exempted from making the right cuts in important areas of well-being. If we were to assume responsibility today, we had to do it in the budget that was adopted. We've done what we thought was necessary. So oil money had to come under control over time, and you don't do that from one year to another.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1110	The working party goes in to save 3.7 million. kr and cancel the railway reform. Only days after it has become known that both Vy and SJ competed in the operation of trains in Central Norway and North Norway submitted tenders which will improve the offer for travellers, while reducing the costs of the country significantly – in fact up to 0,5 billion. kr a year, much more than the Labour Party will save on cancelling the reform. The question will then be: why is the Workers' Party going against saving 0.5 billion? kr, which can be used to improve the railway infrastructure, when it provides better offers to travellers at the same time?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1117	That's the way it is when you have a short-sighted view of major reforms in society. One million here and one million there, the sum is what we save in, see how great it is! Where do they take the railway sector? State councils have to have a reminder in Stortinget to remember which companies are set up. It's Director after Director of Millions of Wages and a competing rail system in the small country of Norway, who's going to see rail and transport in the context of the whole transport challenge, with infrastructure, what we're doing on roads, rail and along the sea. That reform has a wrong direction. The initiative on the railway started in our time of government. More has been allocated to the railway in this time of government, we are in favour – we have voted for it. But we want to turn that reform into a different direction, where we get a common direction, where we get someone who is responsible for the course of Norwegian railway policy. We do not have that with the fragmentation and commercialisation we have seen today, and which will lead to that maybe not Norwegian railway companies operating some routes in a few years' time, if this policy continues.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1122	The distribution committee, at the Statistical Central Bureau, has pointed out the importance of child welfare in reducing economic differences and reducing the number of children living in poor families. Yes, it is referred to as one of the most effective measures against child poverty. Social security for children is a scheme that applies to all, regardless of income. It's a universal system that's not stigmatizing to those who need it the most. This government has prioritised increasing child welfare for 2019 and has the ambition to increase it further. As a batch engaged in balancing differences and reducing the number of children growing up in poor families, why does the Workers' Party not choose to give priority to actions that are known to work?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1130	The working party is very child-responsive. It's important to turn the ring around. Then we have to discuss strategically: is it best to reach families, to correct differences that happen in early years, to spread increased child welfare by some amount per year to all mothers who have children in childhood? Is that the best strategy? Or is it to bet on better school leisure arrangements, school food for everyone, more affordable kindergartens, more affordable growth and better leisure activities, which allow both mothers and fathers in low-income families to work and increase income, and which ensures that children do not have to leave the school leisure system because they cannot afford it? We believe that the latter can be the best scheme – using the welfare community's opportunities to offer to everyone, bringing us together in common arenas. We think it's more accurate than spreading this money, as the government has suggested.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1137	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1142	Norway's doing well. The economy is strong and stable. The unemployment rate is the lowest in ten years. At the same time, growth is increasing. Jobs are created, and more are qualified for work. In the classrooms, there's more peace. The students learn more, and more complete high school. An increasing number of refugees come to work or education after an introduction programme has been completed. Government policy responds to challenges people face in their everyday lives, and Norway is prepared for the future. Only in the last three years has 109 000 more persons employed. Three out of four jobs are now created in the private sector. The competitiveness of enterprises has been significantly enhanced, including: as a result of weaker crowns, lower taxes and responsible salary settlements. All over the country, businesses are now characterised by optimism and investment. Employment growth is highest in the district of Norway. This should especially be noticed by the Center Party. In the past, unemployment was high, and the districts were in the oil shadow. We are now in a situation where there is a shortage of labour, not work. This will be exploited by the government by getting more of those outside the labour market into work. This is a priority on the part of the government, because more people in work are strengthening well-being. When we talk about differences in society, it's important to remember that the greatest difference is between those who have a job to go to, and those who don't. Making sure that several of the outsiders, more of those who don't have a job to go to, more of those who are passive today, get into work, is also the biggest effort we can make against great differences in society. It is therefore gratifying that the active share of health-related benefits has declined every year since 2010. The inclusion principle is precisely an action to use the competences of those who have not yet been given the opportunity to prove what they can. Our objective is that no one should be left out of the labour market involuntarily. The list of examples of how our policies work is long. For the first time in many years, the employment rate is increasing. We also see that employers recruit more labour from the domestic labour force than before, where they used to recruit from abroad. The policies of our government contribute to the transformation and growth of the Norwegian economy. We are facilitating the green shift through an offensive climate policy for ecological sustainability, because future generations will have as good opportunities as we do. In particular, we see positive developments in international climate cooperation. Emissions in the EU allowance market fell by 4 pst. last year. Half of Norway’s emissions are linked to the EU ETS. It's a paradox that SV says no to the world's most effective climate cooperation. The government provides a budget that strengthens the sustainability of the welfare society, both ecological, social and economic. To put it another way: the right parties and the government parties deliver what we promised – real solutions to real problems for real people. We are now four parties in government, following the entry of the Christian People's Party in January. But although enlargement is new, cooperation between the four parties has been a long time. In almost six years we have reached an agreement on twelve budgets. It says a little bit about how stable this collaboration actually is. The key lies in the ability to compromise. At a time when debates are polarized, when in other countries we see tougher fronts between political friends as well as opponents, the will and ability to compromise are no longer obvious. It's just looking over the pond of Britain. Lack of willingness to compromise, both internally and between the major parties, is much of the reason why the country is in the current situation. But even though we are able to reach an agreement across the blocks on the really big issues, in the light of the twelve budget unions of the four bourgeois parties, it would have been interesting to see how the chaos on the left side of Norway will take place, with five parties pointing in at least five different directions. How would they have been able to point out a common direction for the country? SV will reduce the oil industry, but will spend billions more on welfare measures. Red will take in 200,000 migrants in ten years. The Green Party will preserve the wolf, and the Centre Party will have zero vision for wolves, and otherwise they will take Norway out of the EEA. In the midst of this chaos of conflicting interests is the Workers' Party and sweats in the wind. The government has provided a revised budget that shows that things are going well in the country. All the concerns that are in this room are not in the real world. There are people working, there are they happy, and they support the policy of the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1170	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1175	It is not obvious that there is a discussion between individual parties in a government. What's interesting is that the representative of Greece has made it quite crystal clear that it is going to happen internally. In the face of today’s business this year, he told us that he has chiseled out throttles to prevent government disputes, among other things. not to discuss externally or to shoot against other government parties. After the last six months of open conflict and dispute in the government on asylum and immigration, climate, abortion, biotechnology and aid, Left towards the Progress Party, Left against the Christian People's Party, Christian People's Party against the Advance Party, all against everyone – how does the representative of Greece actually think that these rungs of his have worked so far?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1182	It is very nice to get credit for driving rules, especially if they work optimally. But there were four parties that together made driving rules, and I can assure the representative that there are many debates we are taking internally. Some of them come out to the public, and I really think that's okay as long as the government delivers on the important, namely ensuring employment, ensuring a better school and providing people with a health offer. The government, as I said, over six years, through twelve budgets, now with all four parties in it, has that we can stand together on the main steps. It may be a little unusual for the Workers' Party that debates come out to the public, but I have a little feeling that the Workers' Party, as one party, has managed to get into the situation that they still disagree on things and take the debates in public space.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1189	The representative of Greece said that the right-wing government solves ‘real problems’. Then I wonder what the right-hand government means by non-real problems. It would have been interesting to get an investigation. This has been a spring in the name of centralization. There are very many people around the country who are concerned about preparedness and not least about their ambulance services. An underfunded and accelerated reform of higher education has led to discussions on the centralisation of places of study. The courts are facing centralisation, and also the municipalities, we have to believe the Minister for Municipalities. At the same time, these developments continue to generate strong reactions. It was 10,000 outside the Storting in January that demonstrated against a hopeless predatory policy from the Right and the Advance Party where they do not understand the situation in the grazing industry. It was 7,000 who demonstrated in Namsos against shutting down the place of study in Namsos. There's been a bunch of guerrillas that say pretty clearly to the government. Is this a real and a real problem, or is it an unreal problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1198	In the case of maternity wards, I believe to remember that there was a former party leader in the Central Party who had a rather strong temperament when it was to be laid down. She had done what she could, she said, but she did not reach the government. This government has not shut down food departments, but there are threats, or claims, that it will happen, which is the reality. The previous government put down several local hospitals and several maternity wards. Then the centre party reacted, naturally, but they did not get a pass when they sat down at the table with Jens Stoltenberg, Jonas Gahr Støre and others. So I don't know if it's actually the real problem is that the previous government took more action in the health sector that was centralizing than what this government has done.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1207	The climate crisis is a threat that requires a massive change in society, both to live off and not least to live on. Under this government, greenhouse gas emissions continue to increase, and oil dependence is as high in the Norwegian economy as it was when the government joined six years ago. At the same time, the government has celebrated a record in new oil licences, while 40,000 young people strike for another future. We're very vulnerable to the big shift the world's going into. There should be concerns about the so-called ‘right’ food but, on the contrary, there is full gas for more oil activity and full gas in fossil energy research, and the climate risk closes Right’s eyes. It's an irresponsible economic policy, so I have to ask, has there been a funeral for the so-called "right" business party without the rest of us being invited?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1214	I spent quite a lot of my time talking about the growth of employment, the employment rate is rising, and I also spent a lot of time on the climate challenges and on being in the middle of a green transition. But unlike SV, who wants to tear away the foundations of the welfare state, the welfare society, by cutting off our desperate most profitable business, namely the oil and gas industry, we want to use the revenues generated by this industry and which gives us a pension fund, which provides us with current income, and which gives us the opportunity to create a green transition, invest in and develop sea winds, invest in renewable energy. The SV will remove the basis for creating this transformation by removing the oil business as soon as they can, and I don't think they're going to get through at the Workers' Party. It is possible that the Workers' Party has begun to shake a little bit of them too, but I do not think SV will get through with its unrealistic policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1219	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1225	Budgetary debates on the size of the budget tend to focus on growth in public expenditure and on priorities for good purposes within the budgetary framework. Even more important for both future well-being and the well-being of individuals and families is that we provide for growth in the private sector. It is the private sector and entrepreneurship across the country that ensure the foundation of our well-being and that helps us to use the whole country, both for industry and for residential areas. Norwegian districts are run, not by public subsidies and government jobs, but by a strong and dynamic private sector. Lower taxes mean that more of the company's profits can be used for innovation and new jobs in the individual enterprise. Several enterprises and new jobs give more people the opportunity to live on their own income, and lower taxes for most people provide better welfare and economic security for individuals and families. The revised budget confirms the functioning of the government’s value creation policy. Only in the first quarter of this year, 19 000 new enterprises were established in Norway. Not everyone survives, and that is exactly why it must be constantly stimulated for new start-ups. The registered unemployment rate has not been lower in 10 years. The proportion of the population employed increases, and the new jobs are created in the private sector. We will continue to strengthen the conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises in Norway, with fewer regulations and to facilitate the creation of more jobs and new ones by companies. If we are to maintain sustainable welfare systems in the future, we must also have a strict and controlled immigration policy, and we must have good integration for those who have valid residence. Good integration depends on active participation in Norwegian employment and in Norwegian society. Now we have control of immigration and the lowest asylum arrivals in 20 years. We can use the resources to integrate those who have already arrived and have been given valid residence. Now we also see the positive results by the fact that resident refugees get faster in work and into education. Freedom of choice is important, including for the elderly. In Denmark, almost the whole population is free to choose who will care, care and provide health care when you get old. In Sweden it is over 50 pst. who have the same freedom of choice, while in Norway there is only 5 pst. who have this possibility, and even this small freedom of choice will remove the left side, including the Workers' Party. So this marginal possibility that we have so far to influence our old age is going to remove the left-hand side. The Advancement Party wants older people to decide more in their own lives and to have the freedom of choice that all other adults have. Therefore, the Advance Party and the Government want far more people to have free choice of home services. The Progress Party will use all good forces in the public and private sectors to provide better care for the elderly. Elder care is not about the number of municipal employees, but about dignity, freedom of choice and enough capacity to help those who have real needs. Since 2013, we have built and developed the country with an efficient transportation network. Government contributions to investment and infrastructure development have increased by 75 pst. Since 2013, the maintenance run has been reduced, and we have established New Roads – the latest to strong opposition protests. Now we see the good results. The road carrier builds new highways at a high pace and with significantly lower costs than before. It shows that competition works and provides better and cheaper solutions. New roads are set to save 20 billion. kr on its portfolio, while we get faster expansion. This saves the drivers for significant amounts. The construction of full-value motorways is good for the social economy, good for road users and important for road safety. It also applies to the implementation of new E18 through Asker and Bærum. The railway reform is about providing train customers with a better and more adapted offer and getting more train transport for the money that is granted. So far, the use of competition shows formidable results. More than 8 billion. kr of taxpayers' money can be saved, and we get a better offer. History has shown that replacing monopolies with free competition is precisely a better and fairer offer for customers. Unfortunately, there are still some, among others. in the opposition, which defends monopolies and which will sacrifice consumers for animal and ill-ideological purposes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1242	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1247	Most political parties have now had national meetings in ours, and it has been interesting to see what has come to the fore, and on which the parties have wanted to focus after their national meetings. It has not been possible to avoid the suggestion of the now abdicated rebel leader in the Progress Party, Carl I. Hagen, to spend 100 billion dollars. There has been a lot of talk about reducing toll expenditure. Then it's interesting to ask the representative Limi: why do you vote against spending 150 million? kr to reduce the toll burden on a project in Hedmark that now has 90 pst. Tolling? Wouldn't it have been a good start on the 100-billion-dollars? kr to be used?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1252	That's because we mean 200 million. kr, which is our suggestion, is a much better start. We have to do what we can to reduce the toll burden, and we have negotiations to get good results. It is true that the national meetings of all parties adopt both party programmes and resolutions, and we use our decisions to influence policy in our direction. But in the revised national budget, it's 200 million. kr to be used to reduce the payment by drivers in the specific projects referred to by the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1257	It's interesting, the representative Limi is now informing us, because it's hard to see that there's some funding in the revised national budget of 200 million. kr. I have seen representatives of the Progress Party say that 200 million are now being allocated. kr to the project. Can the representative Limi then explain to me how this money has been allocated?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1262	It is true that in the government platform, the savings achieved in the development of road projects in Norway have been passed on to the drivers. In the projects mentioned, there are the New Roads which achieve great savings and which can, of course, redeploy their funds, so that they also contribute to reduced tolls while also being able to release funds to build even more roads. Both are then achieved, which is a major benefit to drivers in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1267	Because of unusually high electricity prices in winter, Statkraft makes a lot of money. They have earned a lot of money, and the government has seen in its revised national budget that you can take an extra large profit from Statkraft, because Norwegian consumers have paid a lot, and the government takes in the money. Then we would have believed in the Center Party – at least if we were thinking about how the Progress Party was a four-five years ago, or before they came into government – that they would be a little worried about those who actually paid the bill. But no, they are not, because the Progress Party has increased the electricity charges by more than 30 pst. since they entered the government. Over 30 pst. has increased electricity charges in Norway with Minister of Finance Siv Jensen. We would have thought, when they got such an extraordinary profit, that maybe the Progress Party for once should be a little worried about those who are going to pay the bill, but no. Then my question to Hans Andreas Limi: Why does the Progress Party not see that it would have been wise to use the extraordinary dividends to lower the fees, so that most people got a little lower power bill, not the sky-high bills they're used to now?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1276	In the last year the Senterpartiet was in government, electricity charges were increased. This year the electricity charge goes down. We've been through a period of high electricity prices. It has been compensated by an exceptional increase in housing aid. So we're trying to take into account what's happening in a market, and that it can be a big deal, but we also know that in an energy market you will have high prices for some periods and in other periods low prices. We've been running low electricity prices over a long period of time. In the situation we were in this winter, we had the advantage that we could import electricity both from Europe and from the Nordic countries, so we helped to compensate the situation that was stabilizing prices, which is now coming down.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1283	The government has streamlined the redundancy money. It is true that if you have a disease that lasts a long time before you know how it works when it's stabilized, one today doesn't get work clearance money for more than three years, anyway. Several types of diseases take a long time to be diagnosed. It can take up to eight years for some diseases. Having a come in this situation, is a desperate one to make it go around. One must do it to satisfy Nav's rules before a person gets social help. Does the representative think it's right that these people have to spend the confirmation money on their kids before they can get social assistance?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1290	The system of redundancy payments has never been intended to be a permanent scheme. It is a limited scheme for a short period of time. It's always been like that. Then the scheme has slipped out, and it has been absolutely necessary to make changes, as I also record that other parties have discussed, and to make some demands for a faster clarification during the period of time when you get the redundancy money, but also to facilitate that there are other benefits to take over when you no longer have the right to go on this scheme. We have also contributed to Nav being able to deal with those who are in a difficult situation, by strengthening the Nav case handling capacity, because the constraints there have been a challenge. I hope that it will help us to get a clean and proper treatment of those who are in a vulnerable and difficult situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1297	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1303	The revised national budget marks a sort of a sentence for the spring session in the Stortinget. If I'm going to give a little credit to the government, it's that this year, unlike previous years, I think this case is approaching exactly what it should be – a revision of the state budget. Our fiscal spokesman has explained a number of things related to the composition of the Central Party, and I want to address three areas that we have chosen to prioritise in this revised national budget. One is the emergency response and the appropriations related to ambulances and other emergency measures. There is a major concern around the country, perhaps especially on the ambulance side, because health professionals are creating new strategic plans, where they also choose both to remove ambulances, to convert daily ambulances into day ambulances and to reduce the number of ambulances. It is a challenge that very many people are concerned about, and it is strengthening the economic importance of preparedness. Also on the stand-by side in terms of fire and rescue, which is a municipal responsibility, and which is perhaps the readiness that feels closest to us, it is a concern for what is happening in the future. It is an area that deserves greater economic attention from the country as well. We are spending funds in several areas in terms of preparedness, but we are also investing funds that can help prevent centralisation in a number of areas. Let me mention two in particular. One is the courts in Norway. There is no doubt that the government is planning a so-called reform in the courts that can contribute to significant centralisation. It is worrying, and it is also completely unnecessary. The courts have many challenges. Some of them are the result of getting some sort of irregularity in the criminal chain, between the police and the courts, because so many changes have been made to the police, and some of the changes in the courts are linked to their being underfunded, not least on the issue of getting more digitisation into the courts. That's why the Central Party is also adding funds to the courts, and we think it would be very unfortunate if someone believed that the answer to the future courts is that once again a structural reform should be implemented. The Central Party does the same with regard to the higher education sector. We believe that the reform implemented in 2015 was underfunded and hastened, and the discussions we are now seeing about centralisation are a purely consequence of that. In order to avoid large-scale centralisation in higher education and the new universities, it is necessary to correct the imbalance in funding and to propose funds to the Centre. In addition, we propose a full funding of the standard in kindergarten. We believe that this will be very important for a reform that will take place from the harvest and where the actors in the kindergartens are very concerned, not least about how the small private kindergartens will cope with the transition to the standard of living. As the last case in the spring session, the revised national budget also summarises a lot of what we have been working on during the spring. This spring we were given a majority rule, and the votes in the Storting are a little more predictable than they have been. But the debates out there are equally strong, and it's interesting to see two features of the government in that way. One is that they sometimes let themselves be moved, even as a majority government, by it. They partially retreated when it came to the Veterinary Institute, and they have put the question of doing something about the hospital in Kristiansund. At the same time, we see that the majority government is cracking. The most obvious example of this is perhaps the new negotiations on tolls that government parties are about to go through six months after they have negotiated a government platform. Spring has been marked by popular uprisings around the country. I have mentioned that in the context of Nord University's proposals for centralisation, 7 000 met in Namsos. In January, 10,000 demonstrated outside of Stortinget. The Bunadsgerilja has firmly established itself as a voice against hospital closure and ambulance preparedness. It is good that we get these kinds of reactions and clear the corrective to the government's great belief in centralization in areas by region.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1337	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1342	The center party uses a lot of energy to create a negative narrative with its concerns about the development in District Norway, even though the reality is that it's going too far. People are optimistic and on the rise in primary industries and in key natural resource-based export industries, such as the United States and Japan. the forestry industry. Unemployment is record low, and there are, in fact, a number of professionals in a number of industries, such as the United Kingdom and the United Kingdom. in Trøndelag. The feedback from enterprises and those who work in the industries I have mentioned in corner stone holdings in many communities is: Do not touch the EEA Agreement. Nevertheless, the Centre Party will notify Norway. Why would the Center Party risk the value creation and job security of tens of thousands of people in District Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1349	Yes, there are a lot of angry people across the country, a lot of angry people in District Norway, and many of them now feel that the public service supply near them is collapsing around them, whether it's health, preparedness or other things. Many of them also feel that the will to discuss state intervention is small. Electricity supply to private industry in the Lierne, for example, there is no one in the government who will discuss. The innovation camp that they have built on Steinkjer will suddenly withdraw from the Nordic University, and the private business will remain. These are the challenges facing private business in the districts: there is no government and the public sector willing to invest in the districts. In the case of the EEA Agreement, it is quite right that the Centre Party will terminate it. There is a clause in our EEA Agreement that says that we are going to go right into a free trade agreement that will guarantee us customs freedom for everything, except processed fish.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1356	We have heard about all the good measures the Centre Party is going to spend the air money on, but there is not much love in these proposals. There are employees in the District Post and it is the districts that are to be hit by the fact that most of the revenue is to be taken through the 350-kroner limit, which is impossible. So I'm going to look at proposals for cuts here, and I'm going to have to ask the representative, because you're going to add up to $18 million. kr for children and families and for child protection services during this half year. You have to say no to spend over 9 million. kr for the purchase of private child protection services. It affects children who need these services. How does the Center Party think it makes sense to cut into that kind of service?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1363	It's true that we have some cuts. Our biggest cuts are linked to one of the points mentioned by the representative Hoksrud, among others. the 350-kroner limit. I understand that the representative Hoksrud thinks it is unrealistic, but this government was able to increase the sugar charge by 80 pst. in a month and a half, so the other parts are going to be able to make some changes, we too. The 350-kroner limit largely serves international online trade, as opposed to a sugar levy increase, affecting national workplaces. In the case of cuts in central bureaucracy and departments, we believe that this is necessary. This government is espousing both in terms of government and in terms of politicians, state secretaries, state councils, etc. Never have we had a bigger government and more bureaucrats in the departments than now.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1370	The central party's rhetoric about how bad things are going in the country is well known to everyone who reads newspapers and looks at the news. But luckily, this rhetoric doesn't go hand in hand when we look at the actual conditions. For the facts for Norway, low unemployment rates, business optimism and the record number of municipalities on the ROBEK list are low. This is just some of the evidence that developments are on the right track in Norway, both city and country. Under this government, the free income of the local government has increased by 31 billion. kr, whole 8.8 pst. The transport budget has increased by 75 pst. The question is whether the Central Party is willing to admit what the figures show is going well in the country – around the country – under the citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1377	I tried in my first reply to tell you that there are many angry people, that there is a lot in the private sector that goes very, very well, but they feel that much of what is about public services is being centralised – falling down around them. They have to go further in order to get good public services, it is more difficult to provide public services. That's a little bit of the problem, and the reason for that is almost one and only that this government has a totally insatiable belief in centralization. It has an insatiable belief that changing structures and centralising jobs in the public sector will solve everything strange. The centre party has no faith in it. We have faith in services close to people, and we also want private businesses to have easy and easy access to services close by. Otherwise, I've noticed that the representative Abid Q, too, has realized that it's important to travel around and talk a little bit to people in the districts. There might be a lot of reasons for that, but that makes sense, and he should do more of that. They're going to say clearly from what the state of things is.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1384	In its position on RNB, the centre party expressed concern that there were too few children born in Norway, which was 55,000 in 2018. It is a concern that we share in the Christian People's Party. But the centre part also stresses that while fertility is now down to a worrying 1.56, it was up to 1.8 to 2.0 while the red-greens crashed. The setting says to read that ‘even after the Christian People’s Party joined the government, there is room for action to meet these very serious developments’. Let me add: as most people probably understand, the Christian People's Party needs at least nine months to produce fruitful results after its entry into the government, and we've only reached the 5th month. I want to ask the Central Party what measures they put in when they ran the country, and what measures they're going to put in now to get the fertility rate up to a higher level than the worrying day.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1391	Firstly, it is good to note that both the Christian People's Party, the Senter Party and the Prime Minister are concerned about low birth rates, and that this is a challenge that needs to be addressed in many areas. I can agree that as the note is designed, it is perhaps a bit of a heavy responsibility we put on the Christian People's Party if we believe that the Christian People's Party since its entry into the government six months ago should have solved that problem. I think there's a common problem that several of us have to work together for a longer time.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1399	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1404	We are dealing with this budgetary audit in a situation where the public unrest in our country is increasing. Two of the things that concern and engage many are the increasing inequality in power and wealth and the climate crisis. I think a lot of that is because people see that in these areas there is a policy in Norway today that takes too much account of the few at the top, and too little consideration for the many. That's what happens when, for example, oil directors are allowed to control climate and oil policy: when 90 new blocks are published to oil directors in a situation where we know that a serious approach to the climate crisis will mean that much of this oil will never be mined. That's what happens when it's done so little to control our business into renewable investments rather than in fossils. It is a policy for the few at the top, and not for the many, who are run when the tax system is rigged for the richest, when working life is changed so that it becomes free of rent and temporaryity, when the government has the doors wide open to profit in well-being, or when those who have at least in Norway are invited to contribute to the financing of the tax havens to the richest through a long, long range of non-social cuts that affect everything from chroniclers through increased self-esteems, single parents who have been cut off from their social benefits, and without taking care of all the people who are now being pulled out of the labour settlement system, etc. SV stands for the opposite policy. We stand for a policy that is for the many, not for the few. It means putting the future first, not contamination. Now we are in a situation where emissions are rising again in Norway, despite the desperate need for time to avert the climate crisis. SV has proposed this spring that the Storting should take responsibility and declare that the climate crisis is what it is: a national emergency situation that must trigger the necessary measures. We have proposed to stop new oil exploration, and we have proposed that Norway, in the climate agreement with the EU, should abandon the possibility to buy freely, so that we do a real cut to take responsibility for the climate and develop our economy. We stand for a policy that prioritises people, not markets. That's the opposite of what we've seen through the government's railway reform, where belief in the market is so blind that we've got a structure in the railroad that people just laugh at, with more and more companies, 50 directors and more and more million wages, but not what people need: faster trains that go more often. I saw earlier in the spring that the Right said that this municipal election would be a campaign against the policy of the radical left to stop privatisation and profit. It's a battle of values we're very ready for. It is time to stop profit and privatisation in welfare, both the government stands for, and the local right-wing politician stands for. The opposite is to bet on people, not to bet on markets, to see that well-being gets better if we invest in increased staffing, if we make sure full-time is the rule around in welfare instead of part-time, and if we put our trust in over-control testing and market thinking. It is a policy for the many, not for the few. Finally, let me just briefly comment on what the representative of Greece said in his statement about the chaos. I think it is important to commend politically, and it is clear that in a situation where the government sits almost daily in negotiations, where there is a possible government crisis every week, it is courageous, outstanding political courage to launch a strategy where the opposition is to be hanged out as chaos. I think the Right should get points for that; it's a bold strategy. But the reality, where government parties don't have time to fight election because they're so busy arguing with each other, shows that the chaos is in power in Norway, in government, right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1421	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1426	Policy for the many, says SV's representative. Then I took the position and lightened a little bit in what they write about nutrition, and I don't think the many hundreds of thousands whose jobs are at stake agree that it's a policy for the many. The only thing about nourishment from SV in the setting is that you are happy that money is given to a nuclear power plant, that money is given to compensate for fur animals, and that you are opposed to the sale of Staur Farm. So then I went to the party program instead, where it says that you want to phase out oil and gas and replace it with jobs where you need seven workers for each job that disappears, and that you want to scrap the EEA Agreement, and so send a torpedo into Norwegian exports. SV will ruin Norwegian business. The only thing we have to live on is public appropriations and state farms, if you read what's so far printed and written. So the question to the representative is, what are we going to live on?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1433	All the rhetoric of the Right cannot hide that the Right is unable to address the great climate challenge we are facing. It does not only mean that the Right has a bad climate policy, but also that the Right has a very irresponsible economic policy and industrial policy. The only responsible business policy is the one that takes the climate challenge seriously. The government's policy today is that we should be looking for more and more oil, which, if we take climate science seriously, will not be able to be taken up because it has already been found more fossil energy than what can be burned, if we are to achieve the climate goals. That means that the government with open eyes is leading a policy to invest a lot of money today in things we can't enjoy in the future. Our economic policy is the only realistic one. We say that we need to take action now to prevent mass unemployment and industrial death, among other things. in the part of the country I represent, which is very dependent on the oil. The solution to that is not more oil dependence, but that we are starting the transition. It is we who are responsible for the industrial policy, and the right who is responsible for the irresponsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1444	I would like to understand that it is the red-green and SV who are responsible for the economic policy. In all rhetoric over the last few years, the Socialist Left has spent a great deal of time saying that there are no economic theories or economists confirming that the industrial policy that this government is pursuing has any effect. Now it's like this that there's record low unemployment, and the employment rate is increasing, despite an ageing population and increasing immigration, so I really want to recommend the representative Lightbaking instead of burying his nose in economic theories, lifting his eyes and looking around, and seeing that Norway is going there. This is what is fasitistic about industrial policy. And the biggest difference is between those who have a job to go to, who have a reason to set on alarm in the morning, and those who don't have a reason, because they have no job to go to. So the question is, will increased taxes, for which SV is for, create even more jobs and even more growth? I also repeat the question from the previous article: What are we going to live on from?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1453	What we've been discussing about economic theory is whether the government has evidence of its policy of giving increasingly large tax havens to the rich. And we're going to confirm every harvest when the budget comes, that it doesn't have the government. For it has still not been able to demonstrate that the great tax gifts to the rich, as they are theoretically supposed to, age down to everyone else and create jobs and growth. I believe, on the contrary, that there is a little efficient way to spend money, and that we could create more impact in terms of jobs and economic development if the community had spent that money. Then I react when the government parties in all the posts today say that Norway is going, so it laughs. I think there are a lot of people who hear that, who ask, well, am I not part of Norway? – all those who have been charged the tax havens, all those who have been given the social cuts that I mentioned, all those who fear centralisation and the reduction of the welfare offer in the districts. The government is running a Norway that is obviously not for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1460	We're not saying Norway is going to laugh, we're saying Norway is going to go like that, because that's what it's called. It is interesting when the representative says that the economic policy of the Socialist Left will have more impact. In the last six years, the overall level of taxation in Norway has been reduced by 25 billion. kr for companies and for individuals. There is a record low unemployment rate, and the employment rate is rising. Is the representative saying that if we now introduce $25 million? In the case of increased taxes and taxes, will there be an even greater increase in employment and will the rate of employment increase even faster?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1469	Yes, the government does not have any evidence to say that it is because of the government’s tax policy that Norwegian industry is doing well – not finding coatings. And that's how Norway has one of the world's most productive economies despite the fact that we've historically had a high tax level for those who have the most. I even think that's because of it, because an economy with small differences and a well-being economy is effective. It makes sure that we use everyone's resources, it can invest in research, education and competence, and it can make sure that there are security networks that allow you to bet. The economic ideology of the Right Side has failed, and we're going to be happy that the Right has not ruled Norway for 50 years, because then Norway would have been a society with a much less productive economy than today. You can do enough damage in six years – we'll make sure it stops at eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1476	SV often talks about the importance of having a social profile in the tax system. Since SV votes in favour of almost all proposals for the introduction or increase of property taxes locally, I wonder if SV's manager can explain the social profile of property taxes, which we know is the hardest for those who have the least. Perhaps the representative can also explain why SV in the municipalities votes against when the Progress Party proposes bottom-up deductions, which would have just protected those who have the least.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1481	First of all, I record that in many municipalities property taxes are introduced because this government is pursuing such a tight policy towards the municipalities, and that the foremost property tax king of all is a Progress Party rapporteur at Hyler, according to newspaper headlines this week. The representative says that we know that property taxes affect those who have the least – that is wrong. It's just to look at the list of lawsuits about who is going to sue the Municipality of Oslo because of the property tax. There are few people with block apartments in the Grorud valley because they usually come out of the property tax, but there are very many from the city and the country's absolute economic elite. The truth is that we need a tax system that shifts more taxes from work to over to property, because the right-hand side's absolute reluctance to all forms of property taxation is turning the Norwegian economy towards more property speculation instead of what creates jobs and growth for the future. That's why we actually need to tax property, but we need it within a fair tax system, unlike the system the government has rigged.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1491	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1496	A sustainable welfare society depends on the ability of us to convert the Norwegian economy, create growth and more jobs, and the use of oil money must be directed primarily towards the tasks the surplus was intended to play a central role in relation to. As was intended when the rule of action came into effect during the Bondevik II administration, it was intended primarily for investment in knowledge and infrastructure. It helps to strengthen and secure our future well-being, without creating an overheated economy. Growth is strong in the Norwegian economy, more and more people come to work, and the registered unemployment rate has not been lower in ten years. The government has adapted the use of public money to the situation in the economy, in line with the rule of action. We see that economic policy is working. Four out of five jobs are now created in the private sector, and the sustainability of the welfare community is strengthened. This is a development that improves the competitiveness of Norwegian enterprises and contributes to increased activity in Norwegian business in the future. It is gratifying that this increase is not concentrated only on certain parts of Norway, but can occur throughout the country. Demand for labour has increased and unemployment has decreased. This is a development we are pleased to also contribute to the reduction of regional disparities. In the last year, the proportion of the working-age population employed has increased after several years of decline. The revised national budget pursues a policy that works. In the 2019 budget, the government continued to invest in transport, research and education as key areas. These are bets that support under the competitiveness and give us more legs to stand on in the future. Revised national budget is the first budget where the Christian People's Party is not only a budgetary agreement partner with the government of Solberg, but is itself part of the government. For the Christian People's Party, this is about ensuring the permeability of important areas such as family, children and people who fall outside, but also of a value creation that can provide the basis for sustainable development. The Christian People's Party wants to strengthen the important communities and build society from below, by spreading power and giving individuals, families and communities the opportunity to govern their own lives and to shape their own future. Families and individuals need to be allowed to take responsibility for their tasks in a way that ensures that they can control their own future – rather than be governed by the state. A bet area for the Christian People's Party, for which we have been passed through in the budget for the current year, and for which the government has announced to continue next year, is the investment of more teachers in school – the teacher's norm. The initiative has already resulted in a higher teacher's density. In this school year, there are a total of 1,045 more year-olds for teaching compared to the previous school year, and there are 3,129 more year-olds since the school year 2014–2015. The maximum increase in teacher’s years is between 1 and 4. There has been a decrease in the number of pupils per teacher, but also in the middle and young. Fewer students per teacher will be more able to see each individual student and will be able to take appropriate action at an earlier stage. This is primarily a victory for the individual student and a policy that the Christian People's Party has helped to change by joining the government. The family economy has also been strengthened by increased child-responsiveness, and now the leisure card is being rolled out into the first two municipalities – Arendal and Vadsø. It is a scheme that applies to all families with children aged 6 to 18 years and helps to give more children the opportunity to participate in meaningful leisure activities, a targeted effort that contributes to integration and prevents social exclusion. The 50-million scheme. kr extra for broadband expansion in addition to the 200 million. kr, which was already in the 2019 budget, creates new communication opportunities for groups across the country. In order to take the whole country into use, broadband deployment is a good and absolutely necessary grip. New science centres also see the light of the day in revised national budgets, in the Atlantic Park and at Mo. There are important knowledge centres that help to link business, school and technology development in a good way. Next year, we will mark the 75th anniversary of the end of World War II in Norway. As a national monument to war, the ‘Hestman’ is important to the whole country, far beyond Agder – not least to all the ropes of war and their families, who did not experience the recognition they deserved after the war. I am pleased and proud that this important memorial now has the means to become clear all over the Norwegian coast in the anniversary year.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1517	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1522	The Solberg government has given the thousands with the highest value of 602 kroner per day in real estate taxes. Those who have at least before have received a maximum of 10 cents of the day. Politics works. Does the representative of Gruvan agree that this increases the differences?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1527	This government has led a tax policy that has contributed to more people paying less taxes today than has been the case in the past. In addition, we have also helped to balance differences through important measures, as we also see in this revised national budget, by providing more opportunities for owning a home. We propose an extraordinary investment of 118 million. for disadvantaged children, and the housing allowance is increased. We implement important measures that also contribute to cohesion in ways other than taxation – free core time for two-year-olds, increased child welfare, increased disposable benefits, etc. Tax and distribution policies must be seen in the context of a series of measures, and we believe that we are helping to make everyday life easier for more people through the policies we conduct.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1532	Yes, it must be seen in context. Three out of ten households have received poorer advice under the government of Solberg. We have 100,000 poor children, while the right-wing government has prioritised giving the very richest 8 billion. kr in tax cuts. The last time that unfair cuts were involved was the redundancy payments. Politics works. The differences are increasing under the government of Solberg, so I ask again: does the representative of Gruvan agree that it is alarming that the differences in Norway are increasing?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1537	The Christian People's Party and the government want to pursue a policy that can contribute to a simpler and better everyday life for everyone. We are concerned that 100,000 children live in poor families. That is why we are also putting in place measures to address these challenges through, for example: increasing child welfare, which is a very important targeted measure, but also through measures such as free core time, increased housing support, increased grants for holiday, leisure and other bets, especially in vulnerable urban areas. We focus on the fact that everyone, including those groups that we know are struggling in our society, should be able to benefit and enjoy the measures that the government is now putting in, and we have a number of such measures that we are happy to present in the context of the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1542	The representative Gruvan pointed out that the Christian People's Party is committed to the many who are struggling in Norwegian society. An important task for the care of people in Norway is to have an inclusive working life in which people can participate based on their situation. We have different types of arrangements that allow us to meet their needs in a situation where participation in ordinary working life is difficult for either a short or a long time. The work clearance system has been tightened up. It makes sense that an attempt to get people back to work as quickly as possible, at the same time, is part of complex and complex health challenges that also develop over time. Therefore, the Centre Party has submitted a proposal that there should be a derogation from the three-year rule for persons who have not been finally declared medical. Will the Christian People's Party support such a proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1549	I share the view of the representative, Mr Geelsvik, that arrangements such as redundancy benefits need a delimitation, so that people do not live in an unexplained situation over a long period of time. There is also the background to a proposal on the table to reduce the scheme from four to three years. We see that there is a need to put in place additional measures, so that people who are not able to clarify their situation so quickly, do not have a difficult situation to cope with and have enough for their lives. Therefore, additional funds have been put into this revised budget for speeding up clarifications. We are now waiting for an evaluation of this mechanism, and we will see if there are situations that should be captured through several exceptional arrangements when that evaluation comes to the table. We're looking forward to getting a better picture of how the new system works at that time.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1556	I want to pick up something that has already been mentioned this afternoon, but which I still have not fully understood, namely the unsocial cuts for those who have the least – which we are used to seeing from the government, but at least I had hoped that the Christian People's Party would not support when they joined the government. The whole of Norway was told that the choice of whether the Christian People's Party was going to go into government or not was not easy to take, so one would think that when it first became the decision it was, the implementation would be a little bit larger. But what this government delivers to the revised national budget today does not solve anything for the more and more children of poor families, for the recipients of redundancy payments or for others who had needed it. Was it worth going into government?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1561	This government has several offensive bets with a very good social profile, which is clearly reflected in the revised budget. Owning a home we know is important to all families. We want to go in with an extraordinary bet of over 100 million. to provide extra assistance to disadvantaged families of children. It will help almost 500 families to get their own home. We will strengthen the housing aid from 1 July this year by 66 million. kr. It will help to help 18 000 families with children to get NOK 8 000 more in housing every year. We are also committed to ensuring that arrangements become applicable to everyone. Therefore, free core time for two-year-olds in kindergarten is now introduced. We are increasing child welfare, and we are planning to further increase child welfare – an important poverty-targeted response – increasing one-off support and increasing housing support. Here are a lot of measures that we think are just helping the group that the representative is addressing.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1569	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1574	When a student studies the budgets of this government, including the revised budget from this year on, there is little doubt that it will be a while since 2013, when the representatives from the Right with a very high cigarette drive talk about getting rid of overcrowding policies, streamlining public money use and cutting red tape. Since then, one has spent well over a thousand billion oil billions without anything big left, not a big social reform, no savings reform. The flat cheese dressing in the public sector is not a reform. It's latency that frame flat and arbitrary. The bureaucracy is growing, and the changes are waiting. There is no government that has spent the same amount of oil money covering missing income in the budget. Now every six dollars of the state budget is funded by the oil fund, and I believe that the government party is trying to criticize the Labour Party for not being under the government party on oil money. It's quite healthy, and it's probably pleasantly irresponsible, but let's not doubt the following: It's the government that's responsible. It's the government that has the initiative. It is their budget that we are revising and discussing today, although the Right and the Progress Party would prefer to discuss our budget. It's the government that sees the chalk line and defines the action space with over 20,000 bureaucrats available all year round to help out with it. It is now clear that the slowdown in the use of oil money must start earlier than expected. Norwegian policy-makers for years to come must give far greater priority than envisaged. There will be bigger tasks with less money because of a government that has crushed the piggyback to avoid being killed. At the same time, Community revenue has been reduced by a steady cut in taxes, which still has no proven effect on neither employment nor investment. The gap between income and expenditure is increasing, and in addition, the government is implementing unsocial, unfair cuts that affect ordinary peoples and increases the differences in power and wealth in Norway. Earlier this year, the most eye-catching thing came, which means that the government party should really go a little quiet when it comes to criticising the economic policy of the opposition. For the first time since the rule of action was introduced, he was tried, not by the opposition, but by the government, and by the Prime Minister himself, and in the lead, the party would prefer to throw the whole rule of action on the scrapheap. For the first time, it was opened to cover billions of costs below the line, i.e. with funds from the oil fund, but outside the rule of action. For the time being, and I emphasise for the time being, this has been put on ice after massive protest and resistance, but we have no guarantee of what the government will find out when the negotiations are getting even tougher in the future. There are many countries that have dark experience of what happens when one gives in to creative circumvention attempts or unrealistic, over-optimistic budgeting. As a midwife, there's a genetically engineered understanding that a crown can be used once and only once. The same understanding does not exist with government parties. It is not wise to prioritize and therefore push the obligations ahead and send the bill to future generations, because there is no free money. Therefore, a government must budget realistically. Therefore, a government must keep the economy in order. In that case, all objectives financed by the State must also be included in the State budget. It's awkward, but it's a necessary discipline for us to be able to meet more difficult times in the future, control government finances and build up under the growth forces of the economy. There's little doubt that the economic upturn we're now seeing is crazy. There are dark clouds in the horizon, although the descent from four years back has turned. We must be banned in tough times, too, and then we must have something to dry on. Therefore, money usage can no longer be the same as money. In order to spend money in bad times, a savings must be made in good times. There's a reason it's called countercyclical policy. All speech points in the world at government press conferences do little to help when they are not followed up by action. The International Monetary Fund is now very clear in its advice to Norway: now we need to address the long-term challenges. But it seemed impossible with a coalition government waving further, short-sighted from one budget debate to the next. My claim is that there is no longer a party on the right in the political landscape that can guarantee a responsible economic policy. In exchange for continued government, the Right has sold the role of a responsible governing party. This government is going to be standing as the most expensive coalition government in history, and Erna Solberg as the prime minister who was just busy being sittin', literally for every prize.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1597	After hearing the opposition so far in this debate, with a negative description of the reality of the situation around the country — a rhetoric about excessive use of money and increasing disparities — it is worth recalling that Norway has been identified as the world’s best country to live in. We are that country in the world with the smallest differences, an important value that the government will also continue. For things are going very well in the Norwegian economy. Unemployment is record low, employment is increasing throughout the country and in all sectors. Employment has increased by 109 000 since 2016. Only in the last year have almost 46,000 more come to work. Employment growth has not been higher in seven years. It in itself further reduces differences, because the greatest difference is between those in employment and those outside. The number of jobs is increasing throughout the country and in all sectors. AKU unemployment has fallen by 1.3 percentage points since the fall in oil prices in 2016. The registered unemployment rate in Norway is down to 2.1 pst. according to Nav. Now we have to spend the good time including more in the working life. I hope companies that lack people follow the Prime Minister's call to call Nav before they call Poland. There is strong growth in the economy, and growth is higher than the trend growth. The competitiveness of enterprises has been significantly enhanced, including: as a result of low exchange rates, lower taxes and responsible remuneration. We need ten years back in time to find the corresponding record high level of investment in business. In the first three months of the year, we have 19 000 new businesses. Four out of five new jobs are created in the private sector. That's good. This is a sign of optimism and that the policy of the government works well. It strengthens competitiveness and secures jobs. Although interest rates are rising, the increase is moderate. A real wage growth and a positive view of the future are expected to give rise. In order to limit the risk posed by the high degree of indebtedness of households to financial stability, the government has made significant restrictions on bank lending practices. Further tightening will occur if the measures are not effective. In a short time, the debt register will be an important tool to protect against further growth in debt levels. In an upturn, public spending is important, and we need to safeguard interest rates and ensure a stable exchange rate. The IMF supports the government’s responsible economic policy and refers to Norway as a model use in monetary policy and financial policy. And it's still like this after the revised national budget of the year. The government continues a policy that facilitates continued growth, conversion and green writing. Keeping up a tight line in money use in the future and building buffers to meet future setbacks and demographic changes in the population is demanding, but absolutely necessary if we are to avoid getting into a situation later where we need to tighten up. The oil industry has produced enormous returns and positive ring-effects for Norway. The value of the oil fund is on a staggering 9000 billion. kr. But it does not have to be a sleeping cushion, because we know that the income from that industry will not be the powerful impulse of the Norwegian economy in the future as it has done. Still, a lot of people are concerned about how we're going to distribute the money, and less of how we can create more values. A responsible use of oil money supports investments in future competitiveness and necessary transformations into the Norwegian economy. The competitiveness of enterprises, the capacity for innovation and entrepreneurship will be crucial for the growth of new industries and for the Norwegian economy to have more momentum in the future. We will help create even more jobs in the private sector, jobs that through taxes and taxes will pay for the well-being that we want all the Nordics to have. This is why we focus on skills, on qualifying more and including more – getting more out of work. The main priorities of the budget in the areas of taxation, knowledge, transport, health and a sound local economy are established. In addition, we increase the framework for police, defence, care for the elderly, county roads and climate action. We are strengthening well-being and helping to continue to create more profitable jobs across the country. At the same time, we are equiping ourselves for the future by making Norway greener and the welfare society more sustainable.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1616	With the revised budget, we are going even further in the right direction to make the nation better for our citizens and for our business. Even though the major steps are taken in the ordinary budgetary procedures, we are also doing a number of good things in the revised budget. The main task of the government is to make sure that we get more businesses, which create more jobs, so that more people get jobs to go to. Then we have to keep looking at how we can achieve a tax system and a tax level that can compete with the country around us. Of course, one can choose to have a higher level of taxation than other countries, but the risk is that capital that could have been used to create new jobs in Norway is used instead in other countries. Then we're going to make sure that people decide more about their own everyday life and more about their own wallet. 25 B.C.E. Tax relief is the result so far – NOK 11 000 for an average family – and we have reduced the wealth tax, which is primarily a tax relief for Norwegian residents living in Norway and creating jobs here. When the Workers' Party or the Center party is out to tell robber stories about tax laws to the rich, they forget to tell them that the property tax is a tax that only affects Norwegian-owned companies. Perhaps today the Center Party will tell us why it is so important to let foreign business owners pay so much less in tax than Norwegian business owners. I can agree that the amount of NOK 11 000 less in taxes for a normal family, which they pay less today than they did under the red-green, should have been higher. Of course, the Progress Party will continue to work to ensure that ordinary people retain more of their income. The big difference between this government and a government with the Workers' Party and the Center Party is that they will apply the same family NOK 11 000 more in taxes per year. But instead of talking about high tax bills that they would have given the Norwegian people, they spend time criticising the government, and perhaps preferably the Advance Party, for fees or for tolls. In winter, it was the electricity price. Now it's more than halved, so the Center Party is talking a little bit less about it today. But everyone knows that much would have changed if the Progress Party had over 50 pst. digestion. No, we wouldn't have financed road construction with tolls, because we view road investment as something that gives growth and value creation, which means that more people get work, that new businesses can be established all over the country, and that people can live where they want to live. But we don't have 50 pst. digestion. Yes, that's a good thing, but we've managed to do something really great in the road sector; we've had an impact on establishing New Vejer AS – a competitor of the State Road Service, and now building roads faster and cheaper than it was done before. Competition works. We build more roads than ever before across the country. We maintain more roads than we have ever done before. We're approaching a double in what we're doing. Kilometers per kilometer with new road are built with the Progress Party in government. For the first time in history, we use more on the road than what the drivers pay in terms of car charges and tolls. We've swept the red-green out of, I'd almost said, the roadway. The one-off fee has been greatly reduced. The re-registration fee has been greatly reduced. The car park is being renewed. The cars are getting safer, and they are becoming more environmentally friendly. The roads are being renewed. People have for the first time a government that takes the car seriously, which understands that people outside Ring 2 have different challenges than people in the center of Oslo. But I understand, of course, the need for the opposition to talk down on everything the government gets, and that they want to tell robber stories instead of the real stories, such as that we are now removing VAT on electronic journals and books, or that we are reducing the alcohol charge for small producers of pages, etc., or that we are reducing the one-off fee on motorcycles, or that we are removing the one-off fee entirely on cars over 20 years old, which makes it more reasonable for the many who have great older cars like hobby and passion. It may not be the biggest things I mention, but people's everyday lives aren't just about big things, people's lives are mostly about everyday life -- little things that are important, and that matter. As long as the Progress Party sits in government, the country will have a government that will have both the power to act to do something about the big challenges, and that is on people's side and does something with little everyday things that others like to spend time laughing – because it's important, and because it means something to be the party to people most.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1637	A budgetary debate is a debate on priorities. What you choose to spend money on shows what the parties think is important. On Tuesday, in this hall, the government parties said no to school food for all students. Last night, at the NRK, the Right turned down cheaper and free SFOs for the first class. In the revised national budget, the government said no to several places of study. With this, the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party say no to policies that help balance differences between children, no to make life easier for many families and no to give more opportunity to study and give working life the skills needed. The priority of the working party is different. We will fight differences and create stronger communities. Today, one in seven students goes to school without a lunch. Every sixth grader doesn't eat lunch. We already know to a large extent who these students are. They come from home with little time and bad advice, i.e. with little resources. Research in the school food system shows that it is precisely those students who have the greatest benefit from having a single meal at school. The working party will provide all students with a healthy, Norwegian meal at school. It balances differences, it gives better learning, and it gives community. That is why the Labour Party prioritises school food for everyone. Today, there are 100,000 children who do not go to SFO or activity school. Many opt out of the school - leisure system, simply because the family cannot afford it. This government has been quiet since 2013 and has seen that the school leisure system has become more expensive year after year. In some municipalities it now costs parents more than NOK 3000 a month to send the children to SFO. Here we're talking about children in 1st to 4th grade who don't get to participate in the game, the learning and the community that SFO or AKS have, and there might be a lot of people among those who had the greatest pleasure and benefit from a good SFO offer. We want to raise the quality and make sure that everyone gets the opportunity to participate in the community of SFOs. This is why the Workers' Party prioritises school leisure arrangements for all. We now see across the country a major shortage of teachers, lack of nurses and lack of people with ICT skills. In 2017, Norway lacked 1,000 primary school teachers, and the shortage is increasing year by year. Already today Norway lacks 6 000 nurses, according to Nav, and the need will only increase in the years to come. The paradox is that the government at the same time leaves thousands of qualified applicants in line. It's not a luxury problem, it's a social problem, because it means that many people are denied the opportunity to take education, and society does not get the skills we need. This is why the Workers' Party has proposed several places of study in our alternative state budgets, with particular emphasis on professions that are important for the welfare state. In recent months there has been a major debate on the reorganisation of North University, which is in a challenging situation. The local concern is that services that are important for the whole region are weakened. Unfortunately, the government has refused to give the university more places to study. The Labour Party considers, however, that it would have given the university the opportunity to develop its education services, in particular in order to meet the region’s competence needs in the field of health and teacher training. This is why the Workers' Party prioritises several study places. I have to say that the solution to the government is quite liberatingly honest when discussing school food, school leisure arrangements or study places. Parents are going to get better, schools are going to get better, universities are going to get better, and municipalities must at least get stronger – while government, fortunately, is getting free. Everyone else has to take responsibility. That's not the reality. A child with parents in custody does not get food just by asking their parents to tighten up. The responsibility that many parents cannot afford the SFO is not just with the family, and it is the government's job to give universities more places to study and municipalities an economy to increase the quality of school. The working party will spend the large amount of money on these tasks: raising the quality, providing all children with a healthy, Norwegian meal at school, giving more children the opportunity to participate in the SFO community and providing more places of study to ensure the necessary competence for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1656	Today we are discussing a revised budget based on a good government budget that the four parties arrived at last year. The main priorities in tax, knowledge, transport, health and increased transfers to municipalities are fixed. Today, when we round this session in Stortinget and look forward to a local election, we take a break with the certainty that unemployment is falling, that growth is rising, and that more jobs are being created. It is good for the citizens and our national economy – an economy that is solid and in good development. There is growth across the country, and investments in mainland businesses have been no greater than before the financial crisis. An important difference, on the other hand, as we see in the post-crisis period compared to the post-crisis period, is that the share of growth in private jobs is now greater than at the time. Now four out of five jobs are created in the private sector. We politicians don't have much of the credit for this, on the contrary. It is the driving capable people and businesses across the country that have. Politicians have the task of ensuring that those who want to do something in Norway face fewer obstacles on their way. The creative power must be released, and there must be room for growth and development without excessive tax bills, complicated legislation and an impossible bureaucracy to deal with. This is a continuous task, and the government is not in the target, but the efforts made by today's majority are formidable – at first, with the government's time-twenty project, where employees in and users of the public sector could report unnecessary forms or rules that could have been removed or simplified, and now, with the Minister of Industry's full review of the State Instrument, so that several companies can easily take part in the arrangements put on the table by the State to convert the Norwegian economy and growth. Until now, the government has simplified to an estimated value of 15 billion. kr for business. I notice that the Labour Party and the Center Party today are overcoming each other in what is going to remove the 350-kroner limit for foreign online commerce. While the government implements this change in a thorough and sound manner, in which we investigate and then implement, the situation is quite different in the two largest opposition parties in their search for budgetary containment. The Labour Party will make this change already on 1 September, the Center Party will overwhelm them and take it from 1 August. But not only will they do this without proper processing, they don't even agree on what it will mean for containment. The Labour Party believes in its alternative budget that four months will be 470 million. kr, the center party believes that five months will give a little over one billion. So every month, the Workers' Party believes that the removal will be $117 million. kr, while the Senterpartet is worth 205 million. kr. Fair budgeting should probably also be the starting point for all parties in the financial committee, and I think in this way SV does better in this matter. To help strengthen Europe by reducing social and economic inequalities does not interest the Centre much. The fact that the EEA funds have provided more than a thousand organisations over the previous two years with the opportunity to promote democracy and human rights in Europe does not impress the Centre. No – nor the fact that almost 270,000 people have received assistance or legal assistance is enough for the Centre Party to think: maybe we are not in favour of the EEA Agreement, but this money is the money well spent for people who need it. Let me give you an example: tomorrow we celebrate Pride right outside the Stortinget. Thanks to approx. One million. from the EEA funds, a LHBT organisation called the Legebira in Slovenia could identify 72 national laws that discriminated against homosexuals. And after several years of counter-work, the Slovenian Parliament in 2017 decided that homophiles were granted almost equal rights to heterophiles. This is one of many examples of what these means go to. So when the Center Party leader Trygve Battle Force Vedum in the media with a pen stroke cutter 537 million. NOK in the EEA funds that have actually been used, I want the Chamber to know that there are such projects the Centre Party believes is less valuable than cutting the equivalent of 1 ear in the electricity charge from 1 January this year. Of the three EEA-sceptic parties in this Chamber, the Central Party is all alone in taking away from civil society in Europe the money they need to make the world and Europe a better place.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1671	I want to start with two quotes: ‘High trust has economic value’ and ‘Small differences between people can contribute to a high level of trust — between people and between people and authorities. This has economic value. High trust reduces the need for rules and control procedures, facilitates negotiations and facilitates migration.’ These quotes are from the 2018 Perspective Report. They could have been from the Workers' Party's Perspective Report, but they're from the NHO's Perspective Report. The Labour Party is in agreement, and we think that increasing differences threatens basic values in Norway, such as high trust, relatively high and even wages, and our ability to meet the changes in the future. The economic differences are increasing in Norway, measured both in income and in wealth. The government's revision of the budget does not help to reduce these differences either. Wages until the lowest wages stand still, while the rich both tend more and increase their wealth more. It is clear that when they with the most wealth now have received 602 kroner of the day in property taxes, while with the least wealth they have got 10 kroner of the day, max, and then the differences and trusts increase. To the representative Johnsen: with the Labour Party, those who claim NOK 750 000 or less would receive about the same tax as today, or less. I'm from the industrial community, Høanger, and I have to raise taxes on works and use. The mother of the root! This alone has resulted in many tens of millions less in income for the municipalities, resources that went to school, health and the elderly, a tax that foreign companies such as Alcoa, Elkem and everyone else paid. The current party leaders of the Christian People's Party stood out in the lawn here and held the appeal against removing this treasure. It stood for a few days until they negotiated him away. Then the loss of income would be compensated. It also stood for a few days before it was negotiated away. So it would be compensated by up to 500 million. kr, as the government in its wisdom said the loss of income would become. Today the fasitite is leading: 730 million. kr in the loss of income. In RNB, only 68 pst. compensated for the loss of income. There is a great deal of lack of fulfillment of the promise, and a lot is missing before full compensation. The 350-kroner limit is a major competitive disadvantage for Norwegian companies. He's strange, the love we have in the hall today that the government has for foreign businesses. The property tax that I just mentioned that both foreign and Norwegian companies paid for work and use is gone, and the government party had to be forced by the majority to remove the 350-kroner limit, which subsidized just foreign companies. In addition, long-term, far-reaching framework conditions have gained a whole new meaning under the government of Solberg. VAT on hotels, ski facilities, cinema and culture has been increased twice during the night. New charges have also come in late night hours, such as air fare and bag tax – and the sugar charge that was increased monthly. Support for moving goods from road to sea is gone; it's moved to the railway, it's said. One thing is lacking foresight, another is that the green conversion was not so very important anyway. It's strange to listen to the government parties here today that don't talk about government policy, but only about their own policies they've been implemented for. The left is talking about its smears of green politics and the pride of tolling around cities for cleaner air, the Progress Party is talking about road strikes that are toll-financed, but that makes one feel more. There is no lack of team or enthusiasm about government cooperation or agreement about the course further for government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1700	Freedom goes down, growth goes up, and more jobs are created. And not enough of more jobs – four out of five are created in the private business. These are jobs that do not depend on the state budget, but that contribute to the state budget. These are jobs that provide community income and contribute to a sustainable welfare society. Many politicians are happy to spend money. Then it is important that the same politicians remember where the money comes from, because the values actually have to be created before they can be shared. Workers, entrepreneurs and job creators deserve a great deal of thanks for the efforts they make to build the country. Without them, we had no government budget with money to distribute. Although many industries are important, the Norwegian oil and gas industry is clearly the largest. This year it gives us about 263 billion. kr. There are revenues to invest in a good school, green technology and to ensure that well-being also benefits future generations. The world’s most stringent environmental requirements have ensured that the Norwegian oil and gas industry has the lowest emissions in the world. Now we have to get them down. The government will therefore escalate the CO2 tax by 5 pst. annually until 2025 and impose stricter requirements on companies. In addition, we have a measure of the full-scale capture, transport and storage of CO2 in Norway. For this reason, the government, in cooperation with industry, has launched several projects. Now we're going to give up to 345 million. NOK extra for this important work. Equinor, Shell and Total E&P Norway shall drill a well and prepare a new area for storage of CO2 on the base. In addition to taking care of the jobs in our main industry, we need to build up new ones. The government therefore proposes to open new areas for sea wind, and I am pleased that, among other things. a proposal to open the area of Utsira North, off the coast of Rogaland, is now being consulted. With the right in government, the Enova pot has increased from 1.8 billion. to 3.2 billion kr. It provides a better basis for supporting marine wind projects. If we're going to get emissions down, we're going to have to bring business and put the market into operation, and if companies are going to succeed, they're going to need capital. That is why we have put in place Nysnø Climate investment in Stavanger, the capital of energy. They need to invest in smart technologies and solutions to reduce emissions and contribute to more green jobs. The government is clear that we will increase investment capital annually, and Nysnø gets this year, with this revised budget, 500 million. Extra kroner. They've gone from being a little sneeze to being a real snow cannon. To sum up, we see a positive development in our country, it's moving forward. Freedom is on its way down, growth is on its way up, and more jobs are created. We're going to take care of these jobs, with the Right in government, while at the same time facilitating new ones. This is how we create a sustainable welfare society.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1715	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1720	The working party is committed to using the means necessary to create our common security. We saw and saw the need to convert the police into today's and tomorrow's crime scene and therefore, in its time, put ourselves behind the police reform. However, it has not been implemented as we would have done, and one of the most important things is that the reform is underfunded. We are therefore proposing in the revised national budget to re-prioritize, so that the police districts will receive 50 million. kr more than the government's audit. The working party is committed to social security and security, including in the north. We have repeatedly challenged the government that the employment man’s main capacity in safety work in the sea areas around Svalbard, MS ‘Polar employment’, is ensured throughout the year. The experience of the fishing boat «Northguider»s havari in the summer of 2018 documents the need for preparedness throughout the winter. On the basis of this, the Workers' Party expects the government of the State budget for 2020 to allocate sufficient funds and ensure full-year operation of MS ‘Polar employment’. The Labour Party is pleased that the Minister of Defence has clarified so clearly that the activities of the Defence Agency in Bodø will in future not hinder the development of the ‘New City – New Airport’ project and the regulatory plan currently being finalised in the municipality of Bodø. It's important for Bodø's development. It is a paradox that Finland better facilitates the export of fresh fish from the north by keeping its border stations open 24 hours a day. This applies both in Troms and in Finnmark. Unfortunately, Norway operates the most used border station in Northern Norway. I'm sorry, because we can't afford to keep it open 24 hours a day. This means that car combinations full of fresh fish stand far to the mountain, where there is no service offer, waiting for the customs to open and they can get their stamp on the customs paper. It is unworthy of those who stand there and of business. The state has to take its role to facilitate seriously and keep the station open 24 hours a day. The Labour Party also believes that strengthening justice is important for our common security. The ABE reform is bad for the courts, because they do not have unnecessary bureaucracy, they have personnel, and the cuts lead to downsizing. This happens at a time when the criminal justice chain is under great pressure and the queues are getting longer. Structural changes must not be forced through the starvation of our courts. To that they are too important for us as a state governed by law. We therefore grant more to the courts than the government does.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1733	Our biggest cities are places with many possibilities. Here people from all over the country and around the world meet and share in creating both values and opportunities. At the same time, we know that it's exactly in the big cities that we also find the biggest social challenges. A group that often points out the most and is most vulnerable is the families with children. This government puts up many good and long-term measures to lift people out of poverty, and work and school are among the most important tools. But we want more for this group. We will ensure that as much as possible can participate in welfare development. The majority of those who will be able to own their own dwelling. With an exceptional focus on grants to disadvantaged families, we ensure that about 420 families with children will be able to become owner-occupiers this year, with a combination of grants and start-up loans. In recent years, the Right in Government has helped deliver one of the most important new initiatives in social housing policy. We have made sure that the building speed rises and the construction costs decline, so that more dwellings become available in the market. We have provided a more targeted start-up loan scheme, so that municipalities no longer have to say no to applicants who really need help. We have also strengthened housing support, we have facilitated the development of good and safe living environments through site initiatives, and we have strengthened the rental-to-owner schemes. But in the debate on inequality – what are we seeing from the Labour Party? Well, they've been sucking together over 80 different proposals, ranging from broadband to SFO, calling it a commitment to poverty. They want to raise taxes and taxes for most people and call it the fight against inequality. They do not facilitate more housing, e.g.: here in Oslo, and it's called housing policy. We, together with our government partners, have made sure to secure the jobs and create more jobs. We're betting on a school that sees each student and helps balance social differences. We're making it possible for even more people to own their own home. We are doing this through our budgets and our revised budgets. Work, school and housing – three important supports for most people, three important supports for our welfare society. We know what's important, and we're doing something about it, while the Workers' Party has now taken in a nice mix of surrenders, reversals and the opening of doors.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1749	Today I stand here with pride and optimism. I do because the Workers' Party delivers a revised budget that takes seriously that the differences increase during this government. People don't want those who have the least to get even less, people don't want hospitals to be chronically underfunded, and people don't want a two-part healthcare service. What people want, on the other hand, is a free school meal every day, which right-wing blank rejects. The Labour Party believes that a single meal a day at school will contribute to both better public health and increased learning. A school meal must be a national promise, where the country contributes financially. Already in the alternative budget for 2019 we added 700 million. kr for this purpose. Many Workers' Party-led municipalities want to go ahead locally. That's why we continue our priority of school food in the revised budget, and we want 100 million. ensure that the municipalities which are ready to start already in the autumn may apply for State resources to be mobilised. A free school meal will help reduce the differences between people. There will be twice as many older people in Norway in the next decades. Many of these are going to live at home, and then it's our job to make sure that you can live safely at home, and that you can be a boss in your own life, even though health may not be like before. About 80,000 people live with dementia today. Many of these too are going to live at home. Then we need a stake in security technology and GPS, and we've put 50 million in it. kr to a health technology scheme for municipalities. Good care for the elderly costs, and for us the goal is the best possible care for the elderly, not the cheapest possible. We get that in common, by investing in a strong public sector. In our old age policy, we focus on a more active ageing age, with activity for older people, better food in nursing homes, investment in security technology and more employees. We want to fight loneliness among the elderly, and that's why we give priority to the big money for the most important tasks. We strengthen the content of care for the elderly by 50 million. kr. Finally, I would like to point out that we still see under-funding of our common hospital. Hospitals are unable to cover the growth of activity resulting from changes in demographics and new forms of treatment. The working party therefore strengthens the hospital budget by 200 million. kr – to invest in child and youth psychiatry, to strengthen food supply and follow-up services, to increase investigation and treatment capacity, to strengthen prehospital services in the districts and to increase prevention efforts for the mental health of students. If we don't do that, the differences between people just keep increasing.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1762	One of the most important economic policies should contribute to is a society where the differences between people are small and people's opportunities. This government's economic policy has not done so. Differences are increasing. The government has prioritised tax relief for those who don't need it, and cut the social benefits of those who don't tolerate it. In his speech, the Prime Minister said that the government is holding on to the course that has been strung out. It's not fit to calm down. Employment is increasing, but there are still too many people out of work. And the growth isn't solid, as the government claims, it's fragile. Norwegian households are among the most indebted in the world and vulnerable to rising interest rates, as the Prime Minister also pointed out. Our economy is export-dependent. Lower growth in our trading partners and brexit means lower growth in us too. The government writes: «The use of oil money is distorted towards investment in knowledge and infrastructure, as well as growth-promoting tax relief.» However, the infrastructure programme with which the government has set itself on the chest for six years – it will smell asphalt all over the country – is about to collapse due to the lack of cost control in projects after projects and toll riots in the Minister of Transport and the Minister of Finance’s own party group. And how can the government continue to talk about ‘growth-promoting tax relief’? There can't be any evidence – it's fantasy. Also at this crossroads, the government collects more money from the oil fund. It makes the Norwegian economy even more oil dependent. It is an expression of this government's inability to prioritise. It is a defeat for the Right and the Prime Minister, who said that they would make the Norwegian economy less oil dependent and get the country more legs to stand on. But all of this is primarily a source of deep concern for the coming years because the government's Granavold platform is so filled with four parties' political outlets – which in many respects conflict with each other – that the ability to prioritize becomes even less in the future. And there is talk of how representatives of the various parties in this debate place the greatest emphasis on the details of the budget as ‘my party’s’ impact in this. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the cut-off of the Centre Party in the EEA Financial Mechanism, which has been pointed out by several speakers. One thing is that those purposes do not get money, but I think it is serious that this is a commitment Norway, by a majority in this Chamber, has entered into with other countries. Does the Central Party really believe that Norway is going to become a country stemming from its obligations under international law? Because that's what's in this setup.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1782	The government has repeatedly argued that they are pursuing a forward-looking industrial policy, that they are securing jobs. But we should have noticed more about that in Halden and Eastfold, because we're still waiting in suspense, and the question is how much longer we're going to have to do it. It is about important jobs that already exist. Norwegian Forest Saugbruks is a large workplace with 450 employees and 50 apprenticeships. As the situation is now, the government is causing the company a major disadvantage and an obstacle by not providing full CO 2 compensation. The decision and options now lie with the government and the Ministry of Climate and Environment. After the bankruptcy and reconstruction of Norwegian Forest, they applied to the Environment Directorate for full CO 2 compensation, but it was rejected. And despite the fact that the bankruptcy changed the whole situation, and that now there's a basis for full CO 2 compensation, they haven't gotten through to it. The underlying contract no longer exists. The agreement fell off after the bankruptcy. There is a broad consensus that Suction Farm qualifies for CO 2 compensation in accordance with the applicable legislation, based on a system of CO 2 allowances and compensation developed in the EU. But the disagreement is about the basis for curtailment in the period after the bankruptcy, i.e. 2018, 2019 and now 2020. Norwegian Forest has appealed to the Ministry of Climate and Environment, and the Workers' Party is in our comments on the crystal clear case that in this case there is reason to use the derogation in the regulation on CO 2 compensation in industry. The Ministry of Climate and Environment says that they will make an independent assessment of the case, but that it is not possible to say how long it will take – but that the matter is a priority. The months have passed since they received the application on their table. For Eastfold, for Halden and for Saugbruks, this is an important issue, one that goes right to the core of competitiveness, about Norwegian industry at its best, about local jobs that contribute to the development of industry. The possibilities and solutions are now on the government's table. We're waiting in suspense, we've been doing it for a long time, and I expect there's going to be a clarification.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1813	I would like to draw attention to minority motion No. 8, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party, where we ask the government through necessary changes in rules or practices to ensure that the redundancy scheme works in line with the Social Security Act § 1-1 Purpose, so that no one loses the right to redundancy benefits until they are ready for work or social security. The right-wing parties seem to have forgotten it, but the aim of social security is to provide financial security for, among other things. disease and injury. Work clearance money is a performance which must provide such security. A month ago, a somewhat unusual demonstration train went from Oslo S to Eidsvoll's place. Usually, there are resource-intensive groups demonstrating in front of the Storing. On 22 May 2019 was a little different. The train consisted of a large part of people who, despite the fatigue, despite the certainty that the effort it was to get to Oslo, walking by train, standing an hour and a half in front of the Storting, would lead to them being completely out of control in the next few days. They did, however, because they are despondent, because they are or have been recipients of redundancy money, but the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party are now throwing them out of popular fear and into social aid or into nothing, until they are ready for work or social security. The next day, the opposition once again tried to turn the right parts, but in vain. Today we try again – probably in vain, but there is no shame in turning around. I appeal in particular to the Christian People's Party, which says that they really mean what they did before, that it is wrong to throw people out of social security this way, but that the cuts in the AAP first have to be evaluated. But is not reality evaluation good enough? Nav's own numbers show a sharp decrease in the number that gets granted AAP. Revalidation has become extremely difficult, even though the individual is not finished. The number of social assistance is increasing. People are not authorised by private care requirements. Savings are exhausted, some are required to sell a car and a dwelling. The Minister of Labour and Social Affairs has argued to Stortinget that 66 pst. of those applying for the AAP extension, it still has it. There's numbers it'll be interesting to see if she can actually document. The Christian People's Party has shown that they are willing to sacrifice sick people on the altar of government taboos. It's not a beautiful sight. We are also not satisfied with the Zenterpartie in this case. They support the cut from four to three years, but propose at least to maintain the possibilities of individual extension. On our proposal No. 8 should fall, we will vote in a subsidiary way for the loose proposal of the Centre Party, No. Thirty-four. After all, it's better than nothing.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1830	One of the issues in the revised national budget is that we allocate 1.7 million. kr to Falstadsenteret, who, in cooperation with the Archives in Kristiansand, will develop a Norwegian digital prison archive. Through the work on the Krigsseiler register and a register of foreign excavators in Norway respectively, the two institutions have established competences on personal history databases that are now to be reused in the build-up of an open knowledge base on men and women imprisoned during World War II. The Falstad Centre and the Archives state that the work will be based initially on the book Nordmann in captivity 1940-1945, edited by Kristian Ottosen. Over several decades after the war, extensive and largely idealistic efforts were made to document the history of war and information on the North in captivity. Kristian Ottosen was one of those who was at the forefront of this work, and he was project manager for the establishment of the Norwegian Prisoner Register 1940–45. This register includes all Norwegian prisoners in the war years and their journey through Norwegian clays and to camps abroad. The first version came to the anniversary of release in 1995. It was updated in 2004, and a digital version has gradually come. No other country in Europe has any equivalent. It is this work that the project Norsk digital prison archives will have to lean on, and then it is important that those who have done the basic work, such as resistance man and Nacht und Nebel prisoner Kristian Ottosen, are duly credited for it. Without him and his close associates, the project we are deciding to finance today would not have been possible to realise. Similarly, I believe that it is both necessary and desirable that the further work on digitisation and public disclosure of all these data be carried out in close cooperation with both the Defence Museums, such as the Swedish Defence Agency. other Norway's Home Front Museum, and the National Archives, which sit on the original source material. Particular attention must also be paid to the handling of sensitive information. I am very pleased that we have received the state funding for this project in place. The national peace and human rights centres have a very important role to play in managing a very central part of the war history of the past. Not least, they are doing an invaluable job of spreading history to new generations. As time witnesses disappear, this mission is more important than ever. We will have a digital monument over all the 44,000 Northmen who were imprisoned during World War II. I look forward to the digital prison records being ready for the 75th anniversary of the release on May 8th next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1839	For a long time there has been an expressed goal from this house that more of the goods must pass from road to sea and track. I think all parties have been involved in adopting goals about it. If we are to achieve the international climate commitments and achieve our climate objectives, we must succeed in getting more of the transport from rubber wheels to sea and runways. In order to obtain more goods by road to sea, there has therefore been a separate subsidy scheme for the transfer of goods by road to sea in recent years under the State budget. It has been well received – several good projects have received support from that scheme and several good projects have been presented as current for the scheme. The Labour Party felt that 100 million should be allocated in this year's budget. kr to the good order. The government granted, or rather, the government parties in Stortinget granted 77.4 million. kr to the scheme. But when the revised budget came, the surprise was great: now the government is proposing to cut the entire amount from the plan. 100 pst. by the scheme – the whole scheme – proposed zero out. It would have been understandable if there had been a small adjustment, it could happen in the course of the year -- that's why we've revised the budget -- but removing everything, rubb and rake, is not a budget audit, it's a budget shave. Let me also say a few words about the discussion about rv. 3 and Rv. 25 in the Löten and Elverum. The road has become considerably cheaper, and it is very good. The strange thing about the government's policy is that they take all the savings in the state's share, while the amount to be taken into account in tolls is fixed. That means that the percentage of tolls increases sharply. The toll ratio is now up to 90 pst. on rv. 3 and Rv. 25-digit number In the RNB, the government proposes to take another 150 million. kr from the project. Now the Workers' Party says no – now it's going to hold. We can't have road projects financed by 90 pst. tolls. The 150 million. kr should not be cut in the project, that money will be returned to the Workers' Party. But it is a little interesting to see that, after the revised budget was presented and until the financial committee was released, the government parties have now received a request decision to reduce the toll by up to 200 million. kr on that road project. So now it's all of a sudden time to see if the tolls are going down.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1850	The government's transport policy binds the country more closely. We're building road and rail at a pace that never before, and we're betting on technology. We make everyday life easier for most people and for business. Good welfare services and competitiveness for business require both a modern infrastructure of high quality and efficient and secure transport solutions. The government is concerned that there will be less toll for most people. For the past five years, we have closed toll stations, reduced toll rates outside the urban areas and increased the part that the state pays in projects. With the Granavolden platform, efforts to reduce tolls will be further strengthened. With this government, the toll percentage goes down and the road investment rises. In fact, we have reduced the number of tolls in road projects from 40 pst. under the previous government to 28 pst. under the Solberg Government. In the new National Transport Plan we're going to work on, we're expecting the share of tolls to go down further. In 2018, toll collection was completed in five projects and two new ones started. A total of 81 projects were at the time adopted by the Stortinget. Of these, 22 projects have not yet started to collect tolls. The preliminary result from the total pass-by income in 2018 is EUR 11 billion. kr. It was a slight increase from the previous year. So this isn't a government grant, as individual batches make it, but the toll companies' income. The State contribution is in contrast to an annual allocation of 500 million. SEK, which benefited 40 road projects in 2018. It is also part of the history that in 2018 operating costs were as a proportion of the pass-by income for projects with a collection of 7.1 pst. This is the lowest proportion ever and places many of the media statements about the cost collection in a gruesome light. Both the Workers' Party and the Centre are concerned that savings on road projects will benefit the drivers. So are we. So we're going to do something about it by giving 200 million. kr in addition to this in the revised national budget. When the Work Party and the Centre Party proceed to the OPS project rv. 3/rev. 25 in Hedmark as an example of the opposite, I must remind you that this project is not completed until November 2020, and does not have bombings today. The State contribution is granted annually and this year it is estimated at 150 million. kr lower than previously assumed, but if so, you do not know until the project is completed. It will then be premature to draw the conclusion. I also want to ask the representatives who calculated the percent, to go back to Prop. 1 S. It says a rather different cost key and a different cost distribution than what they use when they're talking about 90 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1863	Norway is the country of opportunity. We can strengthen our welfare state and increase our value creation, while at the same time getting our emissions down. Everything really facilitates a real transformation of the Norwegian economy, because we have skilled workers and companies that will invest further for the future. We see several good single examples. After all, it is becoming particularly worrying when the results show that Norway, on the contrary, has become more oil dependent in recent years. In 2018, the trade deficit for mainland Norway’s foreign trade amounted to 250,000 million. kr. And just since 2014, this deficit has deteriorated by 56 pst. It is as clear a message to this room as it is possible to be documented that policy needs to be significantly improved if we are to have greater values in the future and more jobs, while reducing emissions. Take the forest industry as a good example, where it is now properly equipped with good access to raw materials, with a favourable price for export-oriented industry and with skilled professionals who have lots of good ideas. But the main problem is that there is too little access to capital. Therefore, the Workers' Party will strengthen the risk-absorbing of bioeconomy so that we increase the value creation from land, forest and sea. And we need a far more viable governance of our country, and we need to end a kind of affluence in important individual matters. Let me take two specific cases: the Labour Party is clear that we must clean up the costly payment that industry must make through guarantees of origin. Everyone in Norway knows that our industry is using pure force, so the government has to clean this up. The same applies to Saugbruges in Halden, as we in the Workers' Party write about in the comments today. It is too wrong that an important industrial company should wait winter and spring for a simple clarification on CO 2 compensation. We can do much better in Norway. We need better governance of our country – less brilliance and sluggishness and more efficiency in order to get better prospects and more jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1879	The representative Gahr Støre appeared as a swearer following a public railway monopoly, no matter what it costs and no matter what service. And the representative Svein Roald Hansen was very concerned about the state's tax revenue. Then I dare remind the representative Hansen that the SSB presented the tax statistics on Tuesday, and it shows 8.2 pst. increase in tax revenue — despite a decrease in petroleum taxes. There is nothing to suggest that civil tax policy undermines the common fund, to put it that way. And then we have the representative Moxnes who argued heavily for classless society -- a classless society free of property, a classless society free of market, a classless society made up of a ruling class that oppresses its people. So it worked out for the Moxnes representative to call for new ideas and better solutions. No, it's communism, and it's thrown at the scrappowder of history. Investments in mainland Norway are increasing. Competitiveness is improved — and the latter is very important in a small country with a very open economy, where we are totally dependent on exporting abroad. In fact, the export share is 40 pst. of gross domestic product, in which case it is so sad to hear the Central Party, as indicated by the representative Gülsvik, in its crusades against the EEA Agreement. The landing of "Helge Ingstad" was a shot for the bow, to put it so. It was a serious blow. As a result, the operational capability of the Marine has been reduced. As the frigate weapon had come up and stood through appropriations for additional crews and spare parts, we lost one frigate. The Government has initiated remedial measures by granting funds to double the crew of KNM ‘Maud’ and by replacing the spare part package actually on board the frigate, intended for NATO’s standing fleet. Finally, I must be allowed to express my joy that the government has found room for 335 million. kr to new E18. With that allocation, the planning and grounding may go further, and the new E18 from Lysaker to Ramstad will be completed in 2027. This is important. This is Norway's most trafficked road. It was said by an SV representative that this would lead to increased pollution. No, 40,000 people living with noise and pollution today face better times.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1892	In the mid-year revision of the 2019 budget, it is safe to conclude that most parameters show that the UK is doing very well, not least the development of the labour market. The unemployment rate is much lower, the jobs are safer, the competitiveness of the export industry is strengthened, and there is growth in the number of newly established enterprises. Having access to a job is a matter for the individual about the good life, about realising himself and about freedom for himself and his loved ones. For society, it's easier for everyone to get a job one of the heaviest tools we have for socializing and preventing poverty. Activities that go well and generate tax revenue into the community are a means for us to take care of and further develop the welfare society, the common security network. Therefore, a political plurality and a government that honors founders, investors, corporate owners and people who take a great personal risk of creating values for others, the community, depend entirely on. In this way, it is safe to have a Christian People's Party with us in government, and that we four government parties can be sure that we have multiple numbers for a business and employment policy that is clearly positive both for business owners and for those who add. For the Left, it is also nice and very important to note that the new climate and research policy is working, and not only continues in strength but is increasing. The revisions include: added $25 million. kr to an incentive scheme to set climate requirements in the event of new offers in fast boat traffic. It is crucial both to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and to establish a home market for own maritime industry. Last night, the government followed up the systematic strengthening of the green growth and maritime industry incentive scheme by presenting its own action plan for green shipping. The shipping and shipping industries are crucial to ensure that we are happy to do something about greenhouse gas emissions and to prevent the escalating development of extreme weather. The requirements for emission reductions in own industry combined with a very forward-looking industry and a government and government party that systematically prioritises green conversion and growth show that it is possible to convert the economy and cut greenhouse gas emissions without stagnating economic growth. Finally, a small explanation of vote on proposal No. Thirty-five. It is quite natural and of course that women's football should be sidelined with the corresponding arrangement for men. All four governmental parties will therefore vote for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1906	The Government proposed to introduce VAT exemptions for electronic journals in the budget for 2019 from 1 July of this year. Printed periodicals are exempt from VAT today and the change will ensure equal treatment of printed and electronic journals. The adopted State budget said that the government would come back to the facility in the revised national budget. The Granavolden platform states that zero VAT should ensure the development of the digital media society by facilitating electronic versions which must not be completely identical to the printed version. It is good to see that the Financial Committee is following up the proposal, which is important to ensure innovation and to prevent distortions of competition between providers of electronic and printed journals. In the recently adopted media communication, Stortinget also underlines the importance of a forward-looking exemption system. There is no secret that there has been a discussion between the industry and the Ministry of Finance about the regulation that was being consulted, and I am pleased that some changes have been made. The regulation now states that moderate entries of live images, sound or other functionality are opened and that there is no requirement for a printed edition of the electronic journal. These are perfectly correct and necessary adjustments. However, this is not enough when we are about to put in place the regulation to ensure an innovative and forward-looking professional magazine industry. I therefore value the fact that the government parties write that some adjustments should be made. Digital journalism is in its form different from the paper version of newspapers and journals. Digital journalism is dynamic in its form, and the conditions attached to the publication, which apply to VAT exemptions for paper versions, are therefore not transferable on digital publishing. Norway already introduced VAT exemptions for electronic news services in 2016. The exemption has been shown to be a major success and has given an obvious positive effect. Journals were not included in that measure at the time. We need to be concerned that the different news players should also have equal terms and conditions in charge. Magazines have an important role to play in today’s newsprint. The reasons behind the justification for the VAT exemption on electronic news services and on today’s paper editions of a journal are equally applicable to digital publications of comparable content. In parallel with Norway, Sweden has decided to introduce VAT exemptions for digital news publications from 1 July this year. They have stressed in their legislative design the differences between paper and digital publishing, but nevertheless decided that access to the same type of editorial content should be subject to VAT exemption irrespective of the publishing platform. The distortion of competition within the same market must also be prevented across borders, and I therefore hope that the Ministry of Finance is now taking the time to ensure a forward-looking, appropriate and good regulation that does not distort competition.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1919	This has been a brand week for the climate. On Monday, we agreed to cooperate with Europe on cutting emissions, and for the first time, we now have an internationally committed climate agreement. On Tuesday, the government proposed opening sea wind areas, and sea wind could become a renewable industrial venture for Norway. Yesterday, the government presented the Green Shipping Action Plan, which is about how we're going to manage to cut 50 pst. emissions from shipping by 2030. And today the climate agreement came with agriculture. This government provides a comprehensive climate policy for all sectors. All sectors will cut, and in themselves there is something new in Norwegian climate policy. The criticism we get from the left that nothing is happening in climate policy is completely absurd. The only thing they have to do is criticise — no new measures to reduce emissions. I am currently recording how the Socialist Left will not even do anything about what they have criticized us for. They are now on the government's offensive line for renewable and climate aid abroad. But the climate week is not yet finished for the government, because the bet continues in revision. Now, for example, we're strengthening. Climate change rate to bring emissions down from the quick-boat connections. Here the emissions are too high, and we know they have to go down. We are strengthening the commitment to green food transport, and in 2019 the budget is more than 0.5 billion. kr. Revised is also good news for CO 2 capture and storage. There is now a need to drill a well to see if the area you think is suitable for storage is actually suitable for storage. It's expensive to drill a well like this, so here's the state, and we're saying the state is going to take 75 pst. of expenditure, up to 345 million. kr. We strongly focus on CO 2 capture and storage, precisely because we know how important it is for us to be able to combat the man-made climate change. Climate change is a complex issue that requires many different solutions. We get that with this government – for all sectors. There are still gray parties, but none of them are in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1940	For a long time, the media has shown the consequences of the government's tightening up of redundancy payments. Thousands of people now have no income. Some of them get a poor wage in social assistance, while others don't get a penny because of caring obligations from others and values in the world. It seems that the government is either turning the blind eye to, that they actually don't understand the consequences of their own policies, or that this is the point: sending people out for social assistance, depending on other people's needs, or saving money to the kids. Because this is the real thing today. In order to receive social assistance, a spouse may not have income. The kids can't have any savings in the account, and if one sits on something else of value, a jam has to sell me all of this before one gets a penny. In other words, the government has given up all of these individuals who do not fit into a three-year payroll. They have given up getting them to work, they have given up getting them clarified, and the result is serious. As a small patch on the wound, the government chooses to send 15 million. kr towards increased processing capacity in Nav and 90 million. SEK to municipalities for increased expenditure on social assistance. This confirms that the aim of the policy is to increase poverty. I'm not surprised by this, because the right-hand side has always had a feeling that each one must inherit a lot of money from parents or their own happiness. The government's Nav policy is a poverty policy where redundancy money has been the locomotive that brings people into poverty. It's sad that it's like this. This has to turn around. Poverty and differences are married to each society, but it does not seem that the government is well aware of this, with the revised budget that is in place. A brief explanation of vote: Proposal No. 34, from the Center Party, has some clear weaknesses, but it's after all better than the system that's today, so we'll vote subsidiaryly for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1953	I have heard many representatives of the government parties and the government today who boast about what they have done in different areas. It's not so strange, because no government has ever had as much money at its disposal and spent as much oil money as this government. It would only be lacking if you had not used them for anything positive. You couldn't throw all the money out of the window. 230 B.C.E. Now oil crowns are being put into the budget, clearly they must be used for something positive. I guess that money also had other governments ready to use for something positive. In an era of extreme weather, the government cuts vital racial protection and accelerates giant highways into Oslo, increasing pollution and dangerous emissions and pushing more cars into Oslo, where all traffic growth was to be taken with collective, gangways and bicycles. The discharge shots need to be bigger. On boat and ferry it is possible quickly, but then we have to make sure that no new tender goes without zero emission requirements. It has been suggested by SV, and we have spent money to realize it. Then I hear that the government parties also boast that they have now sorted out the allowance. Yeah, we've been screwing the government parties and the government for months to get it done. In fact, I think it's a little shameful to hear that you praise yourself for what you've been forced to do. It was just to be lacking if you hadn't had money for these families when the richest and freshest get billions. I hear someone say that the housing support has been strengthened. 3 100 fewer people now receive housing support than the government planned for Christmas, it is in the revised national budget. More and more of these out of the scheme, for now the average income of households who receive this is NOK 130 000, and their capital charges are NOK 97 000. These are people who may have gotten a little bit more in housing support, but their boute poisons have increased a lot more, and their income has fallen. These are very poor people. And it's simply not true when the Christian People's Party is saying that you've strengthened the housing support, and that housing support is increasing. Thousands less now than before, and they get to cover a smaller part of their bout toxins than they got before. This is sending people right into poverty and insecurity at one of the most important things for a person, namely his home. I can't understand why the Christian People's Party is involved in these priorities, because here are areas that obviously go right into what should be their core issues, both in climate and poverty.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1968	The President would point out that the term ‘disgusting’ has previously been cited as a non-parliamentary use of words.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1973	Access to nutritious food is not just a need, it is a human right, which is broken daily by Norwegian hospitals. For elderly and generally disabled persons, malnutrition may be a catalyst for disease. Once again, it could be a vicious circle of disease, leading to even worse appetite and low food intake. We know that food creates well - being and security, so we must contribute to good food experiences for many older ones. I am therefore very pleased that this is a major theme of the government’s quality reform for the elderly, Life throughout my life. I commend the government for following up with a desire to establish a state investment grant for the renovation, construction or re-establishment of local kitchen solutions with their own production kitchens at existing nursing homes and nursing homes for people with good luck services. The goal is to give older people a better meal experience by making cooking a larger part of everyday life. It is proposed to set at 12,5 million. DKK in the current envelope for the grant and a budget of SEK 625000 for the first year of payment now in 2019. With such a grant, this government will help to ensure that the smell of food is refilled in several hospitals. It is important that residents of our nursing homes get to experience, smell and taste the home cooking, every day. There is a great deal of interest in this in the municipalities and very good that the grant is already being set up in 2019. Food is medicine. Good, home-made food prepared locally improves nutrition status, increased independence in daily life and improved health-related quality of life. It is important that this is followed up locally. The good meal is absolutely central to most of us, and there is no reason why this should change if you have to move to a nursing home. Our elderly people deserve a safe and worthy old age with food that tastes and creates well-being, and – if I may add – like a glass of wine.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e1984	When I've listened to this debate, it's at least made me think that when the government has done something positive, it's because the opposition has drawn us after our ears or knelt us to make these kind of changes. All the other things we do are, of course, of evil – to plague people. So that's the way it can go in the world's richest country, in the world's second best country to live in. Of course that's not the case. It is not that the revised budget that we are dealing with today is designed to make the world more difficult for people. We live in a country where more people are working than ever, and getting people to work is perhaps the most important measure to help people out of poverty. I have been curious to hear from the representative Henriksen, who is talking about free school leisure arrangements and free school meals. I would remind you that this is not a budgetary procedure. This is the revised national budget. I also hear that the representative Hansen says that this revised budget is marked by Kepphester. Thank me to the Kepphester, for they stand still, unlike if we had another government, where most would be wild horses. I would also like to remind you that what we are doing in the revised national budget is adjusting what may be necessary. We have had some boats. We've had some other kind of changes that it's absolutely necessary to do something about, so we're adjusting what's in the 2019 budget. I notice that we are in a country where unemployment goes down, where more people are working than ever, and where the growth is rising. That means that we create more jobs and that we can sell more goods and services. Several complete secondary schools. It's fine. The students are at school. And not only are they at school -- they're learning more, they're more in the classroom, and they're doing homework. I dare remember, given the rhetoric we have heard repeatedly today, that it may be wise to do the homework. That's what you need to learn more. It may be that, like the students, you have a better chance of getting on the labour market and getting to work. More people get treatment, too. The cows are going down, and the health services are delivering. In other words, financial policy is working, and we are adjusting the need. We're doing what we promised in the election campaign. We deliver on the things that were our bet areas, and the local economy is better than ever. I have to point out that yesterday a decision was taken in Halden, which means that you are out of the ROBEK list – a formidable political work after a gigantic deficit and mismanagement when the Right took over in 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e2009	This almost feels like a debate in which we are at the wits, or at least far from each other. It was interesting to register the head of the Workers' Party when the revision was presented. Then it was free of oil money and increased interest expenses for people most. Now, when you suddenly don't get your budgets to go up, yes, you have to look at the possibility of spending a little more oil money without creating inflation or interest rate increases. This clearly shows that the Working Party is angled back and forth. It'll be a little bit like the fog prince, trying to tell more things at once. And it's not better with the Center Party. Most of the stuff that's going to do for the center is completely impossible. It's like believing in Christmas Eve in mid-June. The central party's response here today to remove the 350-kroner limit from 1 August is physically impossible. Everyone who delivers these services says they can't do it. They may not be able to get it by 1 January either. So that means it's a challenge with that kind of containment. This is airlocks and air money. Reality is at least not much love for all those who are now working in the Post Office, and for the districts. We'll get worse services because the Center Party wants to hit the districts this way. Employees in the Post are already taking tough cuts, with downstaffing, and they get it even tougher in the future. To the Sandtrøen representative, who boasts of business. I think it's nice to hear that people boast of business in this room. But it's the same party that tells us how bad these business people are, that they reduce their taxes on wealth, etc. Business, it's people who go to work every day and think, how am I going to make my business go? How can I make sure that I have more employees? How can I create values that provide income and opportunities for this society to provide the good welfare systems? Several representatives from this pulpit today have been quite negative to the people who create these values. I think it's good to have a motivation that makes people want to stand on and create values. Other representatives of this pulpit would prefer to close the holes in the North Sea, which are actually involved and contribute to the good welfare arrangements that we are able to provide to our citizens. Then I have to admit that we're actually doing crazy a lot of good with what's available here now. I am very happy that when the matter came to Stortinget, we increased the grant to Inn on the tunet system. It doesn't sound very special, but it's important for those people who get the opportunity to work on a farm, who have challenges in their everyday life – either sickness or other things – or demented people who get the opportunity to get the good and magical moments where they are with animals and people in a different way. This is a measure we should have more of. That's why I'm very happy that we've increased this now, and I hope we can get even more of that in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e2022	The President recalls that ‘mighty prince’ is not an acceptable parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e2027	Good education is essential to provide children and young people with good opportunities later in life. A good school is in many ways the key to everything. Right will have a school with opportunities for everyone, where students' talent and interest determine which school you go to, where you live, or the size of the wallet for your parents. We have already taken a number of measures that have enhanced quality and content in school, which have helped to improve care and well-being for low-income families and young people with special needs for support and follow-up, and where we particularly pledge to previous efforts. So we've had a solid promise and a change of course in education policy since the government change. Then it's a little strange to hear the criticism of the red-green parties, which even cuts or not prioritize what matters most to our kids. In 2019, SV will cut the continuing training effort by half a billion kroner and remove the teacher-specialist scheme. The Labour Party will cut support for private kindergartens, even though they provide half of the quality and content of the sector. And the Center Party and SV do not want us to follow up municipalities that are following, and will have less knowledge of the state of the school and report Norway out of Pisa. Fortunately, the red-green knowledge budgets do not control them. Today, we strengthen our efforts for a school where students will master and learn more. We give priority to actions that provide better early action, concrete pilot projects, digital learning materials, science centres that promise real science, and we give priority to a skills reform, learn throughout our lives. In addition, we provide several places of study. We're betting on quality and content in school. We're going to bet on early action. The aim is for all children to experience mastering early and quickly acquire basic skills such as reading, writing and billing. It gives learning joy and increased self-confidence, and safer children can acquire more knowledge of their education. We have strengthened the toolbox for the municipalities, and with a municipal election in front of us, it is important to raise the debate on more active school owners. Because we have a difference school. We see that many succeed, and that more should learn from the best. A bad school reproduces social differences. In mathematics, the characterization of high-educated pupils is 4.4, while for non-educated students it is 2.8. Think about it a little bit. When there can be as much as a whole school year in contrast to what a child gets from education, between the best and the worst schools, it tells us that we have too many schools today that too little power to compensate for social differences from home. The right is ready to be an active school owner and to raise quality and content – knowledge of school, of school. That is what will be exciting in front of the forthcoming municipal elections: who will govern school policy. You ask me, the answer is quite clear: it shouldn't be the red-green ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e2044	This spring we've seen the greatest movement and popular mobilization for climate ever, from Norwegian school students who in a number of about 40,000 have set up and taken to the streets because they're worried. They are concerned about a government that, last year, increased greenhouse gas emissions, but still in January, boasted of awarding record numbers of new fields to oil directors. They're worried about their own future, and it's understandable when the government doesn't do what's in their power to cut the emissions, but instead they even increase. If the government thinks that the climate strike is just a bluff, they have to believe again, because in August, even more of these climate strikes are announced. Youth is not going to give way, and it is time that the older garden in the government also opens its ears to the protests and eyes for the solutions, because the solutions are available. We know what we need to do to solve the climate crisis. We have to apply the zero-emission solutions. They already exist, and many of them develop in Norway. There has been a lot of talk about nutrition today. Many parties have competed to be the most nutritious party. I hope that all the parties here can start taking care of the industries we're going to have in the future, not just those we've had up until now. For Norway, everything has to do with taking the climate crisis seriously. We can secure jobs in the yard industry and in renewable industries that this fantastic country has to offer. Then I must be allowed to spend some time on something else that I am very disappointed about, namely the merciless rejection of the Abbasi family. The family is now at home in Trondheim, not because the government lifted a finger to get it done, but because Afghanistan would not accept them. The Minister of Justice should come back and inform the Storting about this, as he promised on Monday evening. The draft of the Abbasi family must be examined. It is amazing that the Minister of Justice has not intended to inform the Storting before well in the fall about who said it was okay to throw a unconscious person out of the country, and who said it was good to separate children and young people from their mother when life was like a tough party. The smallest Minister of Justice can do now is to ensure that the draft is passed through with light and light, so that it can never repeat itself. Because now the Abbasi family needs peace and quiet, and Norway needs that this does not happen again with anyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e2056	When I hear the government parties in this debate, I hear that they are very self-satisfied. Sometimes it's worth getting a look from the outside, so you get less slippery. I'm going to draw attention to a news that was in the media a short time ago, which said Norway is falling behind. A recent OECD report shows that Norway is taken back by OECD countries in the proportion of higher education young people. It's happening under the right-hand government. And the Minister of Research and Higher Education said in a comment that this is serious, both for Norway's competitiveness and for conversion. The working party could not have agreed more. A highly educated population is crucial for our ability to transform and further develop us as a nation. On the threshold of large shifts both in the labour market and in society, we in the Workers' Party are very concerned about this. Not least, we're worried that the government is holding hands and letting it happen. The OECD report demonstrates that Norway has fallen from fifth to tenth place in the proportion of 25-34 year-olds with completed higher education in recent years. If this continues, Norway will be below the OECD average in four years’ time. Unfortunately, Norway already does so with regard to research appropriations, so this is a serious warning of the national competitiveness. The OECD proposes two solutions. One is to get more people to complete the training course in a normal time. Here, government action has been to cut the student grant, with uncertain effect beyond stressing students. The second solution is to get more people to take higher education. Here, State Council Nybø answers in the comments to the media that there have been more places to study, but that we are in no way in target. It's an understatement. The judicial administration has barely allocated funds to new places of study, despite the high record of qualified applicants. It's passive. Not only does the government fail the many who want to study, it is also that businesses and businesses demand more competence. The Labour Party proposed 3,000 new study places in the alternative budget, and we are adding to the revised. We have 50 million. to several places of study, with particular emphasis on ICT, technology, real science, teacher training and health and social sciences. The country has a frightening shortage of nurses and teachers. The working party will provide more opportunity to study — throughout the country. The labour market needs both labour and competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e2075	Under the right-hand government, the differences between people are increasing. Three out of ten households have less to pay their bills today than they had in 2013. Over 100,000 children grow up in families with persistent poor advice. Thousands of people have lost their redundancy money and are on the bar. At the same time, the right-wing government has prioritised giving the richest billions in tax cuts. With increasing inequality, it is even more important to rehabilitate and expand the universal welfare state, where everyone receives the same offers. This is the Norwegian social-democratic model – good welfare for everyone, where we split through the treasure. It has provided better well-being and smaller differences. Instead, the solutions of the right-hand side are to provide welfare goods only to those with very low income, in practice only one income per family. Need-tested schemes act as pure traps of poverty. Families lose free offers if their income increases, and it would be a good idea for them to continue with only one income or low job rates. This admits the government itself, which writes the following in answers to budgetary questions from the Workers' Party: ‘Poverty schemes can also become poverty traps that effectively keep parts of the population out of the labour market.’ Today's government has increased the cash support and the one-off benefit and added up to the needs-tested schemes in kindergarten and SFO, which in effect make it worthwhile not to work. This helps to keep people, especially women with a minority background, away from the labour market. We now have a historic opportunity to get the whole people to work, but unfortunately that's not the government's concern. On the contrary, they cut the redundancy allowance for people who could have worked and who are now being pushed out for social assistance. They deliver very little on the promise of skills that the working life so badly needs. They have an inclusion duty completely free of content, and the small increase in employment we have seen comes largely through rental and the manning industry, not as a whole, permanent job. The Labour Party fights for a safe and fair working life with the whole of permanent jobs and a wage to live off, for the whole of the people in work and action that ensures equal opportunities for everyone in school, which we know is crucial to opportunities in working life. We want 100,000 million. for redundancy benefits, so that more people are given the opportunity to work, the right of activity test for all beneficiaries of social assistance, and 20 million. kr for a full-time health culture in order to increase the level of safety for more people. The policy of the right-hand side gives greater differences and less freedom. The policies of the Workers' Party give less diversity and greater freedom.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e2093	The last debate before the summer enters history as a debate on variety. At least the Government Party will not discuss the revision of its own budget. Instead, they use the speaking time of the reaction of the Labour Party five minutes after the revision was submitted more than one month ago. This criticism is a parody. We were in our comment that time concerned that interest rates might increase, and so has she. The problem here is that the government party in search of a cheap rhetorical defense ignores the fact that macro-economic analysis is fresh. The economy is changing day by day. The analysis needs to be updated continuously. Many can happen in five weeks, and so has it. There's a growing concern about trade war. We get daily news that Trump is a risk to the world economy. If, for example: should decide to impose penalties on German cars, there will be an emergency brake in the translation into Norwegian aluminium industry. This is just an example of why economic growth is so bad, and we have that with us when we conclude, for example. in the use of oil money. Therefore, it does not matter that the Right in articles after articles criticises us today for being at the same level of oil money usage as they do. At best, it's a self-target. And the thing that really doesn't hang on to is the boasting about how good things are in Norway. If the economy was really as fantastic and scot-proof as the government party claims, they would probably have taken the oil money down. But they haven't, so it's a double goal. It says its whereabouts on the rim of this government when they don't want to use this last day of debate to talk about their own policies. But it's well because they don't want to focus on him being unsocial and unfair, that he affects ordinary people. That's enough because they don't want to have any attention around them having a lack of control. The Labour Party likes to debate what community resources are to be used for, how we are to achieve the climate goals, how we are to bet on new industries that give us more bones to stand on, and how to facilitate jobs and growth across the country. We propose two major reforms to help smooth out differences: scholastic food and free SFO and AKS to the smallest. There are targeted policies, in stark contrast to what the government is doing here, simply using high-recorded oil money, just to avoid becoming a field and being able to hang together as a cracking stake for a little while longer.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e2102	The last post was really a good introduction to my, because one of the things that the representative Holen Bjørdal said, was that this government is not talking about what it gets, it's just talking about the opposition. There are not so many posts since the representative Karin Andersen from SV frustrated said that this government boasts of everything it gets all the time, but that it is because it spends so much money. We are in a situation where the opposition believes completely different things all the time, even in alternating posts. But the reason we've criticized the oil money usage the Workers' Party adds is that the Workers' Party itself reacted to the government's budget, and said this was going to increase interest rates. If you think it's going to increase interest rates, and then suggest spending more money than the government, you're actually proposing a revised budget that you think is going to increase interest rates. It must be allowed to point out when the country’s largest opposition party – at least for the time being – proposes such a policy. We have seen the Labour Party's response to this criticism, the legitimate criticism. The representative Jonas Gahr Støre, who is also the leader of the party, said no, the use of oil money cannot be reduced to one budget, it must be reduced over time. In that case, it's a little funny that you suggest taking it up, if you're going to take it down over time. The representative, Ingrid Heggø, from the Workers' Party said that the government is doing this in the agricultural settlement itself. No, the government doesn't. The agricultural settlement is set out in the 2020 budget. No money is taken from the oil fund to settle the agricultural situation. At the same time, the same party that has criticized this government over and over again in this debate says that they have enormous confidence in this government, because they say it's the government that knows best how much money you spend in the budgets. So it's such a confusing message that it needs to be pointed out. At the same time, it is seen that the opposition on top of it has proposals for containment that are – to say the least – unrealistic, and they have proposals for containment that can look good on paper but that have major consequences, for example. Bring down 450 million. kr in consultancy. Well, then, the opposition must also respond to which digitisation projects are to stop, which road projects to stop planning, and which universities and colleges are no longer to be built up. That's how these consultants actually do a very important job. Therefore, in a debate that can be about small and large items, there is a need for the whole of the policy to be in place. The country does not just need a spending policy or a welfare policy; it needs a responsible and proper income policy. No more promises can be made for everything and everyone and at the same time take a solid pinching action on the income side of the State budget, with both reduced working hours and the closure of the oil and gas industries. That's not how you run a country, so it's very good that the opposition doesn't do it either.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e2119	My challenge, which was sent to the Central Party earlier in the debate, has still not been answered. So the center part cuts with a pen stroke of 537 million. kr from EEA funds, mid-year, in order to reduce the electricity charge. And just to repeat the challenge: the previous two years, the EEA funds have provided more than 1000 organisations with the opportunity to promote democratic projects, to promote human rights in Europe. But it doesn't seem to impress the Center Party at all. Nearly 270,000 people have received assistance or legal assistance. But it is not enough for the Senterpartiet to think that well you may not be for the EEA, but that at least this money is well spent. This money is going to fight modern corruption in Hungary, they're going to give former inmates help get back to work, they're going to get unemployed youth back into work so they can support themselves. Tomorrow we'll celebrate Pride, and this money will go, for example. to a project in Slovenia which provided for almost equal rights for heterophiles and homophiles, because Norwegian EEA funds are involved and contribute. There are such measures in the centre party, which means that it is less important than cutting an alternative ear in the electricity charge. I believe that the Central Party owes us an explanation of how they believe this can be defended. Notwithstanding the EEA Agreement, Norway should contribute to less social and economic disparities in Europe. This is not money, these are not projects. Cut over half a billion dollars, one fifth of our contribution through the EEA Agreement, will have an impact on individuals in Europe. And even if it does not apply to cuts in Norway, our hand should extend beyond the Norwegian border, and I believe that the Central Party should respond during this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e2138	Last year the Green Party adopted a comprehensive draft state budget for 2019, showing how Norway can achieve its climate objectives and at the same time strengthen the community, reduce disparities and create a society that cultivates diversity and individual abilities. This was Erna Solberg's eleventh missed opportunity to ensure an environmental policy in line with the Paris Agreement and the need for a living globe. Unfortunately, the environmental and climate crisis is not reflected in the government's revised budget, and the government is still unable to clarify whether they will invest in full-scale CO 2 capture and storage in Norway is alarming. We therefore agree with the proposal that the government must provide the Storting with a basis for deciding on the financing for the capture, transport and storage of CO 2 by autumn at the latest. The democracies of Europe are under pressure, and the Greens are more open about money and power. This is related. Today, smart scammers can buy and manage Norwegian companies without being discovered. A rapporteur may make millions to enter into contracts with the municipality in secret. In 2014, the Storting asked the government to ‘establish a public solution with information on shareholders that ensures greater transparency, with establishment during 2015’ – 2015, President. It is good that the government should now set up, in line with the EU's Money Laundering Directive, a register of real rightholders, i.e. those who own or control a company. But I think it is serious that the government is once again trying to claim that with this new ownership register, they have questioned Stortinget's request for a public shareholder register. I would strongly like to express from the interlocutory here that the government does not have the basis to consider the decision to be fulfilled. Especially now that the government is setting the threshold high in order to be in the ownership register, most shareholders in Norwegian companies will never be in this register. Rather, the solution must be to collect both registers under the same searchable platform, open to the public. Such a register has Denmark. Their central business register lists current and former owners, both Danish and foreign, and all others who, through indirect ownership, exercise control over a company. All over more than 5 pst. of the capital or voting rights of a company shall be recorded and the data recorded in intervals. The register in Denmark has led to a number of important detections of fraud and money laundering. I would like to take the floor again in a separate article on another form of transparency, namely transparency for diversity in sexuality and gender identity.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e2162	Today, the Labour Party is desperately trying to import an American inequality debate into Norway. Their problem is that the differences in Norway are small. Figures from the Ministry of Finance show that the difference between the tax regime of the government and the Workers' Party is roughly non-existent. So if tax is the way to solve the inequalities, well, then the Workers' Party has to set up its taxes vigorously. How much? No one in the Labour Party can answer that. If higher taxes are the solution, then the Workers' Party must tell us why the inequalities increased in Norway when they were in government, why the child poverty increased when they themselves were in government, because then the personal tax was higher, the wealth tax higher, the company tax higher – and we had inheritance tax. The rhetoric and policy of the Workers' Party in this field is – I'm sorry to say so – almost uninteresting, because there is a pale copy of SV and Red. I think it is a more honest matter to discuss taxes and charges with Red and SV, because we know where we have them. They've always meant that it's going to be intense, and then it's going to be an honest debate about it. But the Workers' Party has begun to wing these questions. Norway is one of the world’s highest standards of living and least unequal. We, in the government parties, are working to make sure it keeps going on like this. That's why we work for more people to get into work – whether they want to get a job or whether they want to create their own. That's why we work for a school system that creates and gives equal opportunities to everyone, regardless of social background. And that's also why we've launched an inclusion mechanism that will make the path from newly arrived refugee to an integrated social and tax-paying citizen as short as possible. The Labour Party's response in this debate is sadly taxed, but how high it should be, no one can say anything about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e2171	I take a explanation of vote on some of the proposals from Red. We are going to support the proposals No. 36 and 39, but we do not support proposal No. 37 – and I'll explain why. We have notified Red that we could support a proposal to ensure maternity care at the OYS, but we believe it is too detailed to take a decision on childbirth at the department and position level. I have asked a question to the Council of State today about how both Health South-East and OYS break the mission document and the interaction agreement with the Municipality of Oslo when they overrun the municipality in connection with the transfer of the tasks. And once I have the floor, I can't stand it, because I think it was little incredible to listen to the representative Hoksrud instead, who boasted that you have $3 million. DKr to the Tuna. It's been two weeks since the government parties voted in favour of our proposal to keep the grant for dentures. That's 500 million. NOK to the approximately 4000 places you have today. For the $3 million. kr, which Hoksrud boasts, you can get 24 seats – and there are about 5000 seats missing if we are to achieve the targets in the dementia plan. Here we give the little finger, and then they take not only the whole hand, but also the whole arm.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e2178	The government takes credit for Norway being among the world's best countries to live in, but I can assure them that it was us before we got today's government. I think a lot could have gone better if the Senter party were in government. Our approach to the budget is that we should have fair distribution, good governance and a real government. The centre party has an alternative for professionals in the municipalities, the counties, the kindergartens, the schools, the universities, the colleges and the colleges, and we think it's in the first line the most important job is done. Now we're revising the national budget, and we're going to review our own proposal before Christmas. Employment and competence must be raised. People must be given the opportunity to take higher education throughout the country. Vocational schools are not given the means to expand on demand and needs. The colleges feel they should be colleges. Universities feel they can't maintain all their places of study. The government must take responsibility for this. For example, if the Nesna and the Sandness Lake are laid down as places of study, Namsos and Steinkjer are depleted and we only have Levanger and Bodø left in the long term, there is a weakening of the educational offer in Trøndelag and Nordland. That is not in line with the need. In our alternative revision, the centre party will make use of the funds to maintain a decentralised higher education, as well as a wider range of vocational schools. We get the standard of living in kindergartens, with effect from the autumn, which also requires training. This is the least-declared, worst-off and least-funded norm, with the risk of depopulation and poorer child-care coverage. Professional and resource-intensive subjects are and will be important for the Centre Party. Not only do we want a better economy for municipalities and counties with increased grants, we also want to secure grants for resource-intensive occupations. There is no doubt that here too, the need for education and equipment is much greater than what the government takes into account in its budgets. The representative Hoksrud hassles with the 350-kroner rule, which the Center Party wants to live, but he forgets that it is a natural consequence of our alternative government budget from before Christmas. That's a real alternative, and unlike the Progress Party, we're doing what we promise. The representative, Mr Schou, believes that new efforts should be made in the revised budget, but she cannot have read her own government's proposals carefully, because there are several new budget lines in the government's revision. We're excited about the continuation of that way of adding bets. Representative Wang Soleim is discussing development. Well, then I could say that the center part is adding 20 million. to the development of democracy. Knowledge and competence are important for the care of Norwegian interests and jobs, throughout the country, close to people.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e2199	The representative Solveig Skauvoll Foss has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e2205	Time flies, and suddenly it is lacking in speaking time, but I am certainly able to draw a little attention to proposal No. 5, about North University. I have a lot of dreams for school. I have strong faith that a school that sees the whole student and meets the need for both learning, nutrition and well-being, and where the exercises take place at school, so that students can have time off in the afternoons and evenings, will create a better society. To get to a good school, we need good, qualified teachers all over the country. Then you also have to be able to learn all over the country, including Helgeland. I am pleased that the whole opposition is behind proposal No. 5th@item: inlistbox Although SV has fallen out of the proposal in some printed versions, we should be in it, and it will be corrected before voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e2210	The two really big challenges we have are greenhouse gas emissions and differences. Unfortunately, the government does little with both. When we know that greenhouse gas emissions need to fall sharply, that we need to create hundreds of thousands of renewable jobs, we cannot bind the Norwegian economy more and more firmly to the oil industry, as the government does. More oil drilling for the climate is just as headless as cut into social arrangements for more people to do better. We need to turn the effort and risk-absorbing onto those who are creating the renewable jobs in the future. Then there'll be something to live on. Not to do it is to gamble with those who come after us, who will both have a globe to live on and work to live off. The representative Gudmundsen was up and talking about school policy and told me there were big social differences between those who came from home where there was high academic education, and those who didn't. You have to think about it a little bit when you cut into the benefits of some of the families who are now elated from redundancy payments to social assistance, and you have to think about those who have lost their housing and who are now so insecure that of course it infects their children – it's unsafe at the place where you live. I don't think there's any good help for the kids who need help to get better at school. I think it's quite frivolous: we know that the proportion of teachers without formal competence has increased by 40 pst. under this Government. The increase in the number of educated teachers that is, we have had to force the government to do. The Christian People's Party has been of good help, but the Right has not wanted these teachers. The party of progress has not wanted the extra teachers they now boast of. This is quite strange to listen to. So finally to lessons: Yes, everyone has to practice. Practice does master. But when we know that homework makes it harder for those students who work the most at school, we can't go on with it. Then we have to rework the system, so that the students can do homework and practice what they need to practice, at school, along with someone who can help them so that they master. Not to do so is to increase the differences between the students and with open eyes look at the fact that those who are struggling today will continue to struggle and have it difficult.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e2221	A few weeks ago, we discussed an important matter in this room, a big message from the government called Possibilities for everyone. There was the great challenge we face in Norwegian society, mentioned. But there were very few concrete proposals in that communication. It was said that it was just a big message, and that it was in budgets and in other contexts you could do something about the inequality. Tax we treat when we adopt the budgets, and the government has been very focused on using the tax system to increase inequalities. But today we have the opportunity to meet some of the other challenges we're facing, and I think people are most concerned about. That more young people can get free school food, and that those in the 1st class who go to SFO get free SFO, will be a good contribution to alleviating the inequalities. Similarly, hospitals need larger appropriations. You don't have to be around the country much until you experience it. The same applies to home services. I think most people are concerned that we're going to spend more money on creating the green jobs, we're totally dependent on that. I think that most people are also concerned that even more women are going to work full-time. Today we have received a new report from the SSB saying that the proportion of women in work is falling. So we might also have to spend money there in the future. Differences are so many, and I have to say that I was a little surprised when I heard the representative Kapur almost railing that we have put broadband on our list of something that contributes to inequality. I recommend a trip north of the Sinsen Cross. You can come up where I live and meet the parents who don't have access to either the Internet or mobile broadband when the kids are going to do their homework. Then you see what lack of broadband actually means for inequality. Then there have been many questions that we want to introduce VAT on imports below 350 kroner, faster than the government wants. One is concerned with investigations, etc. There were not so many who were concerned about it when the bag tax, seat tax and financial tax were introduced, so here the government has nothing to bring. Then we have heard that Norway is doing so well. Yes, we're going to enjoy it, but what we haven't heard about is the big question in this debate that we don't get an answer to: why does the government need to spend so much money? And then the question is, isn't it going so well anyway?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e2236	Instead, I called for more transparency in power and politics. I will now take the floor again to present a proposal by the Greens on openness to different forms of sexual orientation, sexuality and gender expression and identity. The Greens asked this week's presidency that the Stortinge should lift the rainbow flag in connection with the Pride festival here in Oslo tomorrow, 22 June, like many other public buildings. It would be a simple but symbolic way to show that the Storting defends diversity and inclusion and takes a stand against discrimination based on gender identity or sexuality. Yesterday the presidency took a position on this and felt it would not be in line with a flag regulation that they have recently revised. I had to breathe deeply when I saw the answer. The rationale seems very square. Ironically, it's this square and slightly narrow social view of the rainbow flag itself is an inclusive symbol against it. The size should be part of society, not rise above it. Right now, out in the streets, the whole of Norway is celebrating the very basic idea that we're different than humans, and that we're all as glittering no matter what or who you define as. If it is not possible or not possible to lift the rainbow from the top flag bar, where the flag of the State is floating, it must be possible to lift the flag elsewhere on the base of the lion or from buildings we can use. We are four parties that are not represented in the presidency. In addition, yesterday's daily newspaper, the Left Party stated that they would like to vote for the Storting to lift the rainbow flag. In view of the urgent need to clarify this, I am promoting the following proposals today for the debate we have on the revised national budget: ‘The government is flagging the rainbow flag on state buildings where possible in connection with the Pride festival, and the Storting itself will do the same.’ I hope for broad support for diversity and inclusion in voting, and include this proposal. Finally, I wish Stortinget a good summer and thank you for the session.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e2256	The representative of Une Bastholm has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e2261	The government has asked the Storting for a general authorisation to dispose of non-active mining properties. From time to time, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries has received requests for the purchase of repatriated mining property owned by the State. The Storting has previously given consent to the sale authorisation in two specific cases relating to the sale of property in Raudsand in the municipality of Nesset and at Løkken Werk in the municipality of Meldal. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries has also received a request from a private individual at Avaldsnes in the municipality of Karmøy for the purchase of the state's property there. This is a small property that previously was part of the Red-Eye Mine, and that has fallen back to the state. The person who wants to buy already owns the property that surrounds the property of the country and on which he engages in business. In my view, it is both reasonable and appropriate to dispose of property to someone who can use it, when it is not appropriate for the state to make use of the property. Furthermore, I believe that it is both difficult and not effective to ask for individual mandates for each sale. I have therefore proposed a general authorisation to dispose of non-active mining properties. Property where the use of the general authorisation may be appropriate will be linked to small, non-active mining properties where the State does not need to use the property. There may also be cases where other forms of exploitation are very limited and the Ministry of Food and Fisheries does not have or see that there is a State need to exploit the property. The authorisation is in accordance with the model mandate of the Coastal Agency to sell non-nutritional fishing ports. Each case will be assessed in consultation with and on the basis of professional assessments of the Directorate for Mineral Management. We do not want to conflict with the local communities in which the mines are located, and in any process we want to engage in a good dialogue with the municipalities concerned, and emphasise the plans the municipality needs for the use and exploitation of the mine property. If in the future it is appropriate to dispose of all or part of properties that are larger and more complex, the Storting will be briefed on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e2274	When it comes to how the Norwegian economy is going, I think it's crucial to which eyes we see. Norway consists of all of us residents in the country, and then it's quite interesting that an image of everything going so well when we know that 30 pst. the population has become poorer under Erna Solberg. In recent years, three out of ten less disposable income has been taxed. Well, that's absolutely right, and it's even confirmed in the government's own documents from the Ministry of Finance. Those who serve at least in the private sector earn less today than ten years back. These are statistics from the SSB. It is particularly interesting that in a debate at the Political Quarter earlier this winter, Højre's fiscal spokesman said that everyone has gained a lot of growth in their income and purchasing power. It's directly wrong, and it's really quite worrying that what's the largest government party comes with the kind of claims that go completely against Norwegian government statistics. Then the Right and Kapur wondered what was going on to bring down the differences. The most important thing to bring down the differences is that people have regular jobs with proper tariffs. That is the very basis and that makes Norway very much different from the United States. Therefore, Kapur or other representatives from the Right who are concerned about this should agree with the Workers' Party when we propose to strengthen the Code – the Working Environment Act – for just more permanent jobs. But then the same representatives fight back, even if this gives ground to the increasing differences. When I sat here listening to the boast today, I came to think of the debate from the state budget itself in the fall. Then Henrik Asheim thought that what was so fine was that we did not have the same kind of tough political debates in Norway that we now see in other countries, for example in France. But we've had tough debates lately, whether it's about pensioners getting less and less, about toll riots or about women's rights to abortion. The challenge is that debates are becoming increasingly acute as differences continue to increase, so now we need to raise the number of jobs and value creation, improve the balance of trade for mainland Norway, and the differences need to decrease.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e2287	I have to pick up some of the threads that have been thrown into the debate. One of them is the discussion about the bumps and the changes being made there. The reality is that some of those who have lost their lives because they have increased their income in their family, and that's a good thing. But the real policy and priority of the RNB is that one wants to give more security and care for the children. Therefore, the government has an extraordinary investment of 118 million. For the purpose of facilitating the establishment of disadvantaged families with children. That means that 450 difficult-to-use families of children could become bus drivers with a combination of bonuses and start-up loans. It's going to be 66 million. kr more to strengthen the bumps from 1 July, which means that 18 000 families can get up to NOK 8 000 more every one year. At the same time, there is a raised limit for those who qualify for housing, so that about 1,100 households are included. These are real priorities. Then I see in the budget setting that SV refers to them supporting the government's proposal, and that must mean that there is a high talk, one is really behind the real priority that the government has made and that I think is a good priority. Some other threads will not be followed up in this debate. Among other things, Wang Soleim's challenge to the Central Party for their inclusion in the proposal will not be answered. The representative Battle Force Vedum often makes himself tall and dark at talking to the policies that go beyond. I thought it was a good rule, but where is the representative of the Battle of Vedum when he is challenged on the centre party's cut in the EEA funds? Shouldn't he talk to the anti-corruption activists in Hungary that he proposes to take the funds from? What about the LHBT organisations in Slovenia? Shouldn't he have a dialogue with them? Or the students in the country in Romania who receive education because of Norwegian contributions through the EEA scheme – do they seem to be heard and taken seriously, including in the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e2296	I heard the representative Moflag say that the grant scheme had gone away. Yes, it's true that the grant scheme goes away, because it goes into the ordinary grants, but that doesn't mean that the places are gone. But when you're going to be tall and dark, you should at least have done the job yourself, and under the red-greens, this arrangement wasn't there at all. And at the beginning, when this government introduced the scheme, you actually get enough applicants. Then I myself sat on the Health and Care Committee, and I thought it was a little sad that the municipalities did not choose to search and use the places that the government had fought for as a daily activity offer for demente. But now, fortunately, it's a lot of pressure. There's a lot of people who want space, and there'll still be opportunities there. But what I was concerned about was that in addition, you have to make sure to put in place some extra possibilities, and that the Inn on the tunet system is strengthened. And then I realize that the Center Party doesn't want to talk about their cuts, or how to save $1 billion. kr. And what I heard the last representative from the Central Party said was that it was proposed in the budget, so we are now proposing it as well. There's not realism in it, but it's not that dangerous, because as long as we proposed it in the budget, we can just keep proposing it now. I thought it was such that the centre party here in this room made proposals that were realistic and feasible. However, neither the Centre Party nor the Working Party, for the Workers' Party should also remove the 350-kroner limit without realistic implementation. It's especially to use that kind of invading. This means that you would like to use a little more of the oil fund – the Progress Party has never had any challenges with it, but there has been very great resistance both from the Centre Party and not least from the Workers' Party. I even see that the centre party writes in notes that they are critical of taking money from there. So to the representative Svein Roald Hansen, who was concerned about the lack of cost control on road projects: yes, there was a time when there was really a lack of cost control on road projects, it was when the red-green ones crashed. Those years, I sat on the Transport and Communications Committee and saw the costs just sink into the weather. For the first time, it is actually seen that the costs of road projects are lower – to the delight of ordinary people and drivers the most is the lower costs of building more roads, faster and at a higher speed limit, because it is a government and a Minister of Transport who wants to bet and have increased the appropriations by 75 pst. It shows will and initiative. As I said, I'm very happy with what's lying there, and the mood that the red-greens have here is definitely not what I see in people out there. And if the representative Karin Andersen is to have money for all of his good actions – many of them I think are good – we must also get money. That means we have to pump up some oil in the North Sea, because that's what creates the opportunity to provide good welfare arrangements. SV prefers to turn back, and it doesn't provide good welfare arrangements to most people.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e2313	The representative, Tuva Moflag, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e2318	It was the red-green who set up the grant scheme, and it was the red-green ones, with the support of the Christian People's Party, who made sure that the grant was increased from 30 p.m. to 50 pst. – against the representative Hoksrud and the votes of his party. These are the two proposals that the parties voted down two weeks ago – first proposal No. 1:@item: inlistbox Adjective, language ‘The Government requests the continuation of the ear-marked pre-arrangement scheme for the creation of day-care facilities for home-building people with dementia until a defensive provision of day-care facilities has been created in the municipalities in line with Demenplan 2020.’ The second proposal voted down by the Government Parties is as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that the legalisation of municipalities’ obligations to provide day-to-day activities to home-building people with dementia is fully financed.’ So then it remains to be seen.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e2336	The representative Wang Soleim went to the pulpit here instead, put his face in serious folders and showed that the centre party has cut half a billion dollars in EEA funds in its alternative to RNB and will also provide people in Norway with a lower electricity charge. Finally, one could, for example: used by the extra billion that one has taken in dividends from Statkraft because there have been record high electricity prices, and returned it to people in Norway in the form of a lower electricity charge. This is a clear containment that the Center Party has. The government wants to keep the money in the state treasury instead, not to reduce the use of oil money, but to spend the money on other things. To the cut in EEA funds: the centre party should probably have cut more in the EEA funds than we have done. So this is an amount of billions of dollars each year. It is not about whether we are going to participate in international cooperation or whether we are going to show support and assistance to other countries. Norway has a large aid budget, which we contribute to different countries and which we can also contribute to these countries. The EEA funds have become a huge system without control, where there is money for bird-cage projects, there is money for fencing between people in Viking equipment, and where there is money to celebrate the day of the game! We need to be in control of how we use public funds. That we have to pay money to be part of a trade agreement is completely unreasonable. It is just as unreasonable as the way in which the majority of Stortinget gives the EU more and more power over Norwegian fiscal policies by subjecting the Norwegian Financial Supervisory Authority to the EU and by placing vital parts of Norwegian energy policy in the hands of the EU by joining the third energy market package and accepting ACER. It is an unwise policy for Norway. What one should thank the Norwegian people, however, is that we have freedom of action as a country because the Norwegian people have not followed the Right, the Labour Party and other parties who wanted us into the EU. However, the fact that we are outside the EU, have a currency of our own, and still can govern our own country in important areas, means that we should also in future ensure that national sovereignty is restored and become part of proper international cooperation based on equivalence.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e2347	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e2352	First to the representative Hoksrud, who is willing to gamble with future to our young people. We're going to cut greenhouse gas emissions in the future, we're going to create jobs, and we're going to make money, and then we can't continue the way we're going now. Then the climate is destroyed, and the workplaces are abroad. It's stupid. It doesn't want SV to be on. We want to take control, so that these jobs come here, that we cut greenhouse gas emissions, and that we make money. To the representative of Groethaug, who has been up in the pulpit and who could not have read what is in this setting. I look up ‘Dwelling and housing measures’, and it says that housing aid is reduced by 22 million. kr. Yes, there are some people who get increases, but in sum it decreases. So it says, let's cut rental homes by 252 million. kr. This is no bet on housing for those who have difficulty.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e2359	The representative, Vetle Wang Soleim, has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e2364	I would like to have more speaking time, but to the Central Party on EEA funds: the EU is a Community project. Common challenges are best addressed in common. Cross-border problems need to be addressed across borders, such as labour-related crime, climate, taxation of international companies, competition and how we can cope with migration and uncertainty. For the right, it will always be important that we participate in international solidarity, including within the European Union. The EU is one of the world’s largest solidarity projects because one manages to cope with challenges that one has. If the Center Party thinks one could cut even more, yes, why don't they? Show all hands and cut everything! To put it this way: the EEA Agreement gives Norway so much more back than we contribute through these funds. We get access to schemes that we could only dream about otherwise. It is a pity that this is how the Centre Party wants to contribute to the European Community.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e2373	I would like to comment a little bit on this with the EEA funds. It is wrong what the representative Sigbjørn Gülsvik says, that we pay for a trade agreement. The EEA funds are not a prerequisite for the EEA; it is a voluntary scheme agreed upon in order to participate in social and economic cohesion in Europe. And as the economy of the countries receiving aid grows, they will fall out of the scheme. Spain is an example of that. Then we know that the Center Party is against the agreement, and that – I would almost say – is as it is, but Norway has concluded an agreement, ratified in Stortinget. Does the Central Party believe that Norway is going to become a country that departs from agreements when governments change? Or should we stand by the agreements? Are we going to be like Donald Trump, or are we going to stick to the tradition that we've always had, that we're going to be the government change, are we going to stick to the agreements that the previous government has made? That is the important principle in this debate. The fact that the Centre Party has cut these funds each year in its budgets is a sign that it is reorienting itself in the face of international commitments. You can be against the projects you've agreed on, but that's not the point. The point is, are we to trust as a nation, or are we not?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e2380	14 days ago, the President used his double voice for the first time, because it began to be so unpleasant to the Progress Party when meeting his own trustees, to make the consequences of his own policies visible. Prime Minister Erna Solberg then chose to call the President of the Land and say: Dear President of the Land, please move the discussion about tolls a few weeks away from the National Government meeting! The President-in-Office of the Grand Duchy was then put under a severe pressure. It was probably very unpleasant and a little embarrassing to have to use his double voice to move the debate. The result on Wednesday was no change in reality in policy. This was just to try to avoid having the debate around your own national government meeting. That was the result. At the national meeting in the Progress Party, there was a great deal of talk about reducing the toll burden on Norwegian drivers by 200 million in the revised national budget. kr – a huge breakthrough. Then we see what's in the revised national budget. Well, you're going to have to go in 430 million first. kr from two OPS projects, and then EUR 200 million. kr back. If you hadn't made any changes, it would have been 230 million. tolls less before the budget than they are after the budget. Once again, the Progress Party is more concerned with communication, more concerned with games, and forgetting the content. So when this is adopted today, there is more toll than before the decisions today – again with the Progress Party at the head. This is the same in terms of charging policy. The party that progressed later as if they were charged, but then they increased the fees by more than 5 billion. kr – that’s a fact – and electricity charges have increased by 34 pst, which Norwegian consumers have to pay every day. It affects those with the lowest incomes, hardest – the policy of the Progress Party. We have seen in the debate earlier today that Prime Minister Erna Solberg cannot distance himself from the unwise statement by Monica Mæland that all municipalities with less than 5,000 inhabitants do not have the right to life. She was challenged directly, but does not distance herself from it. Trine Skei Grande said earlier in the spring that these municipalities were to be considered as coshe clubs. In those cos clubs, more than 50,000 people work — nurses, teachers, kindergarten staff — doing a good job every day. As we approach the end of the session, it is therefore important to actually discuss this in the municipal elections. But Monica Mæland has just said that she thinks we should discuss it after the municipal elections, because she knows that if you discuss it in the municipal elections, it becomes uncomfortable, because people don't want the centralization that the government stands for. In this debate, Erna Solberg has had the opportunity to distance itself from the opinion that all municipalities of less than 5000 inhabitants are too small. Those municipalities are good, good communities around the whole of Norway, and they should survive, not collide.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e2395	The President will refer only to Section 7 of the Rules of Procedure. There is nothing about the double vote of the Grand President, but if, after a vote, the presidency has equal votes in favour and against, the vote of the Grand President is decisive.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e2400	Towards the end of the debate, I thought it might be a point of spending some time on something we should actually have done right before summer, namely, dealing with social security, which is a long tradition. But it has come to an end during this government because it is too unpleasant, especially for the Progress Party, to have that kind of open and thorough treatment of social security. It has now been under-regulated for several years, so that especially older people with low pensions have experienced the need to tighten the lifeline, get zero settlement on zero settlement, this year a total of 35 kroner more to live for a month – while the richest ones are getting richer, while the highest wages are moving away, and while the majority of the population grant themselves a solid wage increase. It would have been possible to do something about this. Today, the Stortinget deals with proposals submitted by SV and several other parties, to stop underregulation, to introduce negotiating rights, so that it would be possible for pensioners’ organisations to negotiate, among other things. a fairer distribution, and not least to have a full treatment of social security at a meaningful time in the United Kingdom. All of this is against the bourgeois parties. It's probably an abused opportunity to clean up what makes so many pensioners feel failed by the majority of the Storting. That is why so many traveled from all over the country to participate in the big protest outside the Storting two weeks ago. Towards the end of this debate, I think it is important to note that the government parties once again vote in favour of such a pension policy. They will continue to blame for the pension reform. It's a lot wrong to say about it, but it's quite possible for a majority who will do something about it, to stop underregulation. Otherwise, it is now at the end of the last debate in this session time to wish the government good summer. They're in a situation where we know they're busy and they're going to keep busy. The representative of Trond Helleland has used this debate to talk about the chaos. I think we get to prove every day who is the chaos in Norwegian politics. They're the ones that are in control right now. It'll be exciting to see if we're faltering at new government crises next week or not. There's been a lot of it. While the government is doing that, we are going to start a campaign that is about what is most important to people in Norway right now, namely to respond to the public unrest associated with increasing inequality and climate crisis. We're going to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e2415	Erna Solberg has promised that the majority government will be open to recording and also listen to the Stortinget. When it was said, I had my doubts, and I warned against an Erna field – largely, it has turned out, rightly. On a case-by-case basis, proposals have been made that could make Norway a better country — which could reduce the differences, get more people to join trade unions, overcome sexual harassment in the workplace. This has been routinely voted down by the government parties Right, Advance Party, Left and Christian People's Party. They have even voted down proposals that they themselves agreed on when they were in opposition. I think the same thing is going to happen at today's voting, but until the fall, fortunately, people can tell from what they think about that policy of government, which is being conducted in the municipalities. There has been an uprising against government policy in very many areas. To mention everyone I don't have time for, but two areas I want to mention. One is the AAP uprising, where there was no particular response from the Prime Minister to whether she understands the problems facing those who are now losing the order. The second is pension and social security, where a number of proposals from us and other parties are being made in the hall today to allow pensioners to have a good purchasing power development, in order to prevent them from losing purchasing power again, as has happened in many previous consecutive settlements. At the same time, we have managed to crack at least one code today. We were told that the government parties will vote in favour of the proposal that Red took the initiative yesterday, and that we got MDG and SV on, that we should treat football World Cup and football-EM for women in a non-discriminatory manner, so that everyone can watch all the games for free on TV. There's at least a wide deal, to say it like that. We get a victory in Stortinget for football today and hope for a victory for the national football team tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e2424	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e2438	Communication challenges in the north have been on the agenda for several years and are a priority theme for the government. The lack of stable communication in the north creates challenges for, inter alia: maritime safety, defence activities and opportunities for industrial development. The government therefore promoted last year's proposal to the Stortinget to provide Space Norway AS with a contingent commitment to equity, limited up to 139 million. U.S. dollars. The purpose of this undertaking was to enable Space Norway to complete negotiations in order to establish satellite broadband communications in the north. The majority joined the proposal on 4 June last year. The commitment was made subject to the fact that the project is not initiated until revenue is secured throughout the project period, all customers cover their share of investment and operating costs, the project generates the desired return, adequate liquidity is ensured, and the project takes care of the defence’s need for military broadband under Norwegian control. The Economic and Social Committee stated in its Opinion that ‘the government must return to the Storting whose fulfilment of these criteria creates disproportionate delays in the progress of the project, in order to carry out safety and emergency-related tasks of authority’. Since June last year, Space Norway has been negotiating with customers, suppliers and banks, with the aim of a project meeting Stortinget's terms and conditions. There have been demanding negotiations until the last few days, but Space Norway has now presented a business case. I now want to brief you briefly about the government's assessments of the project. Contracts have been signed with customers that ensure income flow throughout the project period, which is 15 years old. This includes agreement with the Ministry of Defence, which ensures the defence's need for military broadband under Norwegian control. The project appears today at a slightly higher risk for equity than that envisaged in Prop. 55 S for 2017-2018. Some risks assumed to be insured in the basis material of the proposition have proved impossible to insure. Nor has it been possible to achieve agreements that ensure the pro rata distribution of all possible cost increases. In some scenarios, therefore, equity bears a higher risk than that foreseen in a strict interpretation in Prop. 55 S. There is also uncertainty about when customer payments are to be taxed, which may affect the liquidity of the project. However, this risk has been assessed to be low. The government assesses the return on the project to be commercial, although it is unlikely that the margin will be narrow. The government also considers that the expected return to owner is acceptable against risk. There are few business cases where as much revenue, investments and costs as have been agreed on in this project. Financial buffers have also been introduced. If the project progresses as expected, it will meet all the conditions of the Storing. However, there are some scenarios in which not all conditions can be fully met. Furthermore, a project like this will always have a certain technical risk, but nothing higher than in other, similar, projects. It's important that someone now makes a decision. In the event of deferral, there is a risk that the project will become significantly more expensive, so that it will not be possible to obtain commercial returns. In the worst case, the project may be terminated as a result of the withdrawal of one of the main customers. We now have the opportunity to put communication in place in the northern regions in a way that is more reasonable than alternative solutions. The Government has therefore made an overall assessment of the business case and weighed the risk associated with the remaining uncertainties about full fulfilment of all the conditions against the risk of the project not being implemented. My understanding is that this is in line with Stortinget's desire to put in place a system to ensure the performance of safety and preparedness-related tasks in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e2455	The President will now propose, pursuant to the second paragraph of Section 45 of Storting’s Rules of Procedure, that a brief comment round be opened, limited to one post of up to 5 minutes from each party group and one closing post from the Council of State. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e2462	I thank the Council of State for the handout. This post will be held on behalf of the Labour Party, the Right, the Progress Party, the Centre Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party. Saka om Space Norway was treated in Stortinget in June 2018. Proposals in the proposal were adopted in agreement. After this, there was a new debate on the subject as a result of a proposal from the representatives of Lysbakken and Moxnes. The proposal was about the military part of the project and was not accepted. Today the case applies if the statements and criteria that the Storting has seen for the implementation of the project are met. In this context, I refer to the distribution that the Minister of Industry has just given. There are no objections to it. The final decisions of the project are the government, not the Storing. I would like to stress, however, that there is an exposure to and a wish for the project to be carried out.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e2471	Last 4 June, Stortinget voted to make a conditional commitment of just over 1 billion. kr to Space Norway to secure satellite broadband in the northern regions. Of course, Red voted in favour of this. But then, two days later, the NRK revealed that the US military had other plans for the use of the Norwegian satellites. In a Congress hearing last year, General John W. Raymond said that there is a so-called partnership between the United States and the Norwegian military on satellite communications for use in the north. The partnership means that the US should be able to use the Norwegian satellites for its offensive nuclear programme. In the documents from the government on the matter, it is mentioned in a statement in the proposition that allied use of the satellites is open, but there is nothing about any concept of the U.S. nuclear program. It's a little eye-catching and a little weak, and today the Council of State doesn't mention anything about the US military and their involvement in this project. The consequences of this can be serious. American military says that the purpose of making other countries carry communications equipment for the U.S. nuclear program on their satellites is to push the risk of counterattacks across these countries. According to open American sources, there is a significant risk that countries that feel threatened by the U.S. offensive nuclear weapons systems may attack the satellites that provide communication to these nuclear weapons systems. In our case, we're talking about Norwegian satellites, and it can make Norwegian broadband access in the northern regions much more vulnerable than necessary. This was the background to the proposal that Red promoted with SV last year, to stop the project until the government had explained the military use of the satellites, and that they could not be used by other countries' nuclear weapons systems. The proposal was rejected by the majority of the population, the government and the Minister of Industry, with what was almost an ultimatum from the latter: either the Stortinget accepts the project on these premises, or the people of the north, fisheries, shipping and research do not have access to proper communication. Our position is firm. We're against what's a security policy experiment, which consists of linking Norway to the U.S. nuclear war program, and we're asking that we get enough information from the government here in the main hall. I would therefore like to conclude with a question to the Council of State, and I would like to have a clear and clear answer, as the Council of State did not mention the U.S. nuclear programme in its presentation: Can we get a guarantee that the satellites cannot be used by the U.S. nuclear program?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e2488	First, in isolation, I thought it was neat for the government to come to the Storting, and since the wording of the decision was so clear, it is in place to come here when there is uncertainty about the project. On the other hand, it's no surprise that one can't get the economy of this project that one had thought. We have to remember the history here – here it was basically an impact statement from Kongsberg that was sent to the department. Since it was such a big expense, it was subject to the billing instructions. Activates the concept evaluation, KS1, KS2, etc. What they concluded was that there was not enough money in the project to provide the guarantees that one should have. It was the conclusion after the distribution, which one is required to follow. But what was exceptional in this matter was that one went on with the project even though the distribution showed that there was not enough economic and social relevance in it. So then one went back to the original edition to Kongsberg and went on with it. Afterwards, it has been shown that there were a number of statements that were not included in the statement as one is supported by the statement. the involvement and extra-economic impact of the US defence agreement. Even the publishers were not informed about this, but there was something about the department – which department I don't know, but at least those who were involved in this project – were aware of. The editors didn't know about it, and when we were dealing with this in Stortinget, it was only a sub-phrase – it wasn't even a separate sentence, it was just part of a sentence – where it found that it could be relevant with something military in this project. But the whole heading here was that this was a strengthening of civil protection in the northern regions, and who in all the world is not in agreement with it – we have a challenge in the first place with preparedness in the northern regions, so this was fantastic. Then it turns out that very much of the basis for this funding was actually cooperation with American defence, where they're going to use these satellites for their own purposes, both as part of NATO cooperation and entirely on their own, i.e. renting space on satellites for communication equipment, operating submarines connected to nuclear weapons programs, etc. – those parts of the U.S. defense. The editors did not know, and the Storting was kept away from this information. Congress in the United States knew all about this, Congress in the United States even knew what agreements one had with Norway long before this came to Norway. State Council Bakke-Jensen still has the advantage of informing Stortingen about this. So this whole thing is pretty sad, and she was drawn up, as the representative of Moxnes was inside, last year. To a principleally oriented greatness, one said, "People, here's one has not followed up the editors, here's a come with a statement that the Storting has not been informed about at all, nor the editors; of course, we have to wait for this. But we didn't get along with that, and it was a pretty massive plural that experienced this as some kind of NATO criticism. One didn't look at it in principle. This has been a bit of a process to follow – it has not been the Storting at its best. But I would also like to say that when Councillor Røe Isaksen comes and informs about his part of this project, I think it is good – it is good that such distributions are held in Stortinget and that Stortinget is informed. But I have to say that I am a little over the Ministry of Defence in this matter, and also as a member of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, I can say that I am not the only one who has stumbled over the Ministry of Defence in many cases. What is it with the Ministry of Defence and the Stortinget? Why is it so difficult for the Ministry of Defence to inform Stortinget? In Denmark, the Ministry of Defence informs its own elected level far more than the Norwegian Ministry of Defence does in Norway. Here it's about keeping as far away from the Storing as possible. I think, in several things that are going to happen now, there's going to be an ever-increasing problem for that department. Then I would point a finger at the Minister of Defense and simply say that as the Council of State is a government man in the department, but not the department's husband in the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e2505	In fact, the last haranang from the representative Fylkesnes was so meaningless that it approaches unworthy the role he has in this office. As a customer of this project, the Ministry of Defence is concerned that we should be able to obtain a communication capacity for the Defence. The only thing that has been revealed in view of the case that was brought before Stortinget is that when the Ministry of Defence writes “allierte”, it also includes the United States. That is what surprised SV when the matter was presented to Stortinget earlier. It's a project that's promised, it's good, it's a collaboration between the civil and military sectors, it's a cooperation between allies to provide an important broadband capacity in the north. So it's been tried with a bunch of questions of international law. No satellites have any special protection in international law. The problems with GPS jamming on the Finnmark coast are actually a glittering example that if someone wants to disrupt that kind of communication, they can, whether civil or military. This is a good project, it's a complicated project, and it's been working a lot on it. Now the Minister of Industry comes here with the last frames around the business environment. I think that's very good. From the Ministry of Defence's side, we see this as an important project. We also see it as a project we have great confidence in, with the investigations we have made as a customer.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e2514	Today's presentation is about the business side of this. That's the economy of what we're doing today, but the reason I've asked to explain the Storting on short notice is that in some scenarios, if you interpret the assumptions of the Storing strictly, it can be that the assumptions are not met. I am very pleased with the clear feedback from the majority in Stortinget. So it's, as it's also emphasised, ultimately the government's decision on capital, and it's the board's decision to conclude the final business cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e2519	The debate on the presentation is thus closed. The President will propose that the Minister of Industry's statement on Space Norway AS and satellite communications projects in the northern regions be annexed to the Protocol. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e2533	Before we go to voting, state councillor Torbjørn Røe Isaksen will transfer 9 kgl. propositions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e2548	A total of 50 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Rigmor Aasrud on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party proposal No 2, from Rigmor Aasrud on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Environment Party of the Greens and Reds the proposals No 3-6, from Rigmor Aasrud on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party proposal No 7, from Rigmor Aasrud on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and Red the proposals No 8-12, from Rigmor Aasrud on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party the proposals No 13 and 14, from Rigmor Aasrud on behalf of the Workers' Party the proposals No 15–18, from Sigbjørn Gülsvik on behalf of the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party the proposals No 19–22, from Solvency Skagvoll Foss on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, the Green and Red Party the proposals No 23-26, from Sigbjørn Gælsvik on behalf of the Centre Party proposal No 27, from Björn Moxnes on behalf of the Green and Red Environment Party proposal No 28, from Solvency Skagvoll Foss on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 29, from the Bears of the Moxnes on behalf of the Red the proposals No 30 to 34, from Sigbjørn Gælsvik on behalf of the Centre Party proposal No 35, from Björnar Moxnes on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, the Greens and Reds the proposals No 36 to 44, from Björn Moxnes on behalf of Red the proposals No 45 to 49, from Rigmor Aasrud on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No 50, from Une Bastholm on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA There is a vote on proposal No. 50, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to flag the rainbow flag on state buildings where possible in connection with the Pride festival and the Storting itself will do the same.’ The Socialist Left and Red have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e2620	There is a vote on proposal No. 49, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to assess the consequences of non-discrimination between persons admitted to psychiatric hospital wards and those admitted to somatic hospital wards, so that both patient groups are exempted from the reduction of their benefits from popular protection. The Government is requested to return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner, with an assessment of total, possibly partial, non-discrimination.» The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e2637	There is a vote on proposal No. 48, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for proposals to amend the regulatory principles for current pensions so that pensioners in the regulation of pensions do not lose purchasing power in the year in which employees have positive purchasing power developments and present a case on the right to talk in social security settlement with assessments of the potential for re-priorities in the current framework of social security settlement and of the changes that can be made in order to increase the ability of pensioners’ organisations to influence the priorities of the social security settlement set.’ The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e2654	There is a vote on proposal No. 47, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the earmarking of 3 million. SEK of the information work of the Psychiatric Students for young people shall be continued in the budget for 2019.» [[POFU]] The Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Green Party have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e2671	There is a vote on proposal No. 46, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a right of activity test for all beneficiaries of social assistance where qualitatively good content is also offered that equips individuals for working life and establishes a state support scheme for such tests in selected municipalities. The tests should preferably be carried out in municipalities offering a qualification programme and linked to it.’» The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e2689	There is a vote on proposal No. 45, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked by the government to investigate and propose changes to the Labour Environment Act clarifying the concept of employee and employer». The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e2706	There is a vote on proposal No. 44, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to launch an independent investigation into the use of coercive funds by the Police Department in the light of forced return of families and minors to Afghanistan.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e2723	There is a vote on proposal No. 43, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that Andøya Aviation Station is maintained as the basis for Norwegian defence maritime surveillance, in the light of the fact that new information indicates that the choice of Evenes as the basis for maritime surveillance was made on a failed or false basis.’ The Central Party, the Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e2740	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 40 to 42, from Red. Proposal No. 40 sounds: ‘The size asks the government to redeploy the increased allocation of the capacity-enhancing motorway project E18 Lysaker-Ramstadsletta, which will further increase an already high toll burden, to collective development projects and railway projects’.» Proposal No. 41 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that oil and gas found via the light well Snad Outer Outer/Black Vulture southwest of the Norne field at the Helgeland coast is not extracted.’ Proposal No. 42 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to stop the expansion of wind farms in unspoiled nature on land in Norway.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e2769	There is a vote on proposal No. 39, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests that the air ambulance standby be secured by the necessary measures in the short and long term and ensure that the contract between the Air ambulance service HF and Babcock Scandinavian Air Ambulance AB is cancelled if the new operator is unable to deliver in line with the contract concluded and ensure proper operation and maintenance at the operator’s exchange on 1 July.’; The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e2786	There is a vote on proposal No. 38, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to withdraw its assessment of the suspension of NorthConnect concession treatment and to reject the concession application.’ The Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e2804	There is a vote on proposal No. 37, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that Ullevål team, which is an offer to pregnant and birthing with complex issues, such as mental health problems, intoxication and/or a difficult life situation, does not lose one of two midwife positions, and that maternity care and midwifery positions are not removed from the ABC unit on Ullevål.’ The Central Party, the Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e2821	There is a vote on proposal No. 36, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure the staffing of the maternity wards and other necessary offers for birthing women during the summer months, taking into account that the number of births is often higher in the summer than elsewhere in the year.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e2838	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 33 and 34, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 33 sounds: «The government is asked to propose a change in the regulatory principle from 2020 to the actual average of wage and price developments in connection with the regulation of pensions in autumn 2019.» Proposal No. 34 sounds: ‘The Government requests the amendment of the AAP regime to allow for an extension of more than three years when the medical situation of the applicant is unclear. In addition, the extension should be granted to young people under the age of 25 who need more work training. Decision-making and, where appropriate, decision-making rights the extension of the AAP period must lie with the local Nav Office.’;» The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e2862	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 31 and 32, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 31 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government for all possible cost reductions in the E39 Klett-Bårdshaug project to benefit from reduced tolls.’ Proposal No. 32 sounds: ‘The government is asked to go through the project E18 West Corridor with a view to monthly cost reductions and reduced tolls for the car list.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e2886	There is a vote on proposal No. 30, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked by the government for all possible cost reductions in the project rv. 3/rev. 25 Ommangsvolen – Grundset/Basthjørnet will benefit the drivers through reduced tolls.’ The Labour Party and Red have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e2904	There is a vote on proposal No. 29, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2019 is amended as follows: Cape. Post Subject matter Krona 21 Government Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 7000000 from NOK 190 200000 to NOK 197 200000 61 Supreme Court Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 1 600 000 from NOK 112 195 000 to NOK 113 795000 116 International organisations 70 Compulsory contributions shall be reduced by: 40,000,000 from NOK 1605 201000 to NOK 1565 201000 117 The EEA Financial Mechanisms 77 The EEA Financial Mechanism 2014-2021 may be transferred, reduced by: 250,000,000 from NOK 1559000000 to NOK 1309000000 78 The Norwegian Financial Mechanism 2014-2021 may be transferred, reduced by: 380,000,000 from NOK 1,218000000 to NOK 838/000000 118 Foreign policy bets 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, may be used under items 70, 71, 72 and 73, increased by: 2000000 from NOK 85 532 000 to NOK 87 532 000 74 Research, dialogue and human rights, etc. , is reduced by: 2000000 from NOK 45 583 000 to NOK 43 583 000 140 Ministry of Foreign Affairs Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 10 294,000 from NOK 1573 979 000 to NOK 1563 685 000 144 Norwegian Exchange Cooperation Centre [[Norec]] Exchange arrangements may be transferred, reduced by: 57,000,000 from NOK 142000000 to NOK 85000000 151 Peace, security and global cooperation 71 Global security issues and disarmament may be transmitted, reduced by: 532,000 from NOK 282 700000 to NOK 282 168 000 73 United Nations and global challenges, can be transmitted, reduced by: 8,800,000 from NOK 292 300000 to NOK 283 500000 152 Human rights 70 Human rights, can be transferred, increased by: 1000000 from NOK 535 157 000 to NOK 536 157 000 159 Regional appropriations 71 Europe and Central Asia can be transferred, reduced by: 4,031,000 from NOK 675 674 000 to NOK 671 643 000 72 Afghanistan, may be transferred, reduced by: 24000000 from NOK 574 500000 to NOK 550 500000 75 Africa, may be transferred, reduced by: 20,000,000 from NOK 1015 584 000 to NOK 995 584 000 77 Latin America, may be transferred, reduced by: 350000 from NOK 130 350000 to NOK 126 850000 161 Education, research and professional cooperation 70 Education, may be transferred, reduced by: 40 960,000 from NOK 2764 456 000 to NOK 2723 496 000 72 The knowledge bank and technical cooperation may be transferred, increased by: 2000000 from NOK 861 714 000 to NOK 863 714 000 162 Enterprise development, agriculture and renewable energy 70 Enterprise development and trade may be carried over, reduced by: 75,000,000 from NOK 621 700000 to NOK 546 700000 71 Food security and agriculture can be transferred, reduced by: 11,000,000 from NOK 1091 966 000 to NOK 1080 966 000 75 NORFUND - loss disposal, increased by: 75,000,000 from NOK 468 750000 to NOK 543 750000 163 Climate, Environment and the Sea 45 Major equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred; 22 750 000 from NOK 37 900 000 to NOK 60 650000 164 Equivalence 70 Equality may be transferred, increased by: 44,000,000 from NOK 372 219 000 to NOK 416 219 000 171 UN Development Work 72 Other grants [[FN]] 500000 from NOK 1996 700000 to NOK 196 200000 179 Refugee measures in Norway 21 Special operating costs are increased by: 112 267,000 from NOK 550,062 000 to NOK 662,329000 200 Ministry of Knowledge Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 889 000 from NOK 382 440000 to NOK 383 329000 201 Analysis and knowledge base 21 Special operating costs are increased by: 1 185000 from NOK 40 671000 to NOK 41 856 000 220 Directorate of Education 70 Supplements to educational material, etc. , may be transferred, may be used under item 21, increased by: 20,000,000 from NOK 68 705000 to NOK 88 705000 225 Basic training measures 64 Contributions to the training of children and young people seeking residence in Norway are increased by: 17 201,000 from NOK 52 991000 to NOK 70 192 000 68 Subsidies for training in criminal services are increased by: 3,828,000 from NOK 294,663 000 to NOK 298,491000 74 Project grants shall be reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 10 195 000 to NOK 9 195 000 226 Quality development of initial training 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, increased by: 25,000,000 from NOK 1 177 918 000 to NOK 1 202 918 000 71 Grants to knowledge centres shall be increased by: 6,700,000 from NOK 67,075000 to NOK 73,775000 228 Grants to independent schools, etc. 77 The German school in Oslo, the estimate, is increased by 3,000,000 from NOK 24 615000 to NOK 27 615000 230 State Special Educational Support System Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 3,000,000 from NOK 714 323,000 to NOK 717 323 000 231 Kindergartens 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, may be used under item 51, reduced by: 3185000 from NOK 457,516,000 to NOK 454,331000 241 Joint actions for the vocational education sector 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, increased by: 12 568 000 from NOK 17 031 000 to NOK 29 599 000 70 Other transfers, may be used under item 21, reduced by: 12 568 000 from NOK 12 568 000 to NOK 0 251 22 July Centre 1 Operating costs, granted by: [[New]] 700000 252 EU education and youth programme 70 Grants shall be reduced by: 13 757,000 from NOK 656 136 000 to NOK 642 379 000 253 Higher Education Colleges 70 Grants to higher education institutions shall be increased by: 5000000 from NOK 898 926 000 to NOK 903 926 000 256 Competence Norway Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 500000 from NOK 64 258 000 to NOK 63 758 000 258 Measures for lifelong learning 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, may be used under item 1, increased by: 680,000 from NOK 214 844 000 to NOK 221 724 000 260 Universities and higher education institutions 50 State universities and higher education institutions are reduced by: 627 000 from NOK 35 632 559 000 to NOK 35 631 932 000 70 Private higher education institutions are increased by: 9000000 from NOK 1578 967 000 to NOK 1587 967 000 270 International mobility and social purposes for students 75 Grants for the construction of student housing may be transferred, reduced by: 298 466 000 from NOK 662,779 000 to NOK 364,313 000 280 Common Units 50 The Directorate for Internationalisation and Quality Development in Higher Education shall be increased by: 20 500000 from NOK 450 293 000 to NOK 470 793 000 51 UNIT - Directorate for ICT and Joint Services in Higher Education and Research will be increased by: 19 900 000 from NOK 157 654 000 to NOK 177 554 000 281 Joint actions for universities and higher education Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be used under heading 70, increased by: 15,000,000 from NOK 195 742 000 to NOK 210 742 000 285 Norwegian Research Council 55 Business costs are reduced by: 21 500000 from NOK 792 543 000 to NOK 771 043 000 287 Research institutes and other activities 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, may be used under item 71, reduced by: 400000 from NOK 6845000 to NOK 645000 288 International cooperation actions 72 International basic research organisations are increased by: 13 551 000 from NOK 286 405000 to NOK 299,956000 73 The EU Framework Programme for Research and Innovation may be transferred, increased by: 134 082,000 from NOK 2 240 253 000 to NOK 2 374 335000 75 UNESCO quota shall be reduced by: 2 146 000 from NOK 22 793 000 to NOK 20 647 000 290 Directorate for Integration and Diversity Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 2861 000 from NOK 264 480000 to NOK 267 341000 291 Residence of refugees and measures for immigrants 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, increased by: 7 600 000 from NOK 53 815000 to NOK 61 415000 60 Integration grants, may be transferred, increased by: 85 600 000 from NOK 8 983 088 000 to NOK 9 068 688 000 61 Specific grant for the settlement of lone minor refugees, the estimate is increased by: 2,400,000 from NOK 2 283 887 000 to NOK 2 286 287 000 62 Municipal migration measures are reduced by: 8,630,000 from NOK 269 652,000 to NOK 261 022 000 71 Grants to migrant organisations and other voluntary activities are reduced by: 1,300,000 from NOK 134 953 000 to NOK 133 653 000 73 Grants shall be increased by: 400000 from NOK 14 641000 to NOK 15 041000 292 Norwegian and community education for adult immigrants 60 Grants for training in Norwegian and social skills for adult immigrants are increased by: 18 700 000 from NOK 1425 376 000 to NOK 1444 076 000 300 Ministry of Culture Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 1 330,000 from NOK 170 252 000 to NOK 171 582 000 315 Voluntary objectives 21 Research, investigation and special operating costs may be transferred, increased by: 5000000 from NOK 6 130 000 to NOK 11 130 000 82 VAT compensation for the construction of sports facilities is increased by: 105 000 000 from NOK 189 400000 to NOK 294 400000 325 General cultural purposes 21 Research, investigation and specific operational expenditure may be carried over, reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 28 920000 to NOK 27 920000 326 Language, literature and library purposes Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 100000 from NOK 641 287 000 to NOK 641 187 000 73 Language organisations shall be increased by: 100000 from NOK 26 790000 to NOK 26 890000 328 Museum and visual art 70 The national museum network shall be increased by: 15,000,000 from NOK 1747 630000 to NOK 1762 630000 334 Film uses, etc. Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 1,550 000 from NOK 112,055000 to NOK 113,605000 50 The Film Fund shall be reduced by: 1,550 000 from NOK 520 160000 to NOK 518 610000 352 Impairment of functionality 21 Special operating costs may be used under item 71, reduced by: 330,000 from NOK 15 060 000 to NOK 14 730000 400 Ministry of Justice and Defence Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 400000 from NOK 468 178 000 to NOK 467 778 000 23 Special operational expenditure, research, evaluation and knowledge acquisition may be transferred, increased by: 1000000 from NOK 30 280 000 to NOK 31 280 000 70 Transfers to private individuals are increased by: 1,300,000 from NOK 10 206 000 to NOK 11 506 000 410 Courts of Justice Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 29 600 000 from NOK 2540 629 000 to NOK 2570 229 000 21 Special operating costs are increased by: 10000000 from NOK 71 935000 to NOK 81 935000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Protective matters/side costs, land change courts, may be transferred, reduced by: 3,862,000 from NOK 6 735 000 to NOK 2 873 000 430 Crime prevention services Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 1 011,000 from NOK 4559 896 000 to NOK 4558 885 000 440 Police Directorate - the Police and Len’s Seat Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 146 663,000 from NOK 18 016 648 000 to NOK 18 163 311000 21 Special operating costs are reduced by: 25 920,000 from NOK 139 507 000 to NOK 113 587 000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Search for marine casualties, in lakes and watercourses, may be transmitted, increased by: 2811,000 from NOK 9 189 000 to NOK 12000000 25 Return of asylum-seekers with refusals and other non-residents without a legal stay, estimates, is reduced by: 25 418 000 from NOK 128 533 000 to NOK 103 115 000 444 Police security service [[PST]] Operating costs are increased by: 172,000,000 from NOK 890 983 000 to NOK 1 062 983 000 445 Higher Public Prosecutor's Office Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 120000 from NOK 262 057 000 to NOK 263 307 000 451 Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be used under cap. 456 entry 1 is increased by: 11 517,000 from NOK 760 355000 to NOK 771 872 000 453 Civil Clearing Authority Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 1 400000 from NOK 31 927 000 to NOK 33 327 000 454 Rescue helicopter service Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 45,000,000 from NOK 690 652,000 to NOK 735 652 000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, reduced by: 456 769 000 from NOK 3094 510000 to NOK 2637 741000 455 Rescue services Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 1 100000 from NOK 109 258 000 to NOK 110 358 000 456 Emergency and emergency communication services Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be used under cap. 451 entry 1 is increased by: 15 600 000 from NOK 128 755000 to NOK 144 355000 21 Special operational expenditure — infrastructure Emergency networks, reduced by: 18 500000 from NOK 366,017,000 to NOK 347,517,000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, increased by: 103,000,000 from NOK 35 176 000 to NOK 138 176 000 460 Special Unit for Police Affairs Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 1 400000 from NOK 47 451000 to NOK 48 851000 466 Special expenditure on criminal matters, etc. Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 97 736 000 from NOK 1 183 838 000 to NOK 1086 102000 467 Norwegian Lovtidend Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 639 000 from NOK 4 340000 to NOK 4 979000 469 Vertegration scheme Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 10,200,000 from NOK 252,675000 to NOK 262,875000 471 State liability and compensation scheme of the Storting 73 The capital allowance scheme shall be reduced by: 3,000,000 from NOK 25 713,000 to NOK 22 713 000 473 Civil law administration of the State 70 Compensation for victims of violence, allocation of an estimate, shall be increased by: 50,000,000 from NOK 300000 to NOK 350000000 475 Out-of-court settlement services Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 23 415 000 from NOK 104,851,000 to NOK 128,266,000 480 Svalbard budget 50 Grants shall be increased by: 6000000 from NOK 360 484 000 to NOK 366 484 000 490 Directorate for Foreign Affairs Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 1250000 from NOK 1034 196,000 to NOK 1021 696 000 21 Special operating expenditure, asylum receipts, is increased by: 184,713,000 from NOK 520 513,000 to NOK 705 226 000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Special operating costs, interpretation and translation, are reduced by: 1,296 000 from NOK 14 896 000 to NOK 13 600 000 60 Grants to host municipalities for asylum recipients shall be increased by: 45 372 000 from NOK 138 354 000 to NOK 183 726 000 70 Social benefits for residents in reception of asylum are increased by: 27 681,000 from NOK 75 378 000 to NOK 103 059 000 72 International migration work, and assisted return and reintegration in the home country, estimates are reduced by: 9 115,000 from NOK 72 069 000 to NOK 62 954000 73 Protection for refugees outside Norway, etc., support measures, may be used under Chapter. 291, entry 60, is increased by 9 149 000 from NOK 11 917,000 to NOK 21 066 000 75 Travel costs for refugees to and from abroad may be carried over, increased by: 9,141,000 from NOK 11 337,000 to NOK 20 478 000 491 Foreigner’s Office Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be used under item 21, reduced by: 7000000 from NOK 293 582 000 to NOK 286 582 000 21 Special operating costs, including treatment, may be used under item 1 increased by: 4,000,000 from NOK 6 370000 to NOK 10 370000 500 Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 930 000 from NOK 408 01000 to NOK 407 071000 23 Rent of common land, etc. , is reduced by: 2,800,000 from NOK 24 664 000 to NOK 21 864 000 510 Ministry Security and Service Organisation 23 22 July to be reduced by: 700000 from NOK 12 260000 to NOK 11 560000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, increased by: 2,800,000 from NOK 49 869 000 to NOK 52 669 000 530 Construction projects outside the housing arrangement 33 The continuation of construction projects may be transferred, increased by: 330,000 from NOK 1780 400000 to NOK 2 110 400000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, increased by: 62000000 from NOK 563000000 to NOK 625000 533 Non-residential property Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 1,450,000 from NOK 20,686 000 to NOK 22 136 000 540 Directorate for Management and ICT Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 930 000 from NOK 291,044 000 to NOK 291,974 000 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, increased by: 500000 from NOK 24 436 000 to NOK 24 936 000 541 IT policy This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The development, implementation and coordination of IT policies, can be transferred, can be used under heading 70, reduced by: 500000 from NOK 21 029 000 to NOK 20 529 000 543 National communication authority Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 9 900 000 from NOK 224 600 000 to NOK 214 700000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, increased by: 6000000 from NOK 16 400000 to NOK 22 400000 71 Broadband extension, may be transmitted, increased by: 50,000,000 from NOK 199 750000 to NOK 249 750000 560 Sámi 50 Sami languages, culture and social life are increased by: 13,000,000 from NOK 497 069 000 to NOK 510 069 000 571 Framework grants to municipalities 60 Intrinsic subsidies are increased by: 403,190 000 from NOK 131 519 299 000 to NOK 131 922 489 000 572 Framework grant to county municipalities 60 Intrinsic subsidies are increased by: 56,000,000 from NOK 33 563 319 000 to NOK 33 619 319 000 581 Dwelling and housing measures 70 Housing aid, estimates, is reduced by: 22 800000 from NOK 3 102 591 000 to NOK 3079 791000 75 Establishment and adaptation of dwellings are increased by: 117 500000 from NOK 481,574 000 to NOK 599,074 000 76 Rentals, may be transferred, reduced by: 252 162,000 from NOK 710 464 000 to NOK 458 302 000 595 Staten Kartsverk Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be used under items 21 and 45, reduced by: 100000 000 from NOK 899 021 000 to NOK 799 021 000 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, may be used under items 1 and 45, increased by: 140 500000 from NOK 217 920000 to NOK 358 420000 601 Exploration, research and related activities 70 Grants shall be reduced by: 5000000 from NOK 36 730000 to NOK 31 730000 605 The seat of employment and welfare Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 35 140 000 from NOK 11 681 785000 to NOK 11 716 925000 611 Pensions of state funds Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs, estimates, are reduced by: 1500000 from NOK 17 500000 to NOK 16000000 612 Grants to State pension fund Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs, estimates, are increased by: 717,000,000 from NOK 4253000000 to NOK 4970000000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Final settlement, allocation of estimates, is increased by: 200000000 from NOK -1 849000000 to NOK -1 649000000 70 For other members of the State pension fund, the estimate is increased by: 15,000,000 from NOK 161000000 to NOK 176000000 613 Employer’s fee for social security 70 For other members of the State pension fund, the estimate is reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 24000000 to NOK 23000000 614 Housing loan scheme of the State pension fund Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 5000000 from NOK 27000000 to NOK 32000000 90 Loans, estimates, are increased by: 4,200,000,000 from NOK 5 900000000 to NOK 10 10000000 634 Labour market measures 76 Measures for job seekers may be transferred, reduced by: 15,000,000 from NOK 7 110 545000 to NOK 7095 545000 77 Permanently organised work may be transferred, increased by: 15,000,000 from NOK 1503 905000 to NOK 1518 905000 660 War Pension 70 Grants, military, allocation of estimates, are reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 59000000 to NOK 58000000 71 Grants, civil, estimates, are increased by: 1000000 from NOK 159000000 to NOK 160000000 664 Seafarer pension scheme 70 Grants shall be increased by: 2000000 from NOK 37000000 to NOK 39000000 666 Retirement contract [[AFP]] Grants, estimate appropriations, are reduced by: 10000000 from NOK 2490000000 to NOK 2480000000 667 Supplementary social benefits for persons over 67 years of age 70 Grants, estimate appropriations, are reduced by: 15,000,000 from NOK 3450000000 to NOK 330000000 700 Ministry of Health and Welfare Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 4,900,000 from NOK 240 961000 to NOK 236 061000 701 E-health, health records, etc. 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, increased by: 12 400000 from NOK 468 181,000 to NOK 480 581 000 704 The Health Archive 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, increased by: 3,000,000 from NOK 46000000 to NOK 49000000 709 Patient and User Ombudsmen Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 2000000 from NOK 74 021 000 to NOK 72 021 000 710 Vaccines, etc. 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, increased by: 12 200000 from NOK 336 375000 to NOK 348 575000 714 Public health 60 Municipal actions, may be transferred, can be used under item 21, reduced by: 2,600,000 from NOK 93,013,000 to NOK 90,413,000 732 Regional health establishments 70 Specific grants, may be carried over, may be used under headings 72, 73, 74 and 75, reduced by: 30,000,000 from NOK 874 059 000 to NOK 844 059 000 72 Basic appropriations Health south-east RHF, may be carried over, increased by: 647,000,000 from NOK 53 571 938 000 to NOK 54 218 938 000 73 Basic appropriations Health West RHF, may be carried over, increased by: 227,000,000 from NOK 18 781 421,000 to NOK 19 008 421000 74 Basic appropriations Health Middle Norway RHF, may be carried over, increased by: 172,000,000 from NOK 14 270 445000 to NOK 14 442 445000 75 Basic appropriations Health Nord RHF, may be carried over, increased by: 154,000,000 from NOK 12 726 632,000 to NOK 12 880 632,000 76 Intervention-driven financing, estimates, is increased by: 2500000 from NOK 37 843 728,000 to NOK 37 846 228 000 77 Laboratory and radiological studies, estimates, are reduced by: 111 500000 from NOK 3 119 112000 to NOK 3 007 612000 86 Operating credits shall be reduced by: 1,250,000,000 from NOK 3359000000 to NOK 2 159000000 740 Directorate for Health Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 500000 from NOK 1,212,918,000 to NOK 1,218,418 000 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, increased by: 5000000 from NOK 30 421000 to NOK 35 421000 744 Directorate for eHealth Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 23,000,000 from NOK 213 594 000 to NOK 236 594 000 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, increased by: 20,000,000 from NOK 150 992,000 to NOK 170 992,000 745 Public health institute Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 600 000 from NOK 1.044 831000 to NOK 1.045 431000 746 National Agency for Medicinal Products Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 5,083,000 from NOK 288 252,000 to NOK 293 335000 747 Directorate for Radiation Protection and Nuclear Safety Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 520000 from NOK 94 236 000 to NOK 99 486 000 21 Special operating costs may be transferred, reduced by: 3,200,000 from NOK 18 432 000 to NOK 15 232 000 748 National Health Supervisors Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 500000 from NOK 159 164 000 to NOK 153 664 000 761 Nursing services 61 Host municipalities increased by: 24000000 from NOK 934 778 000 to NOK 958 778 000 62 Daily activity offers, can be transferred, reduced by: 15,000,000 from NOK 347 998 000 to NOK 332 998 000 63 Investment grants – rehabilitation, can be transferred, can be used under heading 69, increased by: 39,825,000 from NOK 4 213 357 000 to NOK 4 253 182 000 65 Trials of state funding of care services, estimates, are reduced by: 136 790,000 from NOK 1 482 840000 to NOK 1 346 050000 69 Investment grants – net growth, may be transferred, increased by: 39 200000 from NOK 65 400000 to NOK 104 600 000 73 Special care needs are increased by: 30,000,000 from NOK 24 375 000 to NOK 54 375 000 762 Primary Health Service 21 Special operating costs may be used under heading 70, reduced by: 640000 from NOK 121 688 000 to NOK 115 288 000 61 Prison health services are increased by: 283,000 from NOK 178 866 000 to NOK 179 149 000 765 Psychiatric and drug services 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, may be used under item 72, increased by: 10 600 000 from NOK 108 523 000 to NOK 119 123 000 75 Violence and traumatic stress can be transmitted, reduced by: 3,600,000 from NOK 220 039 000 to NOK 216 439 000 844 Cash support 70 Grants, estimate appropriations, are reduced by: 190 890,000 from NOK 1800 890 000 to NOK 1610000000 845 Child-rescue 70 Grants, estimate appropriations, are reduced by: 82,000,000 from NOK 15 872000000 to NOK 15 790000000 846 Family and growth measures 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, may be used under item 61 and item 71, increased by: 5,400,000 from NOK 12 650000 to NOK 18 050000 50 The Norwegian Research Council may be used under heading 21 by: 500000 from NOK 3218 000 to NOK 2718 000 61 National grant scheme against child poverty, can be used under item 71, increased by: 10,500,000 from NOK 311 985000 to NOK 322 485000 854 Measures in the field of child protection 21 Special operating costs may be used under item 71, increased by: 14 900 000 from NOK 72 371000 to NOK 87 271000 50 Research and development are reduced by: 1500000 from NOK 17 631000 to NOK 16 131 000 71 Development and information, etc. , may be used under heading 21, increased by: 4 100000 from NOK 36 058 000 to NOK 40 158 000 855 State administration of child protection Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be used under item 22 and item 60, increased by: 260,000,000 from NOK 3841 242 000 to NOK 4 101 242 000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Purchases of private child protection services may be used under item 1, increased by: 54,000,000 from NOK 2623 089 000 to NOK 2677 089 000 60 Reimbursement of municipal expenditure on child protection measures under item 1 may be reduced by: 64 000 000 from NOK 426 801000 to NOK 362 801000 856 Childcare centre for lone minor asylum seekers Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 15,000,000 from NOK 156 429 000 to NOK 141 429 000 865 Consumer policy measures 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, may be used under item 50, reduced by: 180 000 from NOK 2 244 000 to NOK 2 064 000 70 Grants, may be used under item 21, increased by: 280 000 from NOK 1453 000 to NOK 1733 000 882 Cemeteries and cemeteries 61 Grants for peaceful and protective church buildings may be transferred, granted by: [[New]] 20,000,000 900 Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries 21 Special operating costs may be transferred, reduced by: 6000000 from NOK 61 927,000 to NOK 55 927,000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Safe management of Norwegian nuclear waste and installations, can be transferred, can be used under cover. 929, entry 51, is increased by 27 900 000 from NOK 70000000 to NOK 97 900 000 75 Grants to specific projects may be transferred, reduced by: 1500000 from NOK 8,045000 to NOK 6,545000 904 The Brønn Island Registers Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 20,000,000 from NOK 328 430000 to NOK 348 430000 909 Measures for employment of seafarers 73 Allowances for employment of seafarers, estimates, are increased by: 36,700,000 from NOK 1785000000 to NOK 1821 700000 911 Supervision of competition Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 650000 from NOK 110 450000 to NOK 116 950000 912 General Secretariat for Complaints Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 1 194,000 from NOK 19 550000 to NOK 20 744000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The subject of competition shall be increased by: 5,800,000 from NOK 247 000 to NOK 8 257 000 917 Directorate for Fisheries Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 5,750,000 from NOK 404 350000 to NOK 410 100000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Fisheries research and monitoring may be transferred, increased by: 19 765 000 from NOK 70 966 000 to NOK 90 731000 919 Miscellaneous fishing purposes 60 Grants to municipalities and counties are increased by: 25 146 000 from NOK 519000000 to NOK 544 146 000 76 Grants for fisheries research may be transferred, reduced by: 7000000 from NOK 15000000 to NOK 8000000 922 Space activities 70 Quota of European Space Agency [[ESA]] 4,300,000 from NOK 215 375000 to NOK 219 675000 71 International space activities are increased by: 6,700,000 from NOK 465 250000 to NOK 471 950000 73 EU space programmes are reduced by: 124 630,000 from NOK 487 300000 to NOK 362,670000 923 Marine Research Institute Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 4,000,000 from NOK 644 800000 to NOK 640 800000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Fisheries research and monitoring may be transferred, increased by: 20,000,000 from NOK 150 530000 to NOK 170 530000 924 International cooperation and development programmes 70 Grants shall be reduced by: 9 930 000 from NOK 16000000 to NOK 6070000 926 Marine Research Institute, research vessel Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 4,000,000 from NOK 184 450000 to NOK 188 450000 929 Institute of Energy Engineering This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Securing of nuclear installations may be transmitted, increased by: 20,000,000 from NOK 40000000 to NOK 60000000 51 Grants for nuclear research, may be transferred, may be used under Chapter. 900, entry 22, increased by 114,000,000 from NOK 147000000 to NOK 261000000 935 Patent-controlled Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 4500000 from NOK 258 400000 to NOK 262 900 000 950 Management of state ownership 51 Loss provision, equity contributions to Great Norwegian Spitsbergen Kulkkompani AS, are granted by: [[New]] 43,000,000 52 Risk capital, Nysnø Climate investment AS, is increased by: 35,000,000 from NOK 140000000 to NOK 175000000 71 Grants for the depreciation of equity Electronic Chart Centre AS, granted by [[New]] 20,000,000 90 Capital deposits, Nysnø Climate investment AS, are increased by: 65 000 000 from NOK 260000000 to NOK 325000000 1100 Ministry of Agriculture and Food 45 Major equipment acquisitions and maintenance – ordinary administrative bodies, may be transferred, can be used under heading 50, reduced by: 2,600,000 from NOK 2 720 000 to NOK 120000 49 Purchases of real estate, by: [[New]] 2,600,000 1112 Knowledge development and preparedness, etc. in the food field 50 Knowledge development, knowledge dissemination and preparedness, the Veterinary Institute, shall be increased by: 30,000,000 from NOK 97 9776000 to NOK 127 976000 1142 Directorate for Agriculture 77 Allowances for compensation in the event of the closure of the husbandry of fur animals may be transferred, granted by: [[New]] 20,000,000 1148 Natural damage - claims 71 Natural damage – claims, allocation of estimates, increased by: 22 400000 from NOK 152 600 000 to NOK 175 000 1150 For the implementation of the agricultural agreement, etc. 71 Subsidies for claims, etc. , estimates are increased by: 525000 from NOK 43000000 to NOK 568000000 1300 Ministry of Transport 71 Aid for road safety purposes, etc. , increased by: 2500000 from NOK 69000000 to NOK 71 500000 1320 State Road Service Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 290 500000 from NOK 4 334 900 000 to NOK 4 625 400000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Operation and maintenance of highways, may be carried over, may be used under item 29 and item 30, reduced by: 356 500000 from NOK 6 631 800000 to NOK 6275 300000 28 Traffic and vehicle supervision may be transmitted, reduced by: 110,000,000 from NOK 2 179 500000 to NOK 2 069 500000 29 OPS projects, may be transferred, may be used under item 30, reduced by: 430,000 from NOK 1631 400000 to NOK 1 201 400000 30 National road investments may be carried over, may be used under item 22, item 29 and item 31, increased by: 570,000 from NOK 1255 200000 to NOK 13 125 200000 31 Stitch protection, may be transmitted, can be used under item 30, reduced by: 180 000 000 from NOK 1043 400000 to NOK 863 400000 73 Subsidies for reduced toll tariffs outside urban areas are increased by: 200000000 from NOK 531 400000 to NOK 731 400000 1321 New Roads AS 70 New Roads AS grants are reduced by: 40,000,000 from NOK 5 431 900 000 to NOK 5 391 900 000 1330 Specific transport measures 63 Specific grants for large collective projects may be transferred, increased by: 190,000,000 from NOK 1532000000 to NOK 1722000000 64 Rewards for urban environment agreements and urban growth agreements may be transferred, increased by: 150000000 from NOK 771000000 to NOK 921000000 1352 Railway Directorate Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 109 700 000 from NOK 468 500000 to NOK 358 800000 70 Purchases of passenger transport services by train may be transferred, reduced by: 5,200,000 from NOK 4 195 100000 to NOK 4 189 900 000 71 Purchases of infrastructure services — operation and maintenance, may be carried over, may be used under item 72, item 73 and item 74, increased by: 263 500 000 from NOK 8 423 500000 to NOK 8 687 000 72 Purchases of infrastructure services — investment planning, transferability, use of item 71 and item 73 are reduced by: 471,000,000 from NOK 2 153000000 to NOK 1 682000000 73 Purchases of infrastructure services – investments, transferable, can be used under items 71, 72 and 74, increased by: 101,000,000 from NOK 9 988 700000 to NOK 10 089 700000 75 Contributions to the transfer of goods from road to rail, granted by [[New]] 60,000,000 1360 Coastal works 30 New installations and major maintenance may be transferred, increased by: 38,000,000 from NOK 378 500000 to NOK 416 500000 34 Compensation for increased employer's tax may be transferred, reduced by: 25 200000 from NOK 25 200000 to NOK 0 72 Contributions for the transfer of goods from road to sea may be transferred, reduced by: 77 400000 from NOK 77 400000 to NOK 0 1400 Ministry of Climate and Environment 71 International organisations are increased by: 1,800,000 from NOK 88 053 000 to NOK 89 853 000 1410 Knowledge of the climate and the environment 21 Environmental monitoring is reduced by: 2500000 from NOK 277 297 000 to NOK 274 797 000 1412 Meteorology purposes 50 The Meteorological Institute shall be increased by: 12 900 000 from NOK 313 882,000 to NOK 326 782,000 70 International cooperation projects are reduced by: 29 898 000 from NOK 172 566 000 to NOK 142 668 000 1420 Directorate for the Environment Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 5 112 000 from NOK 694 287 000 to NOK 699 399 000 61 Contributions to climate action and adaptation may be transferred, reduced by: 108 330,000 from NOK 208 230000 to NOK 99 900 000 63 Return arrangements for end-of-life recreational craft are reduced by: 10000000 from NOK 20000000 to NOK 10000000 75 Payments for wreckage and vehicle and recreational boat allowances, estimate appropriations, are reduced by: 85 992,000 from NOK 640 992,000 to NOK 555000000 76 Reimbursement schemes, estimates, are increased by: 26 536 000 from NOK 137 464 000 to NOK 164 000 85 Natural information centres may be transferred, increased by: 2500000 from NOK 69,031000 to NOK 71,531000 1428 Reduced greenhouse gas emissions, energy conversion, energy and climate technologies 50 Transfer to the Climate and Energy Fund shall be increased by: 50,000,000 from NOK 3164 450000 to NOK 3 214 450000 1429 Riksantikvaren Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 2 067 000 from NOK 148 540000 to NOK 146 473 000 21 Special operating costs are increased by: 3,000,000 from NOK 37 719 000 to NOK 40 719 000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Conservation tasks may be transferred, reduced by: 3,000,000 from NOK 24 708 000 to NOK 21 708 000 1471 Norwegian Polar Institute Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 2,248,000 from NOK 242 376 000 to NOK 240 128 000 21 Special operating costs may be transferred, reduced by: 1 786 000 from NOK 77 243 000 to NOK 75 457 000 1473 Kings Bay AS 70 Grants shall be increased by: 1 989,000 from NOK 30 270000 to NOK 32 259000 1600 Ministry of Finance Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 5000000 from NOK 390 800000 to NOK 385 800000 21 Special operating costs may be transferred, reduced by: 6,330,000 from NOK 90 900 000 to NOK 84 570000 1605 Directorate for Financial Management Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 50,000,000 from NOK 507 200000 to NOK 557 200000 1610 Customs duties 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, increased by: 12 200000 from NOK 90 200000 to NOK 102 400000 1618 Tax receipts Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 6,283,000 from NOK 6 062 100000 to NOK 6 055 817 000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Major IT projects may be transferred, reduced by: 58,000,000 from NOK 472 800000 to NOK 414 800000 23 Special operating costs, a scheme, are increased by: 3,800,000 from NOK 88 100000 to NOK 91 900 000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, reduced by: 7000000 from NOK 115000000 to NOK 108000000 70 Grants shall be increased by: 1500000 from NOK 350000 to NOK 5000000 1620 Statistical Central Bureau Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 2,400,000 from NOK 593 300000 to NOK 595 700000 1632 Compensation for VAT 61 Grants to municipalities and county councils, estimates, are increased by: 80000000 from NOK 24 600000000 to NOK 25 400000000 1633 Net scheme, State-paid VAT Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs, estimates, are increased by: 200000000 from NOK 6 600000000 to NOK 6 800000000 1651 Central government debt, repayments and redemptions 98 Deductions on domestic debt, estimated appropriations, are reduced by: 12 414,000,000 from NOK 76 515 000 to NOK 64 101 000 000 1700 Ministry of Defence Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 39 822,000 from NOK 819 030 000 to NOK 858 852 000 21 Special operating costs, may be transferred, estimated appropriations, are reduced by: 48,779,000 from NOK 128 779 000 to NOK 80 000 000 71 Transfers to others may be transferred, reduced by: 4,000,000 from NOK 66 346 000 to NOK 62 346 000 74 Transferability to a limited liability company may be transferred, granted by: [[New]] 172,000,000 1710 Defence and new buildings and new installations 47 New buildings and new installations, can be transferred, can be used under cap. 1761, entry 47 is reduced by 100000 000 from NOK 2546 032 000 to NOK 2446 032 000 1720 Common Defence Capabilities Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 338 879 000 from NOK 9 217 413,000 to NOK 9 556 292 000 1731 Army Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 284 173,000 from NOK 5 566 035 000 to NOK 5 850 208 000 1732 Sea defence services Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 629 346,000 from NOK 4 389 630000 to NOK 5 018 976000 1733 Air Force Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 222 975,000 from NOK 5 292 845000 to NOK 5 515 820000 1734 Home Security Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 14 167 000 from NOK 1394 798 000 to NOK 1 408 965 000 1735 Intelligence 21 Special operating costs are increased by: 17 807,000 from NOK 2 005 584 000 to NOK 2 023 391 000 1760 Defence and major acquisitions and maintenance Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be used under cap. 1760, entry 45, reduced by 61 434 000 from NOK 1629,765000 to NOK 1568,331,000 44 Joint funded investments, nationally financed shares, may be transferred, reduced by: 26 200000 from NOK 83 185000 to NOK 56 985000 45 Major acquisitions and maintenance of equipment may be carried over, may be used under cover. 1761, entry 45 is increased by 33 431,000 from NOK 8 952 590000 to NOK 8 986 021000 48 Jointly financed investments, jointly financed, may be transferred, reduced by: 152 889 000 from NOK 205000000 to NOK 52 111 000 1761 New base-solution fighter aircraft 45 Major acquisitions and maintenance of equipment may be carried over, may be used under cover. 1760, entry 45, reduced by 100000 000 from NOK 709,512,000 to NOK 6909,512,000 47 New buildings and new installations, can be transferred, can be used under cap. 1710, entry 47 is increased by: 100000 000 from NOK 1,176,449 000 to NOK 1,276,449 000 1790 Coast Guard Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 81 170 000 from NOK 1157 875000 to NOK 1076 705000 1791 Rescue helicopter service Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 44 639 000 from NOK 866 848 000 to NOK 911 487 000 1792 Norwegian forces abroad Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 2 599 000 from NOK 990 316 000 to NOK 992 915000 1840 CO 2 management 72 Full scale CO 2 handling, can be transferred, can be used under heading 70, increased by: 150000000 from NOK 149000000 to NOK 299000000 2410 State Loan Fund for Education Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be used under item 45, increased by: 20,000,000 from NOK 392 941000 to NOK 412 941000 50 Appropriations for education grants, estimates, are increased by: 68 167 000 from NOK 7 170 151,000 to NOK 7 238 318 000 70 Training grants, estimates, are increased by: 435 443,000 from NOK 2983 362,000 to NOK 3418 805000 71 Other scholarships, estimate appropriations, are reduced by: 29 740,000 from NOK 742 493 000 to NOK 712 753 000 72 Interest subsidies, estimates, are increased by: 25 510000 from NOK 12,255,776 000 to NOK 1,281,86 000 73 Depreciation, estimate allocation, is increased by: 135 088 000 from NOK 602 006000 to NOK 737 094000 74 Losses on loans increased by: 1,300,000 from NOK 386 200000 to NOK 387 500000 90 Increases in loans and interest payable, estimates are reduced by: 6479 000 from NOK 28 594 604 000 to NOK 28 588 125 000 2412 The Bank of Homes Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 2000000 from NOK 354 910000 to NOK 356 910000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, increased by: 2000000 from NOK 38 844 000 to NOK 40 844 000 90 New loans, estimates, are increased by: 1,410,000 from NOK 14 33000000 to NOK 15 740000000 2421 Innovation Norway 80 Activities of Svalbard, financed by: [[New]] 3,200,000 2440 Direct economic involvement of the country in the petroleum industry 30 Investments are increased by: 2,000,000 from NOK 27000000 to NOK 29000000 2445 State-owned buildings 30 Construction of buildings may be transferred; 22,000,000 from NOK 648 401,000 to NOK 626 401000 33 The continuation of ordinary construction projects may be transferred, increased by: 200000000 from NOK 2237 450000 to NOK 2437 450000 34 The continuation of user-funded construction projects may be transferred, increased by: 100000 000 from NOK 713000000 to NOK 813000000 2470 General government pension fund 24 Operating result: 1 Revenue, forecasting -652,695,000 2 Operating expenditure, estimate appropriations 448 822,000 3 Depreciation 130 606 000 4 Interest on the capital of the country 207,000 5 For investment purposes 55 645000 Sum: -17 415 000 2530 Parental carcass 70 Birth culls, estimated appropriations, are reduced by: 694,000,000 from NOK 19 174000000 to NOK 18 480000000 71 Birth and adoption lump sum estimates are reduced by: 67,000,000 from NOK 927000000 to NOK 860000 000 72 Parental leave allowance, estimated appropriation, is reduced by: 5000000 from NOK 485000000 to NOK 480000000 73 Adoption obituaries, estimates, are reduced by: 7000000 from NOK 63000000 to NOK 56000000 2541 Day money 70 Appropriations for the day shall be reduced by: 1,053,000,000 from NOK 10 253000000 to NOK 9 20000000 2542 State guarantee on claims for wages and salaries in the event of bankruptcy, etc. 70 State guarantee on claims for wages and salaries in the event of bankruptcy, etc. , estimates are reduced by: 45,000,000 from NOK 890000 to NOK 8450000000 2620 Social benefits to a lonely mother or father 70 Transitional assistance, estimated allocation, is reduced by: 230 000 000 from NOK 1940000000 to NOK 1710000000 72 Social assistance for child care of a lone mother or father in work, estimates are reduced by: 23,000,000 from NOK 170000000 to NOK 147000000 73 Supplementary and school-related social benefits, estimates are reduced by: 19 700 000 from NOK 91 700000 to NOK 72 000 000 76 Contribution advances shall be increased by: 15 800000 from NOK 704 200000 to NOK 720 000 000 2650 Sykepenger 70 Sickness allowance for employees, etc. , estimates are increased by: 110,000,000 from NOK 37 190 000 to NOK 37 300000 71 Sickness benefits for self-employed persons, estimated appropriations, are reduced by: 100000 000 from NOK 148000000 to NOK 1380000000 72 Nursing, training, n.e.c. , estimates are reduced by: 53 500000 from NOK 1000000 to NOK 946 500000 75 Health care holiday pay, estimated, is increased by: 20,000,000 from NOK 2 080000000 to NOK 2 10000000 2651 Clearance of duties 70 Clearance of work, allocation of estimates, is reduced by: 1 990,000,000 from NOK 31 670000000 to NOK 29 680000000 71 Supplementary aid, estimated allocation, is reduced by: 47 600 000 from NOK 229 600 000 to NOK 182000000 72 Medical statements shall be reduced by: 35,000,000 from NOK 425000 to NOK 390000 2655 Disability 70 Misappropriation, allocation of estimates, increased by: 1 540,000 from NOK 92 950000 to NOK 94 490000 75 Men's compensation in the event of occupational injury, estimated appropriations, shall be reduced by: 16,000,000 from NOK 86000000 to NOK 70000000 76 Occupational injury prevention gml. legislation, the allocation of estimates, shall be reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 41000000 to NOK 40000000 2661 Basic and auxiliary aid, aids, etc. 70 Basic aid, estimates, is reduced by: 21 600 000 from NOK 1761 600 000 to NOK 1740 000 71 Auxiliary services, estimate appropriations, increased by 25 300000 from NOK 1514 700000 to NOK 1540000000 73 Utilities, etc. in the course of work and training, shall be reduced by: 4,000,000 from NOK 130000000 to NOK 126000000 74 Supplements to cars are reduced by: 111 900 000 from NOK 846 900 000 to NOK 735000 75 Improvement of functionality, aids, is reduced by: 29 600 000 from NOK 3 3 369 600 000 to NOK 3 340 000 77 Orthopaedic aids, reduced by: 67 300000 from NOK 1637 300000 to NOK 1570000000 78 Hearing aids, reduced by: 27,670,000 from NOK 737 670000 to NOK 71000000 79 Activity aids for persons over 26 years of age are increased by: 15,000,000 from NOK 50 450000 to NOK 65 450000 2670 Age 70 Basic pension, estimated appropriation, is reduced by: 170,000,000 from NOK 75 740000000 to NOK 75 570000000 72 Pensions on income, estimates, are increased by: 10000000 from NOK 2730000000 to NOK 2740000000 73 Special supplements, pension supplements etc. , estimates are increased by: 22,000,000 from NOK 6 158000000 to NOK 6 180000000 2680 Survivors 71 Supplementary pension, estimated appropriation, is increased by: 5000000 from NOK 805000000 to NOK 810000000 72 Special supplement, estimate allocation, is reduced by: 2000000 from NOK 85000000 to NOK 83000000 2686 gravitational assistance 70 gravitational allowances, estimate appropriations, are increased by: 9000000 from NOK 1996000000 to NOK 205000000 2711 Specialist health services, etc. 70 Specialist assistance, increased by: 5000000 from NOK 2235000000 to NOK 2240000000 71 Psychological assistance, reduced by: 10000000 from NOK 323000000 to NOK 313000000 72 Dental treatment, reduced by: 118 320 000 from NOK 2,318,320 000 to NOK 2,200,000 76 Private laboratories and X-ray institutes shall be increased by: 26,000,000 from NOK 1024000000 to NOK 1050000000 2751 Medicinal products n.e.c. 70 Medicinal products, increased by 79 200000 from NOK 9 310 800000 to NOK 9 390 000 71 Medical statements shall be increased by: 1000000 from NOK 7000000 to NOK 8000000 72 Medical consumables are reduced by: 32 100000 from NOK 2042 100000 to NOK 2 010 000 2752 Reimbursement of self-payment 70 Self-proprietary cap 1, reduced by: 44 200000 from NOK 5 214 200000 to NOK 5 170 000 71 Self-proprietary cap 2, reduced by: 19,000,000 from NOK 1014000000 to NOK 995000000 2755 Health services in municipalities etc. 62 Remuneration scheme physiotherapists, may be used under heading 71, increased by: 16,000,000 from NOK 413000000 to NOK 429000000 70 General medical care is reduced by: 124 600 000 from NOK 5 274 600 000 to NOK 5150000000 71 Physiotherapy, may be used under heading 62, is increased by: 45,000,000 from NOK 1,180000000 to NOK 1,225000000 72 midwifery assistance, increased by: 2000000 from NOK 61000000 to NOK 63000000 73 Chiropractor therapy is increased by: 5000000 from NOK 174000000 to NOK 179000000 75 Logopedic and orthopaedic treatments are increased by: 4,000,000 from NOK 164000000 to NOK 168000000 2756 Other health services 70 Health services in other EEA countries are increased by: 3,000,000 from NOK 13000000 to NOK 16000000 71 Health services abroad etc. , is reduced by: 90 000 000 from NOK 490000 to NOK 400000 72 Health services to non-residents, etc. , is reduced by: 20,000,000 from NOK 240000000 to NOK 220000000 2790 Other health measures 70 Contributions, reduced by 4,900,000 from NOK 254,900000 to NOK 250000000 3225 Basic training measures 4 Reimbursement of ODA-approved expenditure, increased by: 7,231,000 from NOK 19 734 000 to NOK 26 965 000 3288 International cooperation actions 4 Reimbursement of ODA-approved expenditure, reduced by: 587,000 from NOK 5698 000 to NOK 511000 3292 Norwegian and community education for adult immigrants Add User-ID Succeeded Norwegian receipt training, ODA-approved expenditure, is increased by: 1,800,000 from NOK 24 185000 to NOK 25 985000 3400 Ministry of Justice and Defence 2 Reimbursement of ODA-approved expenditure, granted by [[New]] 1000000 3410 Courts of Justice 4 Protective matters relating to land change courts shall be reduced by: 3,043,000 from NOK 5 916 000 to NOK 2 873 000 3440 Police Directorate - the Police and Len’s Seat 2 Reimbursements, etc. , is reduced by: 19 400000 from NOK 280 624 000 to NOK 261 224 000 6 Fee — Foreign affairs, reduced by: 14 770,000 from NOK 282 259 000 to NOK 267 489 000 8 Reimbursements from the EU Border and Visa Fund are increased by: 4,700,000 from NOK 21 258 000 to NOK 25 958 000 3456 Emergency and emergency communication services Add User-ID Succeeded Subscription income is reduced by: 1 600 000 from NOK 347 305000 to NOK 345 705000 4 Reimbursements of major equipment acquisitions and maintenance are increased by: 95,000,000 from NOK 9 623 000 to NOK 104 623 000 3490 Directorate for Foreign Affairs Add User-ID Succeeded Assisted return from Norway for rejected asylum seekers, ODA-approved expenditure, is reduced by: 1,084 000 from NOK 1845000 to NOK 761000 3 Travel expenses for refugees to and from abroad, ODA-approved expenditure, are increased by: 10 371,000 from NOK 13 255 000 to NOK 23 626 000 4 Asylum recipients, ODA-approved expenditure, are increased by: 101 247 000 from NOK 279 091000 to NOK 380 338 000 5 Reimbursement income is reduced by: 1 899 000 from NOK 8 862 000 to NOK 6 963 000 6 Protection for refugees outside Norway, etc., ODA-approved expenditure, is increased by: 9 149 000 from NOK 11 917,000 to NOK 21 066 000 7 Interpretation and translation, ODA-approved expenditure, is reduced by: 1 678 000 from NOK 14 604000 to NOK 12 926000 8 International migration work and reintegration in the home country, ODA-approved expenditure, are reduced by: 15 792,000 from NOK 55 128 000 to NOK 39 336 000 3595 Staten Kartsverk 2 Sales and subscriptions, etc. , increased by: 9,200,000 from NOK 134 668 000 to NOK 143 868 000 3605 The seat of employment and welfare Add User-ID Succeeded Administrative allowances shall be increased by: 1,140 000 from NOK 9 260000 to NOK 10 400000 6 Fee income for the determination of contributions shall be reduced by: 2,300,000 from NOK 27 600 000 to NOK 25 300000 3614 Housing loan scheme of the State pension fund Add User-ID Succeeded Fee income, loans, is increased by: 5000000 from NOK 23000000 to NOK 28000000 90 Repayment of loans shall be increased by: 200000000 from NOK 10 900000000 to NOK 11 10000000 3635 Wages and salaries, etc. Add User-ID Succeeded Reimbursement of State activities, etc. , increased by: 1000000 from NOK 8000000 to NOK 9000000 3704 The Health Archive 2 Miscellaneous revenue, by [[New]] 3,000,000 3740 Directorate for Health 5 Health services to non-residents, etc. , increased by: 12,000,000 from NOK 63000000 to NOK 75000000 3747 Directorate for Radiation Protection and Nuclear Safety 2 Miscellaneous income is reduced by: 2,900,000 from NOK 19 831,000 to NOK 16 931000 4 Fee revenue shall be increased by: 230000 from NOK 9 151,000 to NOK 11 501000 3855 State administration of child protection 60 Local peculiarities are increased by: 50,000,000 from NOK 1437 256 000 to NOK 1487 256 000 3906 Directorate for Mineral Management with the Bergmeister for Svalbard 86 Infringement fee and periodic penalty payment, granted by [[New]] 1000000 3912 General Secretariat for Complaints 2 Reimbursements and other income are increased by: 194,000 from NOK 206 000 to NOK 400000 87 Infringement fee shall be increased by: 4,140 000 from NOK 100000 to NOK 4 240 000 3917 Directorate for Fisheries Add User-ID Succeeded Reimbursements and miscellaneous income are increased by: 5,747,000 from NOK 103 000 to NOK 5850 000 3935 Patent-controlled 4 Miscellaneous income, by [[New]] 4500000 3940 Internationalisation measures 70 Refunds from the Baltic Investment Programme shall be granted by: [[New]] 6,700,000 3950 Management of state ownership 91 Depreciation of equity Electronic Chart Centre AS, granted by [[New]] 20,000,000 4352 Railway Directorate Add User-ID Succeeded Payments to Norwegian Railway School and Norwegian Railway Museum are reduced by: 96 200000 from NOK 98 600 000 to NOK 2 400000 4481 Sale of climate allowances Add User-ID Succeeded Sales income is reduced by: 2 565,000,000 from NOK 7 181 722 000 to NOK 4 616 722 000 4605 Directorate for Financial Management Add User-ID Succeeded Economic services are increased by: 50,000,000 from NOK 51 600 000 to NOK 101 600 000 4610 Customs duties 4 Miscellaneous reimbursements are increased by: 570000 from NOK 1 100000 to NOK 6 800000 4618 Tax receipts 86 Fines, withdrawals, etc. , is reduced by: 50,000,000 from NOK 1430000000 to NOK 1380000000 88 Delay fee, the Accounting Register, is reduced by: 37 600 000 from NOK 262 600 000 to NOK 225 000 4620 Statistical Central Bureau 85 The periodic penalty payment shall be reduced by: 10000000 from NOK 25000000 to NOK 15000000 4700 Ministry of Defence Add User-ID Succeeded Revenue is increased by: 14 420,000 from NOK 25,745000 to NOK 40,165000 4720 Common Defence Capabilities Add User-ID Succeeded Revenue is increased by: 705 772 000 from NOK 517 737 000 to NOK 1,223 509 000 4731 Army Add User-ID Succeeded Revenue is increased by: 7 326,000 from NOK 91 984 000 to NOK 99 310000 4734 Home Security Add User-ID Succeeded Revenue is increased by: 13 515,000 from NOK 5 766 000 to NOK 19 281000 4760 Defence and major acquisitions and maintenance Add User-ID Succeeded Revenues are reduced by: 2908 000 from NOK 33 090 000 to NOK 30 182 000 45 Larger equipment acquisition and maintenance, revenue, granted by [[New]] 34 460,000 48 Jointly financed investments, income, are reduced by: 150 600 000 from NOK 205 036 000 to NOK 54 436 000 4791 Rescue helicopter service Add User-ID Succeeded Revenue is increased by: 45,000,000 from NOK 774 747 000 to NOK 819 747 000 4800 Ministry of Oil and Energy 2 Miscellaneous income, by [[New]] 1,300,000 5310 State Loan Fund for Education 4 Reimbursement of ODA-approved expenditure, increased by: 2,570 000 from NOK 18 530000 to NOK 21 100000 29 Appointment fee shall be reduced by: 6,700,000 from NOK 16 892,000 to NOK 10 192 000 89 Pure fees shall be increased by: 5,024,000 from NOK 105,016 000 to NOK 110,040000 90 Reduced loans and interest payable are increased by: 253,759,000 from NOK 10 776 474 000 to NOK 11 030 233 000 93 Conversion of training loans into scholarships shall be increased by: 48 097 000 from NOK 6 999 551 000 to NOK 7047 648 000 5325 Innovation Norway 50 Return from a nationwide innovation scheme is increased by: 690000 from NOK 15000000 to NOK 21 900 000 85 The repayment of depreciated loans from seed capital funds shall be granted by: [[New]] 600 000 91 Returned capital, seed funds, is increased by: 8,200,000 from NOK 10000000 to NOK 18 200000 5329 Export Credit Scheme 71 Refunds from Export Credit Norway AS are granted by: [[New]] 22,000,000 5341 Deductions on outstanding receivables 98 Deductions on own-account government bonds are reduced by: 4,000,000 from NOK 8000000 to NOK 4000000 5351 Transfer from Norway’s Bank 85 Transfer, increased by 2 798 300000 from NOK 12000000 to NOK 14 798 300000 5440 Direct economic involvement of the country in the petroleum industry 24 Operating result: 1 Revenue 159 200,000 2 Operating costs -27 400,000,000 3 Expenses of exploration and field development -2 100000 000 4 Depreciation -20 200 000 000 5 Interest on the capital of the country -2 900 000 000 Sum: 106 600000000 30 Depreciation reduced by: 1 900 000 000 from NOK 22 10000000 to NOK 20 20 20000000 5490 NVE Facility Add User-ID Succeeded Sale of equipment, etc. , increased by: 1 400000 from NOK 100000 to NOK 1500000 5491 Depreciation of the capital of the State in the course of its business operations 30 Depreciation is increased by: 350000 from NOK 1574 406 000 to NOK 1577 906 000 5521 Value added tax 70 VAT is increased by: 294 500000 from NOK 31000000 to NOK 310 294 500000 5526 Charge on alcohol 70 Charges on alcohol are reduced by: 500000 from NOK 14 200000000 to NOK 14 199 500000 5536 Fee on motor vehicles, etc. 71 One-off fee shall be increased by: 116,000,000 from NOK 14 641 000 to NOK 14 757 000 5541 Tax on electricity 70 Tax on electricity is reduced by: 10000000 from NOK 11 010000000 to NOK 11000000 5570 Sectoral charges under the Ministry of Local Government and Modernisation 70 Sectoral charges National communication authority is reduced by: 3,900,000 from NOK 243 400000 to NOK 239 500000 5574 Sectoral charges under the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries 74 Fisheries research fee shall be increased by: 24000000 from NOK 236 496 000 to NOK 260 496 000 5578 Sectoral Fees under the Ministry of Climate and Environment 72 Fish fees shall be increased by: 1000000 from NOK 19000000 to NOK 20000000 5603 Interest on the capital of the State in the course of its business operations 80 Interest on fixed capital of the country shall be reduced by: 100000 from NOK 93 507 000 to NOK 93 407 000 5607 Interest of the housing loan scheme in the State pension fund 80 Interest is increased by: 85,000,000 from NOK 963000000 to NOK 1048000000 5611 NSB AS shares 85 Dividends are increased by: 8,000,000 from NOK 225000000 to NOK 233000000 5617 Interest of the State Loan Fund for Education 80 Interest is reduced by: 5,747,000 from NOK 4,857,196 000 to NOK 4,851,449 000 5622 Shares in Avinor AS 85 Dividends are increased by: 72 400000 from NOK 512 500000 to NOK 584 900 000 5625 Interest and dividends from Innovation Norway 81 The interest margin, the innovation loan scheme, is increased by: 4500000 from NOK 20000000 to NOK 24 500000 85 Dividends, the Low Risk Loan Facility, are increased by: 27,700,000 from NOK 125000000 to NOK 152 700 000 88 Return of dividends from seed capital funds granted by: [[New]] 3,000,000 5631 Shares in AS Vinmonopolet 85 The State’s surplus share is increased by: 87 100000 from NOK 41 200000 to NOK 128 300000 86 Dividends are increased by: 3000 from NOK 2000 to NOK 5000 5652 Landskog SF - interest and dividends 85 Dividends are increased by: 55 250000 from NOK 24 750000 to NOK 80000000 5656 Shares under the administration of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries 85 Dividends are increased by: 1,362,100,000 from NOK 21 635 500000 to NOK 22 997 600 000 5680 Statnett SF 85 Dividends are increased by: 41,000,000 from NOK 443000000 to NOK 484000000 5685 Equinor ASA shares 85 Dividends are increased by: 2,850,000 from NOK 16 620000 to NOK 19 470000000 5692 Dividends of the capital of the State in the Nordic Investment Bank 85 Dividends are reduced by: 28 900 000 from NOK 112,700000 to NOK 83,800000 5700 Revenue of the public sector 71 Social security contributions are reduced by: 5000000 from NOK 150 681 000 to NOK 150 676 000 5701 Miscellaneous income 71 Reimbursement in the event of occupational injury shall be reduced by: 165 500000 from NOK 940000 to NOK 774 500000 86 Recovery of errors, increased by: 55,000,000 from NOK 1150000000 to NOK 1205000000 87 Miscellaneous income is reduced by: 7,750,000 from NOK 26 950000 to NOK 19 200000 88 Assistive Technology Centres, etc. , increased by: 5000000 from NOK 63000000 to NOK 68000000 5704 State guarantee for claims for wages and salaries in the event of bankruptcy 70 Dividends are reduced by: 30,000,000 from NOK 230000000 to NOK 200000000 5705 Reimbursement of daily allowances 70 Reimbursement of daily allowances, State guarantee in the event of bankruptcy, shall be reduced by: 13,000,000 from NOK 26000000 to NOK 13000000 71 Reimbursement of daily allowances for frontier workers, etc. resided in Norway, reduced by 500000 from NOK 800000 to NOK 300000 ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e19806	There is a vote on proposal No. 28, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2019 is amended as follows: Cape. Post Subject matter Krona 21 Government Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 8,000,000 from NOK 190 200000 to NOK 198 200000 41 Size Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 2,600,000 from NOK 956 500000 to NOK 953 900000 61 Supreme Court Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 1 600 000 from NOK 112 195 000 to NOK 113 795000 104 Official travels abroad of the royal family Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 3,000,000 from NOK 9 991000 to NOK 12 991000 116 International organisations 70 Compulsory contributions shall be reduced by: 40,000,000 from NOK 1605 201000 to NOK 1565 201000 117 The EEA Financial Mechanisms 77 The EEA Financial Mechanism 2014-2021 may be transferred, reduced by: 250,000,000 from NOK 1559000000 to NOK 1309000000 78 The Norwegian Financial Mechanism 2014-2021 may be transferred, reduced by: 380,000,000 from NOK 1,218000000 to NOK 838/000000 118 Foreign policy bets 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, may be used under items 70, 71, 72 and 73, increased by: 2000000 from NOK 85 532 000 to NOK 87 532 000 74 Research, dialogue and human rights, etc. , is reduced by: 2000000 from NOK 45 583 000 to NOK 43 583 000 140 Ministry of Foreign Affairs Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 10 294,000 from NOK 1573 979 000 to NOK 1563 685 000 144 Norwegian Exchange Cooperation Centre [[Norec]] Exchange arrangements may be transferred, reduced by: 57,000,000 from NOK 142000000 to NOK 85000000 151 Peace, security and global cooperation 71 Global security issues and disarmament may be transmitted, reduced by: 532,000 from NOK 282 700000 to NOK 282 168 000 73 United Nations and global challenges, can be transmitted, reduced by: 8,800,000 from NOK 292 300000 to NOK 283 500000 152 Human rights 70 Human rights, can be transferred, increased by: 1000000 from NOK 535 157 000 to NOK 536 157 000 159 Regional appropriations 71 Europe and Central Asia can be transferred, reduced by: 4,031,000 from NOK 675 674 000 to NOK 671 643 000 72 Afghanistan, may be transferred, reduced by: 24000000 from NOK 574 500000 to NOK 550 500000 75 Africa, may be transferred, reduced by: 20,000,000 from NOK 1015 584 000 to NOK 995 584 000 77 Latin America, may be transferred, reduced by: 350000 from NOK 130 350000 to NOK 126 850000 161 Education, research and professional cooperation 70 Education, may be transferred, reduced by: 40 960,000 from NOK 2764 456 000 to NOK 2723 496 000 72 The knowledge bank and technical cooperation may be transferred, increased by: 2000000 from NOK 861 714 000 to NOK 863 714 000 162 Enterprise development, agriculture and renewable energy 70 Enterprise development and trade may be carried over, reduced by: 75,000,000 from NOK 621 700000 to NOK 546 700000 71 Food security and agriculture can be transferred, reduced by: 11,000,000 from NOK 1091 966 000 to NOK 1080 966 000 75 NORFUND - loss disposal, increased by: 75,000,000 from NOK 468 750000 to NOK 543 750000 163 Climate, Environment and the Sea 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, increased by: 22 750 000 from NOK 37 900 000 to NOK 60 650000 164 Equivalence 70 Equality may be transferred, increased by: 44,000,000 from NOK 372 219 000 to NOK 416 219 000 171 UN Development Work 72 Other grants [[FN]] 500000 from NOK 1996 700000 to NOK 196 200000 179 Refugee measures in Norway 21 Special operating costs are increased by: 112 267,000 from NOK 550,062 000 to NOK 662,329000 200 Ministry of Knowledge Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 889 000 from NOK 382 440000 to NOK 383 329000 201 Analysis and knowledge base 21 Special operating costs are increased by: 1 185000 from NOK 40 671000 to NOK 41 856 000 220 Directorate of Education 70 Supplements to educational material, etc. , may be transferred, may be used under item 21, increased by: 20,000,000 from NOK 68 705000 to NOK 88 705000 225 Basic training measures 64 Contributions to the training of children and young people seeking residence in Norway are increased by: 17 201,000 from NOK 52 991000 to NOK 70 192 000 68 Subsidies for training in criminal services are increased by: 3,828,000 from NOK 294,663 000 to NOK 298,491000 74 Project grants shall be reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 10 195 000 to NOK 9 195 000 226 Quality development of initial training 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, increased by: 25,000,000 from NOK 1 177 918 000 to NOK 1 202 918 000 71 Grants to knowledge centres shall be increased by: 6,700,000 from NOK 67,075000 to NOK 73,775000 227 Grants to special schools 78 Grants shall be increased by: 2000000 from NOK 164 245000 to NOK 166 245000 228 Grants to independent schools, etc. 77 The German school in Oslo, the estimate, is increased by 3,000,000 from NOK 24 615000 to NOK 27 615000 230 State Special Educational Support System Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 3,000,000 from NOK 714 323,000 to NOK 717 323 000 231 Kindergartens 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, may be used under item 51, reduced by: 3185000 from NOK 457,516,000 to NOK 454,331000 241 Joint actions for the vocational education sector 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, increased by: 12 568 000 from NOK 17 031 000 to NOK 29 599 000 70 Other transfers, may be used under item 21, reduced by: 12 568 000 from NOK 12 568 000 to NOK 0 251 22 July Centre 1 Operating costs, granted by: [[New]] 700000 252 EU education and youth programme 70 Grants shall be reduced by: 13 757,000 from NOK 656 136 000 to NOK 642 379 000 253 Higher Education Colleges 70 Grants to higher education institutions shall be increased by: 5000000 from NOK 898 926 000 to NOK 903 926 000 255 Contribution to Peace and Human Rights Centres 71 The Fallstown Centre shall be increased by: 1 700 000 from NOK 21 496 000 to NOK 23 196,000 256 Competence Norway Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 500000 from NOK 64 258 000 to NOK 63 758 000 258 Measures for lifelong learning 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, may be used under item 1, increased by: 880,000 from NOK 214 844 000 to NOK 223 724 000 260 Universities and higher education institutions 50 State universities and higher education institutions are reduced by: 627 000 from NOK 35 632 559 000 to NOK 35 631 932 000 70 Private higher education institutions are increased by: 9000000 from NOK 1578 967 000 to NOK 1587 967 000 270 International mobility and social purposes for students 75 Grants for the construction of student housing may be transferred, reduced by: 298 466 000 from NOK 662,779 000 to NOK 364,313 000 280 Common Units 50 The Directorate for Internationalisation and Quality Development in Higher Education shall be increased by: 20 500000 from NOK 450 293 000 to NOK 470 793 000 51 UNIT - Directorate for ICT and Joint Services in Higher Education and Research will be increased by: 19 900 000 from NOK 157 654 000 to NOK 177 554 000 281 Joint actions for universities and higher education Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be used under heading 70, increased by: 15,000,000 from NOK 195 742 000 to NOK 210 742 000 50 Grants to the Norwegian Research Council are reduced by: 5000000 from NOK 234 107 000 to NOK 229 107 000 285 Norwegian Research Council 55 Business costs are reduced by: 21 500000 from NOK 792 543 000 to NOK 771 043 000 287 Research institutes and other activities 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, may be used under item 71, reduced by: 400000 from NOK 6845000 to NOK 645000 288 International cooperation actions 72 International basic research organisations are increased by: 13 551 000 from NOK 286 405000 to NOK 299,956000 73 The EU Framework Programme for Research and Innovation may be transferred, increased by: 134 082,000 from NOK 2 240 253 000 to NOK 2 374 335000 75 UNESCO quota shall be reduced by: 2 146 000 from NOK 22 793 000 to NOK 20 647 000 290 Directorate for Integration and Diversity Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 2861 000 from NOK 264 480000 to NOK 267 341000 291 Residence of refugees and measures for immigrants 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, increased by: 7 600 000 from NOK 53 815000 to NOK 61 415000 60 Integration grants, may be transferred, increased by: 85 600 000 from NOK 8 983 088 000 to NOK 9 068 688 000 61 Specific grant for the settlement of lone minor refugees, the estimate is increased by: 2,400,000 from NOK 2 283 887 000 to NOK 2 286 287 000 62 Municipal migration measures are reduced by: 8,630,000 from NOK 269 652,000 to NOK 261 022 000 71 Grants to migrant organisations and other voluntary activities are increased by: 2000000 from NOK 134 953 000 to NOK 136 953 000 73 Grants shall be increased by: 400000 from NOK 14 641000 to NOK 15 041000 292 Norwegian and community education for adult immigrants 60 Grants for training in Norwegian and social skills for adult immigrants are increased by: 18 700 000 from NOK 1425 376 000 to NOK 1444 076 000 300 Ministry of Culture Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 1 330,000 from NOK 170 252 000 to NOK 171 582 000 315 Voluntary objectives 21 Research, investigation and special operating costs may be transferred, increased by: 5000000 from NOK 6 130 000 to NOK 11 130 000 79 At the disposal, increase by: 1000000 from NOK 10 340000 to NOK 11 340000 82 VAT compensation for the construction of sports facilities is increased by: 99000000 from NOK 189 400000 to NOK 288 400000 325 General cultural purposes 21 Research, investigation and specific operational expenditure may be carried over, reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 28 920000 to NOK 27 920000 79 At the disposal, under item 1, may be increased by: 1000000 from NOK 730000 to NOK 830000 326 Language, literature and library purposes Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 100000 from NOK 641 287 000 to NOK 641 187 000 73 Language organisations shall be increased by: 1,300,000 from NOK 26 790 000 to NOK 28 090 000 328 Museum and visual art 70 The national museum network shall be increased by: 17,000,000 from NOK 1747 630000 to NOK 1764 630000 78 Various fixed measures are increased by: 350000 from NOK 116,785000 to NOK 120,285000 334 Film uses, etc. Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 1,550 000 from NOK 112,055000 to NOK 113,605000 50 The Film Fund shall be reduced by: 1,550 000 from NOK 520 160000 to NOK 518 610000 352 Impairment of functionality 21 Special operating costs may be used under item 71, reduced by: 330,000 from NOK 15 060 000 to NOK 14 730000 400 Ministry of Justice and Defence Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 400000 from NOK 468 178 000 to NOK 467 778 000 23 Special operational expenditure, research, evaluation and knowledge acquisition may be transferred, increased by: 1000000 from NOK 30 280 000 to NOK 31 280 000 70 Transfers to private individuals are increased by: 1,300,000 from NOK 10 206 000 to NOK 11 506 000 410 Courts of Justice Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 34 600 000 from NOK 2540 629 000 to NOK 2575 229 000 21 Special operating costs are increased by: 10000000 from NOK 71 935000 to NOK 81 935000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Protective matters/side costs, land change courts, may be transferred, reduced by: 3,862,000 from NOK 6 735 000 to NOK 2 873 000 430 Crime prevention services Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 1 011,000 from NOK 4559 896 000 to NOK 4558 885 000 440 Police Directorate - the Police and Len’s Seat Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 146 663,000 from NOK 18 016 648 000 to NOK 18 163 311000 21 Special operating costs are reduced by: 25 920,000 from NOK 139 507 000 to NOK 113 587 000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Search for marine casualties, in lakes and watercourses, may be transmitted, increased by: 2811,000 from NOK 9 189 000 to NOK 12000000 25 Return of asylum-seekers with refusals and other non-residents without a legal stay, estimates, is reduced by: 25 418 000 from NOK 128 533 000 to NOK 103 115 000 444 Police security service [[PST]] Operating costs are increased by: 172,000,000 from NOK 890 983 000 to NOK 1 062 983 000 445 Higher Public Prosecutor's Office Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 120000 from NOK 262 057 000 to NOK 263 307 000 451 Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be used under cap. 456 entry 1 is increased by: 11 517,000 from NOK 760 355000 to NOK 771 872 000 453 Civil Clearing Authority Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 1 400000 from NOK 31 927 000 to NOK 33 327 000 454 Rescue helicopter service Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 45,000,000 from NOK 690 652,000 to NOK 735 652 000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, reduced by: 456 769 000 from NOK 3094 510000 to NOK 2637 741000 455 Rescue services Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 1 100000 from NOK 109 258 000 to NOK 110 358 000 456 Emergency and emergency communication services Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be used under cap. 451 entry 1 is increased by: 15 600 000 from NOK 128 755000 to NOK 144 355000 21 Special operational expenditure — infrastructure Emergency networks, reduced by: 18 500000 from NOK 366,017,000 to NOK 347,517,000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, increased by: 103,000,000 from NOK 35 176 000 to NOK 138 176 000 460 Special Unit for Police Affairs Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 1 400000 from NOK 47 451000 to NOK 48 851000 466 Special expenditure on criminal matters, etc. Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 97 736 000 from NOK 1 183 838 000 to NOK 1086 102000 467 Norwegian Lovtidend Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 639 000 from NOK 4 340000 to NOK 4 979000 469 Vertegration scheme Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 10,200,000 from NOK 252,675000 to NOK 262,875000 473 Civil law administration of the State 70 Compensation for victims of violence, allocation of an estimate, shall be increased by: 50,000,000 from NOK 300000 to NOK 350000000 475 Out-of-court settlement services Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 23 415 000 from NOK 104,851,000 to NOK 128,266,000 480 Svalbard budget 50 Grants shall be increased by: 6000000 from NOK 360 484 000 to NOK 366 484 000 490 Directorate for Foreign Affairs Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 1250000 from NOK 1034 196,000 to NOK 1021 696 000 21 Special operating expenditure, asylum receipts, is increased by: 184,713,000 from NOK 520 513,000 to NOK 705 226 000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Special operating costs, interpretation and translation, are reduced by: 1,296 000 from NOK 14 896 000 to NOK 13 600 000 60 Grants to host municipalities for asylum recipients shall be increased by: 45 372 000 from NOK 138 354 000 to NOK 183 726 000 70 Social benefits for residents in reception of asylum are increased by: 27 681,000 from NOK 75 378 000 to NOK 103 059 000 72 International migration work, and assisted return and reintegration in the home country, estimates are reduced by: 9 115,000 from NOK 72 069 000 to NOK 62 954000 73 Protection for refugees outside Norway, etc., support measures, may be used under Chapter. 291, entry 60, is increased by 9 149 000 from NOK 11 917,000 to NOK 21 066 000 75 Travel costs for refugees to and from abroad may be carried over, increased by: 9,141,000 from NOK 11 337,000 to NOK 20 478 000 491 Foreigner’s Office Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be used under item 21, reduced by: 7000000 from NOK 293 582 000 to NOK 286 582 000 21 Special operating costs, including treatment, may be used under item 1 increased by: 4,000,000 from NOK 6 370000 to NOK 10 370000 500 Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 930 000 from NOK 408 01000 to NOK 407 071000 23 Rent of common land, etc. , is reduced by: 2,800,000 from NOK 24 664 000 to NOK 21 864 000 510 Ministry Security and Service Organisation 23 22 July to be reduced by: 700000 from NOK 12 260000 to NOK 11 560000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, increased by: 2,800,000 from NOK 49 869 000 to NOK 52 669 000 530 Construction projects outside the housing arrangement 33 The continuation of construction projects may be transferred, increased by: 330,000 from NOK 1780 400000 to NOK 2 110 400000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, increased by: 62000000 from NOK 563000000 to NOK 625000 533 Non-residential property Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 1,450,000 from NOK 20,686 000 to NOK 22 136 000 540 Directorate for Management and ICT Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 930 000 from NOK 291,044 000 to NOK 291,974 000 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, increased by: 500000 from NOK 24 436 000 to NOK 24 936 000 541 IT policy This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The development, implementation and coordination of IT policies, can be transferred, can be used under heading 70, reduced by: 500000 from NOK 21 029 000 to NOK 20 529 000 543 National communication authority Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 9 900 000 from NOK 224 600 000 to NOK 214 700000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, increased by: 6000000 from NOK 16 400000 to NOK 22 400000 71 Broadband extension, may be transmitted, increased by: 50,000,000 from NOK 199 750000 to NOK 249 750000 560 Sámi 50 Sami languages, culture and social life are increased by: 13,000,000 from NOK 497 069 000 to NOK 510 069 000 571 Framework grants to municipalities 60 Intrinsic subsidies are increased by: 232 390,000 from NOK 131 519 299 000 to NOK 131 751 689 000 572 Framework grant to county municipalities 60 Intrinsic subsidies are increased by: 56,000,000 from NOK 33 563 319 000 to NOK 33 619 319 000 581 Dwelling and housing measures 70 Housing aid, estimates, is reduced by: 22 800000 from NOK 3 102 591 000 to NOK 3079 791000 75 Establishment and adaptation of dwellings are increased by: 117 500000 from NOK 481,574 000 to NOK 599,074 000 76 Rentals, may be transferred, reduced by: 252 162,000 from NOK 710 464 000 to NOK 458 302 000 595 Staten Kartsverk Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be used under items 21 and 45, reduced by: 100000 000 from NOK 899 021 000 to NOK 799 021 000 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, may be used under items 1 and 45, increased by: 140 500000 from NOK 217 920000 to NOK 358 420000 601 Exploration, research and related activities This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Knowledge development IA agreement, etc. , may be transmitted, reduced by: 53,000,000 from NOK 81000000 to NOK 28000000 70 Grants shall be reduced by: 10000000 from NOK 36 730000 to NOK 26 730000 71 Contributions to sectoral programmes under the IA Agreement, etc. , by: [[New]] 53,000,000 605 The seat of employment and welfare Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 20 140 000 from NOK 11 681 785000 to NOK 11 701 925000 611 Pensions of state funds Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs, estimates, are reduced by: 1500000 from NOK 17 500000 to NOK 16000000 612 Grants to State pension fund Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs, estimates, are increased by: 717,000,000 from NOK 4253000000 to NOK 4970000000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Final settlement, allocation of estimates, is increased by: 200000000 from NOK -1 849000000 to NOK -1 649000000 70 For other members of the State pension fund, the estimate is increased by: 15,000,000 from NOK 161000000 to NOK 176000000 613 Employer’s fee for social security 70 For other members of the State pension fund, the estimate is reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 24000000 to NOK 23000000 614 Housing loan scheme of the State pension fund Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 5000000 from NOK 27000000 to NOK 32000000 90 Loans, estimates, are increased by: 4,200,000,000 from NOK 5 900000000 to NOK 10 10000000 634 Labour market measures 76 Measures for job seekers may be transferred, reduced by: 15,000,000 from NOK 7 110 545000 to NOK 7095 545000 77 Permanently organised work may be transferred, increased by: 15,000,000 from NOK 1503 905000 to NOK 1518 905000 660 War Pension 70 Grants, military, allocation of estimates, are reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 59000000 to NOK 58000000 71 Grants, civil, estimates, are increased by: 1000000 from NOK 159000000 to NOK 160000000 664 Seafarer pension scheme 70 Grants shall be increased by: 2000000 from NOK 37000000 to NOK 39000000 666 Retirement contract [[AFP]] Grants, estimate appropriations, are reduced by: 10000000 from NOK 2490000000 to NOK 2480000000 667 Supplementary social benefits for persons over 67 years of age 70 Grants, estimate appropriations, are reduced by: 15,000,000 from NOK 3450000000 to NOK 330000000 700 Ministry of Health and Welfare Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 4,900,000 from NOK 240 961000 to NOK 236 061000 701 E-health, health records, etc. 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, increased by: 12 400000 from NOK 468 181,000 to NOK 480 581 000 704 The Health Archive 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, increased by: 3,000,000 from NOK 46000000 to NOK 49000000 709 Patient and User Ombudsmen Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 2000000 from NOK 74 021 000 to NOK 72 021 000 710 Vaccines, etc. 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, increased by: 12 200000 from NOK 336 375000 to NOK 348 575000 714 Public health 60 Municipal actions, may be transferred, can be used under item 21, reduced by: 2,600,000 from NOK 93,013,000 to NOK 90,413,000 70 Drug action, etc. , may be transferred, may be used under item 21, increased by: 2000000 from NOK 130 477 000 to NOK 132 477 000 732 Regional health establishments 70 Specific grants, may be carried over, may be used under headings 72, 73, 74 and 75, reduced by: 30,000,000 from NOK 874 059 000 to NOK 844 059 000 72 Basic appropriations Health south-east RHF, may be carried over, increased by: 647,000,000 from NOK 53 571 938 000 to NOK 54 218 938 000 73 Basic appropriations Health West RHF, may be carried over, increased by: 227,000,000 from NOK 18 781 421,000 to NOK 19 008 421000 74 Basic appropriations Health Middle Norway RHF, may be carried over, increased by: 172,000,000 from NOK 14 270 445000 to NOK 14 442 445000 75 Basic appropriations Health Nord RHF, may be carried over, increased by: 154,000,000 from NOK 12 726 632,000 to NOK 12 880 632,000 76 Intervention-driven financing, estimates, is increased by: 2500000 from NOK 37 843 728,000 to NOK 37 846 228 000 77 Laboratory and radiological studies, estimates, are reduced by: 111 500000 from NOK 3 119 112000 to NOK 3 007 612000 86 Operating credits shall be reduced by: 1,250,000,000 from NOK 3359000000 to NOK 2 159000000 740 Directorate for Health Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 500000 from NOK 1,212,918,000 to NOK 1,218,418 000 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, increased by: 5000000 from NOK 30 421000 to NOK 35 421000 744 Directorate for eHealth Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 23,000,000 from NOK 213 594 000 to NOK 236 594 000 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, increased by: 20,000,000 from NOK 150 992,000 to NOK 170 992,000 745 Public health institute Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 600 000 from NOK 1.044 831000 to NOK 1.045 431000 746 National Agency for Medicinal Products Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 5,083,000 from NOK 288 252,000 to NOK 293 335000 747 Directorate for Radiation Protection and Nuclear Safety Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 520000 from NOK 94 236 000 to NOK 99 486 000 21 Special operating costs may be transferred, reduced by: 3,200,000 from NOK 18 432 000 to NOK 15 232 000 748 National Health Supervisors Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 500000 from NOK 159 164 000 to NOK 153 664 000 761 Nursing services 61 Host municipalities increased by: 24000000 from NOK 934 778 000 to NOK 958 778 000 62 Daily activity offers, can be transferred, reduced by: 15,000,000 from NOK 347 998 000 to NOK 332 998 000 63 Investment grants – rehabilitation, can be transferred, can be used under heading 69, increased by: 39,825,000 from NOK 4 213 357 000 to NOK 4 253 182 000 65 Trials of state funding of care services, estimates, are reduced by: 136 790,000 from NOK 1 482 840000 to NOK 1 346 050000 69 Investment grants – net growth, may be transferred, increased by: 39 200000 from NOK 65 400000 to NOK 104 600 000 73 Special care needs are increased by: 30,000,000 from NOK 24 375 000 to NOK 54 375 000 762 Primary Health Service 21 Special operating costs may be used under heading 70, reduced by: 640000 from NOK 121 688 000 to NOK 115 288 000 61 Prison health services are increased by: 283,000 from NOK 178 866 000 to NOK 179 149 000 765 Psychiatric and drug services 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, may be used under item 72, increased by: 10 600 000 from NOK 108 523 000 to NOK 119 123 000 72 Voluntary work, etc. , may be transferred, may be used under item 21, increased by: 2 100000 from NOK 402 142 000 to NOK 404 242 000 75 Violence and traumatic stress can be transmitted, reduced by: 3,600,000 from NOK 220 039 000 to NOK 216 439 000 844 Cash support 70 Grants, estimate appropriations, are reduced by: 190 890,000 from NOK 1800 890 000 to NOK 1610000000 845 Child-rescue 70 Grants, estimate appropriations, are reduced by: 82,000,000 from NOK 15 872000000 to NOK 15 790000000 846 Family and growth measures 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, may be used under item 61 and item 71, increased by: 5,400,000 from NOK 12 650000 to NOK 18 050000 50 The Norwegian Research Council may be used under heading 21 by: 500000 from NOK 3218 000 to NOK 2718 000 61 National grant scheme against child poverty can be used under item 71, reduced by: 4500000 from NOK 311 985000 to NOK 307 485000 854 Measures in the field of child protection 21 Special operating costs may be used under item 71, increased by: 14 900 000 from NOK 72 371000 to NOK 87 271000 50 Research and development are reduced by: 1500000 from NOK 17 631000 to NOK 16 131 000 71 Development and information, etc. , may be used under heading 21, increased by: 4 100000 from NOK 36 058 000 to NOK 40 158 000 855 State administration of child protection Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be used under item 22 and item 60, increased by: 260,000,000 from NOK 3841 242 000 to NOK 4 101 242 000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Purchases of private child protection services may be used under item 1, increased by: 54,000,000 from NOK 2623 089 000 to NOK 2677 089 000 60 Reimbursement of municipal expenditure on child protection measures under item 1 may be reduced by: 64 000 000 from NOK 426 801000 to NOK 362 801000 856 Childcare centre for lone minor asylum seekers Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 15,000,000 from NOK 156 429 000 to NOK 141 429 000 865 Consumer policy measures 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, may be used under item 50, reduced by: 180 000 from NOK 2 244 000 to NOK 2 064 000 70 Grants, may be used under item 21, increased by: 280 000 from NOK 1453 000 to NOK 1733 000 882 Cemeteries and cemeteries 61 Grants for peaceful and protective church buildings may be transferred, granted by: [[New]] 20,000,000 900 Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries 21 Special operating costs may be transferred, reduced by: 6000000 from NOK 61 927,000 to NOK 55 927,000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Safe management of Norwegian nuclear waste and installations, can be transferred, can be used under cover. 929, entry 51, is increased by 27 900 000 from NOK 70000000 to NOK 97 900 000 75 Grants to specific projects may be transferred, reduced by: 1500000 from NOK 8,045000 to NOK 6,545000 904 The Brønn Island Registers Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 20,000,000 from NOK 328 430000 to NOK 348 430000 909 Measures for employment of seafarers 73 Allowances for employment of seafarers, estimates, are increased by: 36,700,000 from NOK 1785000000 to NOK 1821 700000 911 Supervision of competition Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 650000 from NOK 110 450000 to NOK 116 950000 912 General Secretariat for Complaints Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 1 194,000 from NOK 19 550000 to NOK 20 744000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The subject of competition shall be increased by: 5,800,000 from NOK 247 000 to NOK 8 257 000 917 Directorate for Fisheries Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 5,750,000 from NOK 404 350000 to NOK 410 100000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Fisheries research and monitoring may be transferred, increased by: 19 765 000 from NOK 70 966 000 to NOK 90 731000 919 Miscellaneous fishing purposes 60 Grants to municipalities and counties are increased by: 25 146 000 from NOK 519000000 to NOK 544 146 000 76 Grants for fisheries research may be transferred, reduced by: 7000000 from NOK 15000000 to NOK 8000000 922 Space activities 70 Quota of European Space Agency [[ESA]] 4,300,000 from NOK 215 375000 to NOK 219 675000 71 International space activities are increased by: 6,700,000 from NOK 465 250000 to NOK 471 950000 73 EU space programmes are reduced by: 124 630,000 from NOK 487 300000 to NOK 362,670000 923 Marine Research Institute Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 4,000,000 from NOK 644 800000 to NOK 640 800000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Fisheries research and monitoring may be transferred, increased by: 20,000,000 from NOK 150 530000 to NOK 170 530000 924 International cooperation and development programmes 70 Grants shall be reduced by: 9 930 000 from NOK 16000000 to NOK 6070000 926 Marine Research Institute, research vessel Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 4,000,000 from NOK 184 450000 to NOK 188 450000 929 Institute of Energy Engineering This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Securing of nuclear installations may be transmitted, increased by: 20,000,000 from NOK 40000000 to NOK 60000000 51 Grants for nuclear research, may be transferred, may be used under Chapter. 900, entry 22, increased by 114,000,000 from NOK 147000000 to NOK 261000000 935 Patent-controlled Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 4500000 from NOK 258 400000 to NOK 262 900 000 950 Management of state ownership 51 Loss provision, equity contributions to Great Norwegian Spitsbergen Kulkkompani AS, are granted by: [[New]] 43,000,000 52 Risk capital, Nysnø Climate investment AS, is increased by: 35,000,000 from NOK 140000000 to NOK 175000000 71 Grants for the depreciation of equity Electronic Chart Centre AS, granted by [[New]] 20,000,000 90 Capital deposits, Nysnø Climate investment AS, are increased by: 65 000 000 from NOK 260000000 to NOK 325000000 1100 Ministry of Agriculture and Food 45 Major equipment acquisitions and maintenance – ordinary administrative bodies, may be transferred, can be used under heading 50, reduced by: 2,600,000 from NOK 2 720 000 to NOK 120000 49 Purchases of real estate, by: [[New]] 2,600,000 1112 Knowledge development and preparedness, etc. in the food field 50 Knowledge development, knowledge dissemination and preparedness, the Veterinary Institute, shall be increased by: 30,000,000 from NOK 97 9776000 to NOK 127 976000 1137 Research and innovation 70 Innovation activities, etc. , may be transferred, increased by: 3,000,000 from NOK 350000 to NOK 650000 1142 Directorate for Agriculture 77 Allowances for compensation in the event of the closure of the husbandry of fur animals may be transferred, granted by: [[New]] 20,000,000 1148 Natural damage - claims 71 Natural damage – claims, allocation of estimates, increased by: 22 400000 from NOK 152 600 000 to NOK 175 000 1150 For the implementation of the agricultural agreement, etc. 71 Subsidies for claims, etc. , estimates are increased by: 525000 from NOK 43000000 to NOK 568000000 1300 Ministry of Transport 71 Aid for road safety purposes, etc. , increased by: 2500000 from NOK 69000000 to NOK 71 500000 1320 State Road Service Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 290 500000 from NOK 4 334 900 000 to NOK 4 625 400000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Operation and maintenance of highways, may be carried over, may be used under item 29 and item 30, reduced by: 356 500000 from NOK 6 631 800000 to NOK 6275 300000 28 Traffic and vehicle supervision may be transmitted, reduced by: 110,000,000 from NOK 2 179 500000 to NOK 2 069 500000 29 OPS projects, may be transferred, may be used under item 30, reduced by: 430,000 from NOK 1631 400000 to NOK 1 201 400000 30 National road investments may be carried over, may be used under item 22, item 29 and item 31, increased by: 680,000 from NOK 12,555 200000 to NOK 13,235 200000 73 Subsidies for reduced toll tariffs outside urban areas are increased by: 200000000 from NOK 531 400000 to NOK 731 400000 1352 Railway Directorate Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 109 700 000 from NOK 468 500000 to NOK 358 800000 71 Purchases of infrastructure services — operation and maintenance, may be carried over, may be used under item 72, item 73 and item 74, increased by: 292,000,000 from NOK 8 423 500000 to NOK 8 715 500000 72 Purchases of infrastructure services — investment planning, transferability, use of item 71 and item 73 are reduced by: 511,000,000 from NOK 2 153000000 to NOK 1642000000 73 Purchases of infrastructure services – investments, transferable, can be used under items 71, 72 and 74, increased by: 101,000,000 from NOK 9 988 700000 to NOK 10 089 700000 75 Contributions to the transfer of goods from road to rail, granted by [[New]] 60,000,000 1360 Coastal works 30 New installations and major maintenance may be transferred, increased by: 38,000,000 from NOK 378 500000 to NOK 416 500000 34 Compensation for increased employer's tax may be transferred, reduced by: 25 200000 from NOK 25 200000 to NOK 0 72 Contributions for the transfer of goods from road to sea may be transferred, reduced by: 27 400000 from NOK 77 400000 to NOK 50000000 1400 Ministry of Climate and Environment 71 International organisations are increased by: 1,800,000 from NOK 88 053 000 to NOK 89 853 000 1410 Knowledge of the climate and the environment 21 Environmental monitoring is reduced by: 2500000 from NOK 277 297 000 to NOK 274 797 000 1412 Meteorology purposes 50 The Meteorological Institute shall be increased by: 12 900 000 from NOK 313 882,000 to NOK 326 782,000 70 International cooperation projects are reduced by: 29 898 000 from NOK 172 566 000 to NOK 142 668 000 1420 Directorate for the Environment Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 5 112 000 from NOK 694 287 000 to NOK 699 399 000 61 Contributions to climate action and adaptation may be transferred, reduced by: 18 330,000 from NOK 208 230000 to NOK 189 900 000 63 Return arrangements for end-of-life recreational craft are reduced by: 10000000 from NOK 20000000 to NOK 10000000 75 Payments for wreckage and vehicle and recreational boat allowances, estimate appropriations, are reduced by: 85 992,000 from NOK 640 992,000 to NOK 555000000 76 Reimbursement schemes, estimates, are increased by: 26 536 000 from NOK 137 464 000 to NOK 164 000 81 Natural and cultural heritage, may be transferred, can be used under item 21, increased by: 300000 from NOK 67,011000 to NOK 67,311000 85 Natural information centres may be transferred, increased by: 2500000 from NOK 69,031000 to NOK 71,531000 1428 Reduced greenhouse gas emissions, energy conversion, energy and climate technologies 50 Transfer to the Climate and Energy Fund shall be increased by: 50,000,000 from NOK 3164 450000 to NOK 3 214 450000 1429 Riksantikvaren Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 2 067 000 from NOK 148 540000 to NOK 146 473 000 21 Special operating costs are increased by: 3,000,000 from NOK 37 719 000 to NOK 40 719 000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Conservation tasks may be transferred, reduced by: 3,000,000 from NOK 24 708 000 to NOK 21 708 000 73 Subsidies for medieval and fire protection buildings and installations may be increased by: 1000000 from NOK 57 575 000 to NOK 58 575 000 1471 Norwegian Polar Institute Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 2,248,000 from NOK 242 376 000 to NOK 240 128 000 21 Special operating costs may be transferred, reduced by: 1 786 000 from NOK 77 243 000 to NOK 75 457 000 1473 Kings Bay AS 70 Grants shall be increased by: 1 989,000 from NOK 30 270000 to NOK 32 259000 1600 Ministry of Finance Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 5000000 from NOK 390 800000 to NOK 385 800000 21 Special operating costs may be transferred, reduced by: 6,330,000 from NOK 90 900 000 to NOK 84 570000 1605 Directorate for Financial Management Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 50,000,000 from NOK 507 200000 to NOK 557 200000 1610 Customs duties 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, increased by: 12 200000 from NOK 90 200000 to NOK 102 400000 1618 Tax receipts Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 6,283,000 from NOK 6 062 100000 to NOK 6 055 817 000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Major IT projects may be transferred, reduced by: 58,000,000 from NOK 472 800000 to NOK 414 800000 23 Special operating costs, a scheme, are increased by: 3,800,000 from NOK 88 100000 to NOK 91 900 000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, reduced by: 7000000 from NOK 115000000 to NOK 108000000 70 Grants shall be increased by: 1500000 from NOK 350000 to NOK 5000000 1620 Statistical Central Bureau Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 2,400,000 from NOK 593 300000 to NOK 595 700000 1632 Compensation for VAT 61 Grants to municipalities and county councils, estimates, are increased by: 80000000 from NOK 24 600000000 to NOK 25 400000000 1633 Net scheme, State-paid VAT Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs, estimates, are increased by: 200000000 from NOK 6 600000000 to NOK 6 800000000 1651 Central government debt, repayments and redemptions 98 Deductions on domestic debt, estimated appropriations, are reduced by: 12 414,000,000 from NOK 76 515 000 to NOK 64 101 000 000 1700 Ministry of Defence Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 39 822,000 from NOK 819 030 000 to NOK 858 852 000 21 Special operating costs, may be transferred, estimated appropriations, are reduced by: 48,779,000 from NOK 128 779 000 to NOK 80 000 000 71 Transfers to others may be transferred, reduced by: 4,000,000 from NOK 66 346 000 to NOK 62 346 000 74 Transferability to a limited liability company may be transferred, granted by: [[New]] 172,000,000 1710 Defence and new buildings and new installations 47 New buildings and new installations, can be transferred, can be used under cap. 1761, entry 47 is reduced by 100000 000 from NOK 2546 032 000 to NOK 2446 032 000 1720 Common Defence Capabilities Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 338 879 000 from NOK 9 217 413,000 to NOK 9 556 292 000 1731 Army Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 234 173 000 from NOK 5 566 035 000 to NOK 5 800 208 000 1732 Sea defence services Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 604 346,000 from NOK 4 389 630000 to NOK 4 993 976000 1733 Air Force Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 222 975,000 from NOK 5 292 845000 to NOK 5 515 820000 1734 Home Security Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 10,833,000 from NOK 1394 798 000 to NOK 1383 965 000 1735 Intelligence 21 Special operating costs are increased by: 17 807,000 from NOK 2 005 584 000 to NOK 2 023 391 000 1760 Defence and major acquisitions and maintenance Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be used under cap. 1760, entry 45, reduced by 61 434 000 from NOK 1629,765000 to NOK 1568,331,000 44 Joint funded investments, nationally financed shares, may be transferred, reduced by: 26 200000 from NOK 83 185000 to NOK 56 985000 45 Major acquisitions and maintenance of equipment may be carried over, may be used under cover. 1761, entry 45 is increased by 33 431,000 from NOK 8 952 590000 to NOK 8 986 021000 48 Jointly financed investments, jointly financed, may be transferred, reduced by: 152 889 000 from NOK 205000000 to NOK 52 111 000 1761 New base-solution fighter aircraft 47 New buildings and new installations, can be transferred, can be used under cap. 1710, entry 47 is increased by: 100000 000 from NOK 1,176,449 000 to NOK 1,276,449 000 1790 Coast Guard Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 81 170 000 from NOK 1157 875000 to NOK 1076 705000 1791 Rescue helicopter service Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 44 639 000 from NOK 866 848 000 to NOK 911 487 000 1792 Norwegian forces abroad Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 2 599 000 from NOK 990 316 000 to NOK 992 915000 1800 Ministry of Oil and Energy 70 Grants to international organisations, etc. , is reduced by: 3,000,000 from NOK 10000000 to NOK 7000000 1830 Research and industrial development 70 Grants to Nordic Energy Research are reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 11000000 to NOK 10000000 1840 CO 2 management 72 Full scale CO 2 handling, can be transferred, can be used under heading 70, increased by: 150000000 from NOK 149000000 to NOK 299000000 2410 State Loan Fund for Education Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be used under item 45, increased by: 20,000,000 from NOK 392 941000 to NOK 412 941000 50 Appropriations for education grants, estimates, are increased by: 68 167 000 from NOK 7 170 151,000 to NOK 7 238 318 000 70 Training grants, estimates, are increased by: 435 443,000 from NOK 2983 362,000 to NOK 3418 805000 71 Other scholarships, estimate appropriations, are reduced by: 29 740,000 from NOK 742 493 000 to NOK 712 753 000 72 Interest subsidies, estimates, are increased by: 25 510000 from NOK 12,255,776 000 to NOK 1,281,86 000 73 Depreciation, estimate allocation, is increased by: 135 088 000 from NOK 602 006000 to NOK 737 094000 74 Losses on loans increased by: 1,300,000 from NOK 386 200000 to NOK 387 500000 90 Increases in loans and interest payable, estimates are reduced by: 6479 000 from NOK 28 594 604 000 to NOK 28 588 125 000 2412 The Bank of Homes Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 2000000 from NOK 354 910000 to NOK 356 910000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, increased by: 2000000 from NOK 38 844 000 to NOK 40 844 000 90 New loans, estimates, are increased by: 1,410,000 from NOK 14 33000000 to NOK 15 740000000 2421 Innovation Norway 80 Activities of Svalbard, financed by: [[New]] 3,200,000 2440 Direct economic involvement of the country in the petroleum industry 30 Investments are increased by: 2,000,000 from NOK 27000000 to NOK 29000000 2445 State-owned buildings 30 Building design, may be transferred, reduced by: 22,000,000 from NOK 648 401,000 to NOK 626 401000 33 The continuation of ordinary construction projects may be transferred, increased by: 200000000 from NOK 2237 450000 to NOK 2437 450000 34 The continuation of user-funded construction projects may be transferred, increased by: 100000 000 from NOK 713000000 to NOK 813000000 2470 General government pension fund 24 Operating result: 1 Revenue, forecasting -652,695,000 2 Operating expenditure, estimate appropriations 448 822,000 3 Depreciation 130 606 000 4 Interest on the capital of the country 207,000 5 For investment purposes 55 645000 Sum: -17 415 000 2530 Parental carcass 70 Birth culls, estimated appropriations, are reduced by: 694,000,000 from NOK 19 174000000 to NOK 18 480000000 71 Birth and adoption lump sum estimates are reduced by: 67,000,000 from NOK 927000000 to NOK 860000 000 72 Parental leave allowance, estimated appropriation, is reduced by: 5000000 from NOK 485000000 to NOK 480000000 73 Adoption obituaries, estimates, are reduced by: 7000000 from NOK 63000000 to NOK 56000000 2541 Day money 70 Appropriations for the day shall be reduced by: 1,053,000,000 from NOK 10 253000000 to NOK 9 20000000 2542 State guarantee on claims for wages and salaries in the event of bankruptcy, etc. 70 State guarantee on claims for wages and salaries in the event of bankruptcy, etc. , estimates are reduced by: 45,000,000 from NOK 890000 to NOK 8450000000 2620 Social benefits to a lonely mother or father 70 Transitional assistance, estimated allocation, is reduced by: 230 000 000 from NOK 1940000000 to NOK 1710000000 72 Social assistance for child care of a lone mother or father in work, estimates are reduced by: 23,000,000 from NOK 170000000 to NOK 147000000 73 Supplementary and school-related social benefits, estimates are reduced by: 19 700 000 from NOK 91 700000 to NOK 72 000 000 76 Contribution advances shall be increased by: 15 800000 from NOK 704 200000 to NOK 720 000 000 2650 Sykepenger 70 Sickness allowance for employees, etc. , estimates are increased by: 110,000,000 from NOK 37 190 000 to NOK 37 300000 71 Sickness benefits for self-employed persons, estimated appropriations, are reduced by: 100000 000 from NOK 148000000 to NOK 1380000000 72 Nursing, training, n.e.c. , estimates are reduced by: 53 500000 from NOK 1000000 to NOK 946 500000 75 Health care holiday pay, estimated, is increased by: 20,000,000 from NOK 2 080000000 to NOK 2 10000000 2651 Clearance of duties 70 Clearance of work, allocation of estimates, is reduced by: 2,240,000,000 from NOK 31 670000000 to NOK 29 430000000 71 Supplementary aid, estimated allocation, is reduced by: 47 600 000 from NOK 229 600 000 to NOK 182000000 72 Medical statements shall be reduced by: 35,000,000 from NOK 425000 to NOK 390000 2655 Disability 70 Misappropriation, allocation of estimates, increased by: 1 540,000 from NOK 92 950000 to NOK 94 490000 75 Men's compensation in the event of occupational injury, estimated appropriations, shall be reduced by: 16,000,000 from NOK 86000000 to NOK 70000000 76 Occupational injury prevention gml. legislation, the allocation of estimates, shall be reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 41000000 to NOK 40000000 2661 Basic and auxiliary aid, aids, etc. 70 Basic aid, estimates, is reduced by: 21 600 000 from NOK 1761 600 000 to NOK 1740 000 71 Auxiliary services, estimate appropriations, increased by 25 300000 from NOK 1514 700000 to NOK 1540000000 73 Utilities, etc. in the course of work and training, shall be reduced by: 4,000,000 from NOK 130000000 to NOK 126000000 74 Supplements to cars are reduced by: 111 900 000 from NOK 846 900 000 to NOK 735000 75 Improvement of functionality, aids, is reduced by: 29 600 000 from NOK 3 3 369 600 000 to NOK 3 340 000 77 Orthopaedic aids, reduced by: 67 300000 from NOK 1637 300000 to NOK 1570000000 78 Hearing aids, reduced by: 27,670,000 from NOK 737 670000 to NOK 71000000 79 Activity aids for persons over 26 years of age are increased by: 15,000,000 from NOK 50 450000 to NOK 65 450000 2670 Age 70 Basic pension, estimated appropriation, is reduced by: 170,000,000 from NOK 75 740000000 to NOK 75 570000000 72 Pensions on income, estimates, are increased by: 10000000 from NOK 2730000000 to NOK 2740000000 73 Special supplements, pension supplements etc. , estimates are increased by: 22,000,000 from NOK 6 158000000 to NOK 6 180000000 2680 Survivors 71 Supplementary pension, estimated appropriation, is increased by: 5000000 from NOK 805000000 to NOK 810000000 72 Special supplement, estimate allocation, is reduced by: 2000000 from NOK 85000000 to NOK 83000000 2686 gravitational assistance 70 gravitational allowances, estimate appropriations, are increased by: 9000000 from NOK 1996000000 to NOK 205000000 2711 Specialist health services, etc. 70 Specialist assistance, increased by: 5000000 from NOK 2235000000 to NOK 2240000000 71 Psychological assistance, reduced by: 10000000 from NOK 323000000 to NOK 313000000 72 Dental treatment, reduced by: 118 320 000 from NOK 2,318,320 000 to NOK 2,200,000 76 Private laboratories and X-ray institutes shall be increased by: 26,000,000 from NOK 1024000000 to NOK 1050000000 2751 Medicinal products n.e.c. 70 Medicinal products, increased by 79 200000 from NOK 9 310 800000 to NOK 9 390 000 71 Medical statements shall be increased by: 1000000 from NOK 7000000 to NOK 8000000 72 Medical consumables are reduced by: 32 100000 from NOK 2042 100000 to NOK 2 010 000 2752 Reimbursement of self-payment 70 Self-proprietary cap 1, reduced by: 44 200000 from NOK 5 214 200000 to NOK 5 170 000 71 Self-proprietary cap 2, reduced by: 19,000,000 from NOK 1014000000 to NOK 995000000 2755 Health services in municipalities etc. 62 Remuneration scheme physiotherapists, may be used under heading 71, increased by: 16,000,000 from NOK 413000000 to NOK 429000000 70 General medical care is reduced by: 124 600 000 from NOK 5 274 600 000 to NOK 5150000000 71 Physiotherapy, may be used under heading 62, is increased by: 45,000,000 from NOK 1,180000000 to NOK 1,225000000 72 midwifery assistance, increased by: 2000000 from NOK 61000000 to NOK 63000000 73 Chiropractor therapy is increased by: 5000000 from NOK 174000000 to NOK 179000000 75 Logopedic and orthopaedic treatments are increased by: 4,000,000 from NOK 164000000 to NOK 168000000 2756 Other health services 70 Health services in other EEA countries are increased by: 3,000,000 from NOK 13000000 to NOK 16000000 71 Health services abroad etc. , is reduced by: 90 000 000 from NOK 490000 to NOK 400000 72 Health services to non-residents, etc. , is reduced by: 20,000,000 from NOK 240000000 to NOK 220000000 2790 Other health measures 70 Contributions, reduced by 4,900,000 from NOK 254,900000 to NOK 250000000 3225 Basic training measures 4 Reimbursement of ODA-approved expenditure, increased by: 7,231,000 from NOK 19 734 000 to NOK 26 965 000 3288 International cooperation actions 4 Reimbursement of ODA-approved expenditure, reduced by: 587,000 from NOK 5698 000 to NOK 511000 3292 Norwegian and community education for adult immigrants Add User-ID Succeeded Norwegian receipt training, ODA-approved expenditure, is increased by: 1,800,000 from NOK 24 185000 to NOK 25 985000 3400 Ministry of Justice and Defence 2 Reimbursement of ODA-approved expenditure, granted by [[New]] 1000000 3410 Courts of Justice 4 Protective matters relating to land change courts shall be reduced by: 3,043,000 from NOK 5 916 000 to NOK 2 873 000 3440 Police Directorate - the Police and Len’s Seat 2 Reimbursements, etc. , is reduced by: 19 400000 from NOK 280 624 000 to NOK 261 224 000 6 Fee — Foreign affairs, reduced by: 14 770,000 from NOK 282 259 000 to NOK 267 489 000 8 Reimbursements from the EU Border and Visa Fund are increased by: 4,700,000 from NOK 21 258 000 to NOK 25 958 000 3456 Emergency and emergency communication services Add User-ID Succeeded Subscription income is reduced by: 1 600 000 from NOK 347 305000 to NOK 345 705000 4 Reimbursements of major equipment acquisitions and maintenance are increased by: 95,000,000 from NOK 9 623 000 to NOK 104 623 000 3490 Directorate for Foreign Affairs Add User-ID Succeeded Assisted return from Norway for rejected asylum seekers, ODA-approved expenditure, is reduced by: 1,084 000 from NOK 1845000 to NOK 761000 3 Travel expenses for refugees to and from abroad, ODA-approved expenditure, are increased by: 10 371,000 from NOK 13 255 000 to NOK 23 626 000 4 Asylum recipients, ODA-approved expenditure, are increased by: 101 247 000 from NOK 279 091000 to NOK 380 338 000 5 Reimbursement income is reduced by: 1 899 000 from NOK 8 862 000 to NOK 6 963 000 6 Protection for refugees outside Norway, etc., ODA-approved expenditure, is increased by: 9 149 000 from NOK 11 917,000 to NOK 21 066 000 7 Interpretation and translation, ODA-approved expenditure, is reduced by: 1 678 000 from NOK 14 604000 to NOK 12 926000 8 International migration work and reintegration in the home country, ODA-approved expenditure, are reduced by: 15 792,000 from NOK 55 128 000 to NOK 39 336 000 3595 Staten Kartsverk 2 Sales and subscriptions, etc. , increased by: 9,200,000 from NOK 134 668 000 to NOK 143 868 000 3605 The seat of employment and welfare Add User-ID Succeeded Administrative allowances shall be increased by: 1,140 000 from NOK 9 260000 to NOK 10 400000 6 Fee income for the determination of contributions shall be reduced by: 2,300,000 from NOK 27 600 000 to NOK 25 300000 3614 Housing loan scheme of the State pension fund Add User-ID Succeeded Fee income, loans, is increased by: 5000000 from NOK 23000000 to NOK 28000000 90 Repayment of loans shall be increased by: 200000000 from NOK 10 900000000 to NOK 11 10000000 3635 Wages and salaries, etc. Add User-ID Succeeded Reimbursement of State activities, etc. , increased by: 1000000 from NOK 8000000 to NOK 9000000 3704 The Health Archive 2 Miscellaneous revenue, by [[New]] 3,000,000 3740 Directorate for Health 5 Health services to non-residents, etc. , increased by: 12,000,000 from NOK 63000000 to NOK 75000000 3747 Directorate for Radiation Protection and Nuclear Safety 2 Miscellaneous income is reduced by: 2,900,000 from NOK 19 831,000 to NOK 16 931000 4 Fee revenue shall be increased by: 230000 from NOK 9 151,000 to NOK 11 501000 3855 State administration of child protection 60 Local peculiarities are increased by: 50,000,000 from NOK 1437 256 000 to NOK 1487 256 000 3906 Directorate for Mineral Management with the Bergmeister for Svalbard 86 Infringement fee and periodic penalty payment, granted by [[New]] 1000000 3912 General Secretariat for Complaints 2 Reimbursements and other income are increased by: 194,000 from NOK 206 000 to NOK 400000 87 Infringement fee shall be increased by: 4,140 000 from NOK 100000 to NOK 4 240 000 3917 Directorate for Fisheries Add User-ID Succeeded Reimbursements and miscellaneous income are increased by: 5,747,000 from NOK 103 000 to NOK 5850 000 3935 Patent-controlled 4 Miscellaneous income, by [[New]] 4500000 3940 Internationalisation measures 70 Refunds from the Baltic Investment Programme shall be granted by: [[New]] 6,700,000 3950 Management of state ownership 91 Depreciation of equity Electronic Chart Centre AS, granted by [[New]] 20,000,000 4352 Railway Directorate Add User-ID Succeeded Payments to Norwegian Railway School and Norwegian Railway Museum are reduced by: 96 200000 from NOK 98 600 000 to NOK 2 400000 4481 Sale of climate allowances Add User-ID Succeeded Sales income is reduced by: 2 565,000,000 from NOK 7 181 722 000 to NOK 4 616 722 000 4605 Directorate for Financial Management Add User-ID Succeeded Economic services are increased by: 50,000,000 from NOK 51 600 000 to NOK 101 600 000 4610 Customs duties 4 Miscellaneous reimbursements are increased by: 570000 from NOK 1 100000 to NOK 6 800000 4618 Tax receipts 86 Fines, withdrawals, etc. , is reduced by: 50,000,000 from NOK 1430000000 to NOK 1380000000 88 Delay fee, the Accounting Register, is reduced by: 37 600 000 from NOK 262 600 000 to NOK 225 000 4620 Statistical Central Bureau 85 The periodic penalty payment shall be reduced by: 10000000 from NOK 25000000 to NOK 15000000 4700 Ministry of Defence Add User-ID Succeeded Revenue is increased by: 14 420,000 from NOK 25,745000 to NOK 40,165000 4720 Common Defence Capabilities Add User-ID Succeeded Revenue is increased by: 705 772 000 from NOK 517 737 000 to NOK 1,223 509 000 4731 Army Add User-ID Succeeded Revenue is increased by: 7 326,000 from NOK 91 984 000 to NOK 99 310000 4734 Home Security Add User-ID Succeeded Revenue is increased by: 13 515,000 from NOK 5 766 000 to NOK 19 281000 4760 Defence and major acquisitions and maintenance Add User-ID Succeeded Revenues are reduced by: 2908 000 from NOK 33 090 000 to NOK 30 182 000 45 Larger equipment acquisition and maintenance, revenue, granted by [[New]] 34 460,000 48 Jointly financed investments, income, are reduced by: 150 600 000 from NOK 205 036 000 to NOK 54 436 000 4791 Rescue helicopter service Add User-ID Succeeded Revenue is increased by: 45,000,000 from NOK 774 747 000 to NOK 819 747 000 4800 Ministry of Oil and Energy 2 Miscellaneous income, by [[New]] 1,300,000 5310 State Loan Fund for Education 4 Reimbursement of ODA-approved expenditure, increased by: 2,570 000 from NOK 18 530000 to NOK 21 100000 29 Appointment fee shall be reduced by: 6,700,000 from NOK 16 892,000 to NOK 10 192 000 89 Pure fees shall be increased by: 5,024,000 from NOK 105,016 000 to NOK 110,040000 90 Reduced loans and interest payable are increased by: 253,759,000 from NOK 10 776 474 000 to NOK 11 030 233 000 93 Conversion of training loans into scholarships shall be increased by: 48 097 000 from NOK 6 999 551 000 to NOK 7047 648 000 5325 Innovation Norway 50 Return from a nationwide innovation scheme is increased by: 690000 from NOK 15000000 to NOK 21 900 000 85 The repayment of depreciated loans from seed capital funds shall be granted by: [[New]] 600 000 91 Returned capital, seed funds, is increased by: 8,200,000 from NOK 10000000 to NOK 18 200000 5329 Export Credit Scheme 71 Refunds from Export Credit Norway AS are granted by: [[New]] 22,000,000 5341 Deductions on outstanding receivables 98 Deductions on own-account government bonds are reduced by: 4,000,000 from NOK 8000000 to NOK 4000000 5351 Transfer from Norway’s Bank 85 Transfer, increased by 2 798 300000 from NOK 12000000 to NOK 14 798 300000 5440 Direct economic involvement of the country in the petroleum industry 24 Operating result: 1 Revenue 159 200,000 2 Operating costs -27 400,000,000 3 Expenses of exploration and field development -2 100000 000 4 Depreciation -20 200 000 000 5 Interest on the capital of the country -2 900 000 000 Sum: 106 600000000 30 Depreciation reduced by: 1 900 000 000 from NOK 22 10000000 to NOK 20 20 20000000 5490 NVE Facility Add User-ID Succeeded Sale of equipment, etc. , increased by: 1 400000 from NOK 100000 to NOK 1500000 5491 Depreciation of the capital of the State in the course of its business operations 30 Depreciation is increased by: 350000 from NOK 1574 406 000 to NOK 1577 906 000 5521 Value added tax 70 Value added tax, reduced by: 18,000,000 from NOK 31000000 to NOK 309 982000000 5526 Charge on alcohol 70 Charges on alcohol are reduced by: 500000 from NOK 14 200000000 to NOK 14 199 500000 5536 Fee on motor vehicles, etc. 71 One-off fee shall be increased by: 116,000,000 from NOK 14 641 000 to NOK 14 757 000 5541 Tax on electricity 70 Tax on electricity is reduced by: 10000000 from NOK 11 010000000 to NOK 11000000 5570 Sectoral charges under the Ministry of Local Government and Modernisation 70 Sectoral charges National communication authority is reduced by: 3,900,000 from NOK 243 400000 to NOK 239 500000 5574 Sectoral charges under the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries 74 Fisheries research fee shall be increased by: 24000000 from NOK 236 496 000 to NOK 260 496 000 5578 Sectoral Fees under the Ministry of Climate and Environment 72 Fish fees shall be increased by: 1000000 from NOK 19000000 to NOK 20000000 5603 Interest on the capital of the State in the course of its business operations 80 Interest on fixed capital of the country shall be reduced by: 100000 from NOK 93 507 000 to NOK 93 407 000 5607 Interest of the housing loan scheme in the State pension fund 80 Interest is increased by: 85,000,000 from NOK 963000000 to NOK 1048000000 5611 NSB AS shares 85 Dividends are increased by: 8,000,000 from NOK 225000000 to NOK 233000000 5617 Interest of the State Loan Fund for Education 80 Interest is reduced by: 5,747,000 from NOK 4,857,196 000 to NOK 4,851,449 000 5622 Shares in Avinor AS 85 Dividends are increased by: 72 400000 from NOK 512 500000 to NOK 584 900 000 5625 Interest and dividends from Innovation Norway 81 The interest margin, the innovation loan scheme, is increased by: 4500000 from NOK 20000000 to NOK 24 500000 85 Dividends, the Low Risk Loan Facility, are increased by: 27,700,000 from NOK 125000000 to NOK 152 700 000 88 Return of dividends from seed capital funds granted by: [[New]] 3,000,000 5631 Shares in AS Vinmonopolet 85 The State’s surplus share is increased by: 87 100000 from NOK 41 200000 to NOK 128 300000 86 Dividends are increased by: 3000 from NOK 2000 to NOK 5000 5652 Landskog SF - interest and dividends 85 Dividends are increased by: 55 250000 from NOK 24 750000 to NOK 80000000 5656 Shares in the administration of the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries 85 Dividends are increased by: 1,362,100,000 from NOK 21 635 500000 to NOK 22 997 600 000 5680 Statnett SF 85 Dividends are increased by: 41,000,000 from NOK 443000000 to NOK 484000000 5685 Equinor ASA shares 85 Dividends are increased by: 2,850,000 from NOK 16 620000 to NOK 19 470000000 5692 Dividends of the capital of the State in the Nordic Investment Bank 85 Dividends are reduced by: 28 900 000 from NOK 112,700000 to NOK 83,800000 5700 Revenue of the public sector 71 Social security contributions are reduced by: 5000000 from NOK 150 681 000 to NOK 150 676 000 5701 Miscellaneous income 71 Reimbursement in the event of occupational injury shall be reduced by: 165 500000 from NOK 940000 to NOK 774 500000 86 Recovery of errors, increased by: 55,000,000 from NOK 1150000000 to NOK 1205000000 87 Miscellaneous income is reduced by: 7,750,000 from NOK 26 950000 to NOK 19 200000 88 Assistive Technology Centres, etc. , increased by: 5000000 from NOK 63000000 to NOK 68000000 5704 State guarantee for claims for wages and salaries in the event of bankruptcy 70 Dividends are reduced by: 30,000,000 from NOK 230000000 to NOK 200000000 5705 Reimbursement of daily allowances 70 Reimbursement of daily allowances, State guarantee in the event of bankruptcy, shall be reduced by: 13,000,000 from NOK 26000000 to NOK 13000000 71 Reimbursement of daily allowances for frontier workers, etc. resided in Norway, reduced by 500000 from NOK 800000 to NOK 300000 ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e37038	There is a vote on proposal No. 27, from the Green Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to explain any impact on the security situation and urban development projects resulting from allied reception plans on Andøya and Bodø, and to present them to the Stortinget in the context of the State budget 2020’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e37053	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 23–26, from the Central Party. Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The State budget for 2019 is amended as follows: Cape. Post Subject matter Krona 20 Office of the Prime Minister Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 3,000,000 from NOK 121 200000 to NOK 118 200000 21 Government Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 2,700,000 from NOK 190 200000 to NOK 187 500000 41 Size Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 9 800000 from NOK 956 500000 to NOK 946 700000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, reduced by: 10000000 from NOK 412 800000 to NOK 402 800000 44 Size control committee for intelligence, surveillance and security services Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 2,200,000 from NOK 22 200000 to NOK 20000000 51 National audit Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 16 800000 from NOK 537 700000 to NOK 520 900 000 61 Supreme Court Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 1 600 000 from NOK 112 195 000 to NOK 113 795000 100 Ministry of Foreign Affairs Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 41 400000 from NOK 264 824 000 to NOK 223 424 000 103 Representation of the Government Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 750000 from NOK 49 043 000 to NOK 41 543 000 104 Official travels abroad of the royal family Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 3,000,000 from NOK 9 991000 to NOK 12 991000 116 International organisations 70 Compulsory contributions shall be reduced by: 65 000 000 from NOK 1605 201,000 to NOK 1 540 201000 117 The EEA Financial Mechanisms 77 The EEA Financial Mechanism 2014-2021 may be transferred, reduced by: 577,000,000 from NOK 1559000000 to NOK 982000000 78 The Norwegian Financial Mechanism 2014-2021 may be transferred, reduced by: 590,000 from NOK 1,218000000 to NOK 6280000000 118 Foreign policy bets 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, may be used under items 70, 71, 72 and 73, increased by: 2000000 from NOK 85 532 000 to NOK 87 532 000 74 Research, dialogue and human rights, etc. , is reduced by: 2000000 from NOK 45 583 000 to NOK 43 583 000 140 Ministry of Foreign Affairs Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 29 694 000 from NOK 1573 979 000 to NOK 1544 285 000 141 Directorate for Development Cooperation [[Northern]] Operating costs are reduced by: 4,400,000 from NOK 279 377 000 to NOK 274 977 000 144 Norwegian Exchange Cooperation Centre [[Norec]] Operating costs are reduced by: 1,300,000 from NOK 53 449 000 to NOK 52 149 000 70 Exchange arrangements may be transferred, reduced by: 57,000,000 from NOK 142000000 to NOK 85000000 151 Peace, security and global cooperation 71 Global security issues and disarmament may be transmitted, reduced by: 532,000 from NOK 282 700000 to NOK 282 168 000 73 United Nations and global challenges, can be transmitted, reduced by: 8,800,000 from NOK 292 300000 to NOK 283 500000 152 Human rights 70 Human rights, can be transferred, increased by: 1000000 from NOK 535 157 000 to NOK 536 157 000 159 Regional appropriations 71 Europe and Central Asia can be transferred, reduced by: 4,031,000 from NOK 675 674 000 to NOK 671 643 000 72 Afghanistan, may be transferred, reduced by: 24000000 from NOK 574 500000 to NOK 550 500000 75 Africa, may be transferred, reduced by: 20,000,000 from NOK 1015 584 000 to NOK 995 584 000 77 Latin America, may be transferred, reduced by: 350000 from NOK 130 350000 to NOK 126 850000 161 Education, research and professional cooperation 70 Education, may be transferred, reduced by: 40 960,000 from NOK 2764 456 000 to NOK 2723 496 000 72 The knowledge bank and technical cooperation may be transferred, increased by: 2000000 from NOK 861 714 000 to NOK 863 714 000 162 Enterprise development, agriculture and renewable energy 70 Enterprise development and trade may be carried over, reduced by: 75,000,000 from NOK 621 700000 to NOK 546 700000 71 Food security and agriculture can be transferred, reduced by: 11,000,000 from NOK 1091 966 000 to NOK 1080 966 000 75 NORFUND - loss disposal, increased by: 75,000,000 from NOK 468 750000 to NOK 543 750000 163 Climate, Environment and the Sea 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, increased by: 22 750 000 from NOK 37 900 000 to NOK 60 650000 164 Equivalence 70 Equality may be transferred, increased by: 44,000,000 from NOK 372 219 000 to NOK 416 219 000 170 Civil society 70 Civil society, can be transferred, increased by: 20,000,000 from NOK 2 128 471 000 to NOK 2 148 471 000 171 UN Development Work 72 Other grants [[FN]] 500000 from NOK 1996 700000 to NOK 196 200000 179 Refugee measures in Norway 21 Special operating costs are increased by: 112 267,000 from NOK 550,062 000 to NOK 662,329000 200 Ministry of Knowledge Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 8,211,000 from NOK 382 440000 to NOK 374 229 000 201 Analysis and knowledge base 21 Special operating costs are increased by: 1 185000 from NOK 40 671000 to NOK 41 856 000 220 Directorate of Education Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 19,000,000 from NOK 380 591 000 to NOK 361 591 000 70 Supplements to educational material, etc. , may be transferred, may be used under item 21, increased by: 20,000,000 from NOK 68 705000 to NOK 88 705000 225 Basic training measures 64 Contributions to the training of children and young people seeking residence in Norway are increased by: 17 201,000 from NOK 52 991000 to NOK 70 192 000 68 Subsidies for training in criminal services are increased by: 3,828,000 from NOK 294,663 000 to NOK 298,491000 74 Project grants shall be reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 10 195 000 to NOK 9 195 000 226 Quality development of initial training 21 Special operating costs may be transferred, reduced by: 15,000,000 from NOK 1 177 918 000 to NOK 1 162 918 000 61 Subsidy regime Mentoring for new teachers is increased by: 5000000 from NOK 60000000 to NOK 65000000 71 Grants to knowledge centres shall be increased by: 6,700,000 from NOK 67,075000 to NOK 73,775000 228 Grants to independent schools, etc. 77 The German school in Oslo, the estimate, is increased by 3,000,000 from NOK 24 615000 to NOK 27 615000 230 State Special Educational Support System Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 3,000,000 from NOK 714 323,000 to NOK 717 323 000 231 Kindergartens 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, may be used under item 51, reduced by: 3185000 from NOK 457,516,000 to NOK 454,331000 240 Vocational schools 60 Grants to post-secondary schools are increased by: 17 700 000 from NOK 725 350000 to NOK 743 050000 241 Joint actions for the vocational education sector 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, increased by: 12 568 000 from NOK 17 031 000 to NOK 29 599 000 70 Other transfers, may be used under item 21, reduced by: 12 568 000 from NOK 12 568 000 to NOK 0 251 22 July Centre 1 Operating costs, granted by: [[New]] 700000 252 EU education and youth programme 70 Grants shall be reduced by: 13 757,000 from NOK 656 136 000 to NOK 642 379 000 253 Higher Education Colleges 70 Grants to higher education institutions shall be increased by: 5000000 from NOK 898 926 000 to NOK 903 926 000 255 Contribution to Peace and Human Rights Centres 71 The Fallstown Centre shall be increased by: 1 700 000 from NOK 21 496 000 to NOK 23 196,000 256 Competence Norway Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 1 100000 from NOK 64 258 000 to NOK 63 158 000 258 Measures for lifelong learning 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, may be used under item 1, increased by: 880,000 from NOK 214 844 000 to NOK 223 724 000 260 Universities and higher education institutions 50 State universities and higher education institutions are increased by: 88 873 000 from NOK 35 632 559 000 to NOK 35 721 432 000 70 Private higher education institutions are increased by: 9000000 from NOK 1578 967 000 to NOK 1587 967 000 270 International mobility and social purposes for students 75 Grants for the construction of student housing may be transferred, reduced by: 298 466 000 from NOK 662,779 000 to NOK 364,313 000 280 Common Units 50 The Directorate for Internationalisation and Quality Development in Higher Education shall be increased by: 16 100000 from NOK 450 293 000 to NOK 466 393 000 51 UNIT - Directorate for ICT and Joint Services in Higher Education and Research will be increased by: 19 900 000 from NOK 157 654 000 to NOK 177 554 000 281 Joint actions for universities and higher education Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be used under heading 70, increased by: 7000000 from NOK 195 742 000 to NOK 202,742 000 50 Grants to the Norwegian Research Council are reduced by: 5000000 from NOK 234 107 000 to NOK 229 107 000 285 Norwegian Research Council 52 Long-term basic research is reduced by: 25,000,000 from NOK 1699 644 000 to NOK 1674 644 000 55 Business costs are reduced by: 23 500000 from NOK 792 543 000 to NOK 769 043 000 287 Research institutes and other activities 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, may be used under item 71, reduced by: 400000 from NOK 6845000 to NOK 645000 288 International cooperation actions 72 International basic research organisations are increased by: 13 551 000 from NOK 286 405000 to NOK 299,956000 73 The EU Framework Programme for Research and Innovation may be transferred, increased by: 134 082,000 from NOK 2 240 253 000 to NOK 2 374 335000 75 UNESCO quota shall be reduced by: 2 146 000 from NOK 22 793 000 to NOK 20 647 000 290 Directorate for Integration and Diversity Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 5,139,000 from NOK 264 480000 to NOK 259 341000 291 Residence of refugees and measures for immigrants 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, increased by: 7 600 000 from NOK 53 815000 to NOK 61 415000 60 Integration grants, may be transferred, increased by: 85 600 000 from NOK 8 983 088 000 to NOK 9 068 688 000 61 Specific grant for the settlement of lone minor refugees, the estimate is increased by: 2,400,000 from NOK 2 283 887 000 to NOK 2 286 287 000 62 Municipal migration measures are reduced by: 8,630,000 from NOK 269 652,000 to NOK 261 022 000 71 Grants to migrant organisations and other voluntary activities are reduced by: 1,300,000 from NOK 134 953 000 to NOK 133 653 000 73 Grants shall be increased by: 400000 from NOK 14 641000 to NOK 15 041000 292 Norwegian and community education for adult immigrants 60 Grants for training in Norwegian and social skills for adult immigrants are increased by: 18 700 000 from NOK 1425 376 000 to NOK 1444 076 000 300 Ministry of Culture Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 5,070,000 from NOK 170 252 000 to NOK 165 182 000 315 Voluntary objectives 21 Research, investigation and special operating costs may be transferred, increased by: 5000000 from NOK 6 130 000 to NOK 11 130 000 79 At its disposal, shall be reduced by: 2500000 from NOK 10 340000 to NOK 7 840000 82 VAT compensation for the construction of sports facilities is increased by: 105 000 000 from NOK 189 400000 to NOK 294 400000 320 Norwegian Cultural Council Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 5000000 from NOK 183,116 000 to NOK 178,116 000 322 Building and public spaces Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 2,300,000 from NOK 23 147 000 to NOK 20 847,000 325 General cultural purposes 21 Research, investigation and specific operational expenditure may be carried over, reduced by: 3,000,000 from NOK 28 920000 to NOK 25 920000 71 Culture as a industry is reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 62 985000 to NOK 61 985000 75 EU Culture and Audiovisual Programme, etc. , may be transmitted, reduced by: 10000000 from NOK 40000000 to NOK 30000000 79 At the disposal, under item 1, may be reduced by: 1500000 from NOK 730000 to NOK 630000 326 Language, literature and library purposes Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 100000 from NOK 641 287 000 to NOK 641 187 000 73 Language organisations shall be increased by: 1,300,000 from NOK 26 790 000 to NOK 28 090 000 328 Museum and visual art 70 The national museum network shall be increased by: 15,000,000 from NOK 1747 630000 to NOK 1762 630000 78 Various fixed measures are increased by: 350000 from NOK 116,785000 to NOK 120,285000 334 Film uses, etc. Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 1,550 000 from NOK 112,055000 to NOK 113,605000 50 The Film Fund shall be reduced by: 1,550 000 from NOK 520 160000 to NOK 518 610000 335 Media purpose 71 Production grants are increased by: 10000000 from NOK 318000000 to NOK 328000000 339 Gambling, lotteries and foundations Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 800000 from NOK 78 857,000 to NOK 78 057 000 352 Impairment of functionality 21 Special operating costs may be used under item 71, reduced by: 330,000 from NOK 15 060 000 to NOK 14 730000 400 Ministry of Justice and Defence Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 7,300,000 from NOK 468 178 000 to NOK 460 878 000 23 Special operational expenditure, research, evaluation and knowledge acquisition may be transferred, increased by: 1000000 from NOK 30 280 000 to NOK 31 280 000 70 Transfers to private individuals are increased by: 1,300,000 from NOK 10 206 000 to NOK 11 506 000 410 Courts of Justice Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 78 300000 from NOK 2 540 629 000 to NOK 2 618 929 000 21 Special operating costs are increased by: 10000000 from NOK 71 935000 to NOK 81 935000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Protective matters/side costs, land change courts, may be transferred, reduced by: 3,862,000 from NOK 6 735 000 to NOK 2 873 000 430 Crime prevention services Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 1 011,000 from NOK 4559 896 000 to NOK 4558 885 000 440 Police Directorate - the Police and Len’s Seat Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 156 663,000 from NOK 18 016 648 000 to NOK 18 173 311000 21 Special operating costs are reduced by: 25 920,000 from NOK 139 507 000 to NOK 113 587 000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Search for marine casualties, in lakes and watercourses, may be transmitted, increased by: 2811,000 from NOK 9 189 000 to NOK 12000000 25 Return of asylum-seekers with refusals and other non-residents without a legal stay, estimates, is reduced by: 25 418 000 from NOK 128 533 000 to NOK 103 115 000 70 Grants shall be reduced by: 2000000 from NOK 72 383 000 to NOK 70 383 000 444 Police security service [[PST]] Operating costs are increased by: 172,000,000 from NOK 890 983 000 to NOK 1 062 983 000 445 Higher Public Prosecutor's Office Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 120000 from NOK 262 057 000 to NOK 263 307 000 451 Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be used under cap. 456 entry 1 is increased by: 61 517 000 from NOK 760 355000 to NOK 821 872 000 453 Civil Clearing Authority Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 1 400000 from NOK 31 927 000 to NOK 33 327 000 454 Rescue helicopter service Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 45,000,000 from NOK 690 652,000 to NOK 735 652 000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, reduced by: 441 769 000 from NOK 3,094,510000 to NOK 2,652,741000 455 Rescue services Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 1 100000 from NOK 109 258 000 to NOK 110 358 000 456 Emergency and emergency communication services Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be used under cap. 451 entry 1 is increased by: 15 600 000 from NOK 128 755000 to NOK 144 355000 21 Special operational expenditure — infrastructure Emergency networks, reduced by: 18 500000 from NOK 366,017,000 to NOK 347,517,000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, increased by: 103,000,000 from NOK 35 176 000 to NOK 138 176 000 457 National safety authority Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 1 600 000 from NOK 316 418 000 to NOK 314 818 000 460 Special Unit for Police Affairs Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 1 400000 from NOK 47 451000 to NOK 48 851000 466 Special expenditure on criminal matters, etc. Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 97 736 000 from NOK 1 183 838 000 to NOK 1086 102000 467 Norwegian Lovtidend Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 639 000 from NOK 4 340000 to NOK 4 979000 469 Vertegration scheme Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 10,200,000 from NOK 252,675000 to NOK 262,875000 471 State liability and compensation scheme of the Storting 73 The capital allowance scheme shall be reduced by: 3,000,000 from NOK 25 713,000 to NOK 22 713 000 473 Civil law administration of the State 70 Compensation for victims of violence, allocation of an estimate, shall be increased by: 50,000,000 from NOK 300000 to NOK 350000000 475 Out-of-court settlement services Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 23 415 000 from NOK 104,851,000 to NOK 128,266,000 480 Svalbard budget 50 Grants shall be increased by: 6000000 from NOK 360 484 000 to NOK 366 484 000 490 Directorate for Foreign Affairs Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 22 900 000 from NOK 1034 196,000 to NOK 1011 296 000 21 Special operating expenditure, asylum receipts, is increased by: 159 713,000 from NOK 520 513,000 to NOK 680 226 000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Special operating costs, interpretation and translation, are reduced by: 1,296 000 from NOK 14 896 000 to NOK 13 600 000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, reduced by: 12,000,000 from NOK 53 201000 to NOK 41 201000 60 Grants to host municipalities for asylum recipients shall be increased by: 45 372 000 from NOK 138 354 000 to NOK 183 726 000 70 Social benefits for residents in reception of asylum are increased by: 27 681,000 from NOK 75 378 000 to NOK 103 059 000 72 International migration work, and assisted return and reintegration in the home country, estimates are reduced by: 9 115,000 from NOK 72 069 000 to NOK 62 954000 73 Protection for refugees outside Norway, etc., support measures, may be used under Chapter. 291, entry 60, is increased by 9 149 000 from NOK 11 917,000 to NOK 21 066 000 75 Travel costs for refugees to and from abroad may be carried over, increased by: 9,141,000 from NOK 11 337,000 to NOK 20 478 000 491 Foreigner’s Office Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be used under item 21, reduced by: 22 800000 from NOK 293 582 000 to NOK 270 782 000 21 Special operating costs, including treatment, may be used under item 1 increased by: 4,000,000 from NOK 6 370000 to NOK 10 370000 500 Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 4,930,000 from NOK 408 01000 to NOK 403 071000 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, may be used under heading 70, reduced by: 2500000 from NOK 82 388 000 to NOK 79 888 000 23 Rent of common land, etc. , is reduced by: 2,800,000 from NOK 24 664 000 to NOK 21 864 000 510 Ministry Security and Service Organisation Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 1250000 from NOK 625 417 000 to NOK 612 917 000 23 22 July to be reduced by: 700000 from NOK 12 260000 to NOK 11 560000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, increased by: 2,800,000 from NOK 49 869 000 to NOK 52 669 000 525 The County Departments Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 38,000,000 from NOK 1888 042 000 to NOK 1850 042 000 530 Construction projects outside the housing arrangement 33 The continuation of construction projects may be transferred, increased by: 230 000 000 from NOK 1780 400000 to NOK 2 010 400000 36 Artistic decoration, may be transferred, reduced by: 9000000 from NOK 19000000 to NOK 10000000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, increased by: 62000000 from NOK 563000000 to NOK 625000 533 Non-residential property Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 1,450,000 from NOK 20,686 000 to NOK 22 136 000 540 Directorate for Management and ICT Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 3,370,000 from NOK 291 044 000 to NOK 287 674 000 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, increased by: 500000 from NOK 24 436 000 to NOK 24 936 000 541 IT policy This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The development, implementation and coordination of IT policies, can be transferred, can be used under heading 70, reduced by: 500000 from NOK 21 029 000 to NOK 20 529 000 543 National communication authority Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 9 900 000 from NOK 224 600 000 to NOK 214 700000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, increased by: 6000000 from NOK 16 400000 to NOK 22 400000 71 Broadband extension, may be transmitted, increased by: 50,000,000 from NOK 199 750000 to NOK 249 750000 545 The Data Protection Authority Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 1500000 from NOK 57 672000 to NOK 56 172 000 553 Convertible regions 63 Border Regional Interreg programme, can be used under headings 60 and 65, reduced by: 5000000 from NOK 52 736 000 to NOK 47 736 000 560 Sámi 50 Sami languages, culture and social life are increased by: 13,000,000 from NOK 497 069 000 to NOK 510 069 000 571 Framework grants to municipalities 21 Special operating costs may be transferred, reduced by: 13 200000 from NOK 33 639 000 to NOK 20 439 000 60 Intrinsic subsidies are increased by: 432 390,000 from NOK 131 519 299 000 to NOK 131 951 689 000 572 Framework grant to county municipalities 60 Intrinsic subsidies are increased by: 63,000,000 from NOK 33 563 319 000 to NOK 33 626 319 000 578 Election Directorate Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 7000000 from NOK 107,745000 to NOK 100,745000 581 Dwelling and housing measures 70 Housing aid, estimates, is reduced by: 22 800000 from NOK 3 102 591 000 to NOK 3079 791000 71 Dwellings in the districts, granted by [[New]] 10000000 75 Establishment and adaptation of dwellings are increased by: 110,000,000 from NOK 481 574 000 to NOK 591 574 000 76 Rentals, may be transferred, reduced by: 252 162,000 from NOK 710 464 000 to NOK 458 302 000 587 Directorate for Building Quality Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 105 974 000 to NOK 104 974 000 595 Staten Kartsverk Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be used under items 21 and 45, reduced by: 104,000,000 from NOK 899 021 000 to NOK 795 021 000 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, may be used under items 1 and 45, increased by: 140 500000 from NOK 217 920000 to NOK 358 420000 600 Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 2 100000 from NOK 215,613,000 to NOK 213,513,000 601 Exploration, research and related activities 21 Special operating costs are reduced by: 2,700,000 from NOK 55 100000 to NOK 52 400000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Knowledge development IA agreement, etc. , may be transmitted, reduced by: 53,000,000 from NOK 81000000 to NOK 28000000 50 The Norwegian Research Council is reduced by: 840000 from NOK 166 730000 to NOK 158 330000 70 Grants shall be reduced by: 11,000,000 from NOK 36 730000 to NOK 25 730000 71 Contributions to sectoral programmes of the IA Agreement, etc. , by: [[New]] 53,000,000 605 The seat of employment and welfare Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 14 940,000 from NOK 11 681 785000 to NOK 11 696 725000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Research and investigation activities are reduced by: 2,700,000 from NOK 57 185000 to NOK 54 485000 611 Pensions of state funds Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs, estimates, are reduced by: 1500000 from NOK 17 500000 to NOK 16000000 612 Grants to State pension fund Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs, estimates, are increased by: 717,000,000 from NOK 4253000000 to NOK 4970000000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Final settlement, allocation of estimates, is increased by: 200000000 from NOK -1 849000000 to NOK -1 649000000 70 For other members of the State pension fund, the estimate is increased by: 15,000,000 from NOK 161000000 to NOK 176000000 613 Employer’s fee for social security 70 For other members of the State pension fund, the estimate is reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 24000000 to NOK 23000000 614 Housing loan scheme of the State pension fund Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 5000000 from NOK 27000000 to NOK 32000000 90 Loans, estimates, are increased by: 4,200,000,000 from NOK 5 900000000 to NOK 10 10000000 634 Labour market measures 76 Measures for job seekers may be transferred, reduced by: 15,000,000 from NOK 7 110 545000 to NOK 7095 545000 77 Permanently organised work may be transferred, increased by: 21 800000 from NOK 1503 905000 to NOK 1525 705 000 640 Labour Inspectorate Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 13 400000 from NOK 684 500000 to NOK 697 900 000 642 Petroleum control Add User-ID Succeeded Operating expenditure, may be used under item 21, increased by: 1,300,000 from NOK 284 500000 to NOK 285 800000 660 War Pension 70 Grants, military, allocation of estimates, are reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 59000000 to NOK 58000000 71 Grants, civil, estimates, are increased by: 1000000 from NOK 159000000 to NOK 160000000 664 Seafarer pension scheme 70 Grants shall be increased by: 2000000 from NOK 37000000 to NOK 39000000 666 Retirement contract [[AFP]] Grants, estimate appropriations, are reduced by: 10000000 from NOK 2490000000 to NOK 2480000000 667 Supplementary social benefits for persons over 67 years of age 70 Grants, estimate appropriations, are reduced by: 15,000,000 from NOK 3450000000 to NOK 330000000 700 Ministry of Health and Welfare Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 850000 from NOK 240 961000 to NOK 232 461000 701 E-health, health records, etc. 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, increased by: 750000 from NOK 468 181,000 to NOK 475 681 000 70 Norwegian Health Net SF, reduced by 1 400000 from NOK 140 526 000 to NOK 139 126 000 704 The Health Archive 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, increased by: 3,000,000 from NOK 46000000 to NOK 49000000 709 Patient and User Ombudsmen Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 2000000 from NOK 74 021 000 to NOK 72 021 000 710 Vaccines, etc. 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, increased by: 12 200000 from NOK 336 375000 to NOK 348 575000 714 Public health 60 Municipal actions, may be transferred, can be used under item 21, reduced by: 2,600,000 from NOK 93,013,000 to NOK 90,413,000 732 Regional health establishments 21 Special operating costs may be transferred, reduced by: 2500000 from NOK 59 710000 to NOK 57 210000 70 Specific grants, may be carried over, may be used under headings 72, 73, 74 and 75, increased by: 20,000,000 from NOK 874 059 000 to NOK 894 059 000 72 Basic appropriations Health south-east RHF, may be carried over, increased by: 647,000,000 from NOK 53 571 938 000 to NOK 54 218 938 000 73 Basic appropriations Health West RHF, may be carried over, increased by: 227,000,000 from NOK 18 781 421,000 to NOK 19 008 421000 74 Basic appropriations Health Middle Norway RHF, may be carried over, increased by: 172,000,000 from NOK 14 270 445000 to NOK 14 442 445000 75 Basic appropriations Health Nord RHF, may be carried over, increased by: 154,000,000 from NOK 12 726 632,000 to NOK 12 880 632,000 76 Intervention-driven financing, estimates, is increased by: 2500000 from NOK 37 843 728,000 to NOK 37 846 228 000 77 Laboratory and radiological studies, estimates, are reduced by: 111 500000 from NOK 3 119 112000 to NOK 3 007 612000 86 Operating credits shall be reduced by: 1,250,000,000 from NOK 3359000000 to NOK 2 159000000 740 Directorate for Health Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 500000 from NOK 1,212,918,000 to NOK 1,218,418 000 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, increased by: 5000000 from NOK 30 421000 to NOK 35 421000 70 Health services in other EEA countries are reduced by: 10000000 from NOK 50 305000 to NOK 40 305000 744 Directorate for eHealth Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 18 800000 from NOK 213 594 000 to NOK 232 394 000 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, increased by: 20,000,000 from NOK 150 992,000 to NOK 170 992,000 745 Public health institute Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 600 000 from NOK 1.044 831000 to NOK 1.045 431000 746 National Agency for Medicinal Products Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 5,083,000 from NOK 288 252,000 to NOK 293 335000 747 Directorate for Radiation Protection and Nuclear Safety Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 520000 from NOK 94 236 000 to NOK 99 486 000 21 Special operating costs may be transferred, reduced by: 3,200,000 from NOK 18 432 000 to NOK 15 232 000 748 National Health Supervisors Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 500000 from NOK 159 164 000 to NOK 153 664 000 761 Nursing services 61 Host municipalities increased by: 24000000 from NOK 934 778 000 to NOK 958 778 000 62 Daily activity offers, can be transferred, reduced by: 15,000,000 from NOK 347 998 000 to NOK 332 998 000 63 Investment grants – rehabilitation, can be transferred, can be used under heading 69, increased by: 39,825,000 from NOK 4 213 357 000 to NOK 4 253 182 000 65 Trials of state funding of care services, estimates, are reduced by: 136 790,000 from NOK 1 482 840000 to NOK 1 346 050000 69 Investment grants – net growth, may be transferred, increased by: 39 200000 from NOK 65 400000 to NOK 104 600 000 73 Special care needs are increased by: 30,000,000 from NOK 24 375 000 to NOK 54 375 000 762 Primary Health Service 21 Special operating costs may be used under heading 70, reduced by: 640000 from NOK 121 688 000 to NOK 115 288 000 61 Prison health services are increased by: 283,000 from NOK 178 866 000 to NOK 179 149 000 765 Psychiatric and drug services 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, may be used under item 72, increased by: 10 600 000 from NOK 108 523 000 to NOK 119 123 000 75 Violence and traumatic stress can be transmitted, reduced by: 3,600,000 from NOK 220 039 000 to NOK 216 439 000 769 Exploration, etc. 21 Special operating costs may be used under heading 70, reduced by: 1500000 from NOK 14 971 000 to NOK 13 471 000 800 Ministry for Children and Family Affairs Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 3,200,000 from NOK 149 257 000 to NOK 146 057 000 844 Cash support 70 Grants, estimate appropriations, are reduced by: 190 890,000 from NOK 1800 890 000 to NOK 1610000000 845 Child-rescue 70 Grants, estimate appropriations, are reduced by: 82,000,000 from NOK 15 872000000 to NOK 15 790000000 846 Family and growth measures 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, may be used under item 61 and item 71, increased by: 5,400,000 from NOK 12 650000 to NOK 18 050000 50 The Norwegian Research Council may be used under heading 21 by: 500000 from NOK 3218 000 to NOK 2718 000 61 National grant scheme against child poverty can be used under item 71, reduced by: 4500000 from NOK 311 985000 to NOK 307 485000 847 EU Youth Programme Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be carried over, reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 8431000 to NOK 7431000 853 Children's protection and social affairs students Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 5000000 from NOK 230 440000 to NOK 225 440000 854 Measures in the field of child protection 21 Special operating costs may be used under item 71, increased by: 14 900 000 from NOK 72 371000 to NOK 87 271000 50 Research and development are reduced by: 4,000,000 from NOK 17 631000 to NOK 13 631000 61 Developments in municipalities are reduced by: 2000000 from NOK 50 671000 to NOK 48 671000 71 Development and information, etc. , may be used under heading 21, increased by: 4 100000 from NOK 36 058 000 to NOK 40 158 000 855 State administration of child protection Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be used under item 22 and item 60, increased by: 265 400000 from NOK 3841 242 000 to NOK 4 106 642 000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Purchases of private child protection services may be used under item 1, increased by: 44 900 000 from NOK 2623 089 000 to NOK 2667 989 000 60 Reimbursement of municipal expenditure on child protection measures under item 1 may be reduced by: 64 000 000 from NOK 426 801000 to NOK 362 801000 856 Childcare centre for lone minor asylum seekers Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 15,000,000 from NOK 156 429 000 to NOK 141 429 000 858 Directorate for Children, Youth and Family Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be used under cap. 855, entry 1 is reduced by 9000000 from NOK 280,076 000 to NOK 271,076 000 860 Consumer Council 50 Basic appropriations shall be reduced by: 2000000 from NOK 134 924 000 to NOK 132 924 000 865 Consumer policy measures 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, may be used under item 50, reduced by: 180 000 from NOK 2 244 000 to NOK 2 064 000 70 Grants, may be used under item 21, increased by: 280 000 from NOK 1453 000 to NOK 1733 000 79 The EU framework programme for consumer policy may be transferred, reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 6 312 000 to NOK 5 312 000 867 Secretariat of the Market Council and Consumer Complaints Committee Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 200000 from NOK 14 122 000 to NOK 13 922 000 868 Consumer supervision Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 100000 from NOK 33 485000 to NOK 33 585000 882 Cemeteries and cemeteries 61 Grants for peaceful and protective church buildings may be transferred, granted by: [[New]] 20,000,000 900 Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 640000 from NOK 429 746 000 to NOK 423 346 000 21 Special operating costs may be transferred, reduced by: 7,800,000 from NOK 61 927,000 to NOK 54 127 000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Safe management of Norwegian nuclear waste and installations, can be transferred, can be used under cover. 929, entry 51, is increased by 27 900 000 from NOK 70000000 to NOK 97 900 000 75 Grants to specific projects may be transferred, reduced by: 1500000 from NOK 8,045000 to NOK 6,545000 902 Adjusters Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 600 000 from NOK 120,725000 to NOK 120,125 000 904 The Brønn Island Registers Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 20,000,000 from NOK 328 430000 to NOK 348 430000 909 Measures for employment of seafarers 73 Allowances for employment of seafarers, estimates, are increased by: 36,700,000 from NOK 1785000000 to NOK 1821 700000 910 Directorate for Maritime Affairs Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 2 100000 from NOK 420 750000 to NOK 418 650000 911 Supervision of competition Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 1500000 from NOK 110 450000 to NOK 111 950000 912 General Secretariat for Complaints Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 1 194,000 from NOK 19 550000 to NOK 20 744000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The subject of competition shall be increased by: 5,800,000 from NOK 247 000 to NOK 8 257 000 915 Council of Rules Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 3,000,000 from NOK 11000000 to NOK 8000000 917 Directorate for Fisheries Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 3,750,000 from NOK 404 350000 to NOK 408 100000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Fisheries research and monitoring may be transferred, increased by: 19 765 000 from NOK 70 966 000 to NOK 90 731000 919 Miscellaneous fishing purposes 60 Grants to municipalities and counties are increased by: 25 146 000 from NOK 519000000 to NOK 544 146 000 76 Grants for fisheries research may be transferred, reduced by: 7000000 from NOK 15000000 to NOK 8000000 922 Space activities 70 Quota of European Space Agency [[ESA]] 4,300,000 from NOK 215 375000 to NOK 219 675000 71 International space activities are increased by: 6,700,000 from NOK 465 250000 to NOK 471 950000 73 EU space programmes are reduced by: 124 630,000 from NOK 487 300000 to NOK 362,670000 95 Equity Space Norway AS, increased by: 60,000,000 from NOK 378 500000 to NOK 438 500000 923 Marine Research Institute Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 4,000,000 from NOK 644 800000 to NOK 640 800000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Fisheries research and monitoring may be transferred, increased by: 20,000,000 from NOK 150 530000 to NOK 170 530000 924 International cooperation and development programmes 70 Grants shall be reduced by: 9 930 000 from NOK 16000000 to NOK 6070000 926 Marine Research Institute, research vessel Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 4,000,000 from NOK 184 450000 to NOK 188 450000 929 Institute of Energy Engineering This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Securing of nuclear installations may be transmitted, increased by: 20,000,000 from NOK 40000000 to NOK 60000000 51 Grants for nuclear research, may be transferred, may be used under Chapter. 900, entry 22, increased by 114,000,000 from NOK 147000000 to NOK 261000000 935 Patent-controlled Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 4500000 from NOK 258 400000 to NOK 262 900 000 950 Management of state ownership 51 Loss provision, equity contributions to Great Norwegian Spitsbergen Kulkkompani AS, are granted by: [[New]] 43,000,000 52 Risk capital, Nysnø Climate investment AS, is increased by: 35,000,000 from NOK 140000000 to NOK 175000000 71 Grants for the depreciation of equity Electronic Chart Centre AS, granted by [[New]] 20,000,000 90 Capital deposits, Nysnø Climate investment AS, are increased by: 65 000 000 from NOK 260000000 to NOK 325000000 1100 Ministry of Agriculture and Food Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 800000 from NOK 161 414 000 to NOK 160 614 000 45 Major equipment acquisitions and maintenance – ordinary administrative bodies, may be transferred, can be used under heading 50, reduced by: 2,600,000 from NOK 2 720 000 to NOK 120000 49 Purchases of real estate, by: [[New]] 2,600,000 1112 Knowledge development and preparedness, etc. in the food field 50 Knowledge development, knowledge dissemination and preparedness, the Veterinary Institute, shall be increased by: 40,000,000 from NOK 97 9776000 to NOK 137 976000 1137 Research and innovation 70 Innovation activities, etc. , may be transferred, increased by: 3,000,000 from NOK 350000 to NOK 650000 1142 Directorate for Agriculture 77 Allowances for compensation in the event of the closure of the husbandry of fur animals may be transferred, granted by: [[New]] 20,000,000 1143 Preparedness for food 70 Grain storage, by [[New]] 10000000 1148 Natural damage - claims 71 Natural damage – claims, allocation of estimates, increased by: 22 400000 from NOK 152 600 000 to NOK 175 000 1150 For the implementation of the agricultural agreement, etc. 71 Subsidies for claims, etc. , estimates are increased by: 525000 from NOK 43000000 to NOK 568000000 1300 Ministry of Transport Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 2,900,000 from NOK 185 911000 to NOK 183 011000 70 Grants to international organisations shall be reduced by: 6 100000 from NOK 27 500000 to NOK 21 400000 71 Aid for road safety purposes, etc. , increased by: 2500000 from NOK 69000000 to NOK 71 500000 1310 Air transport services 70 Purchases of domestic routes may be transferred, increased by: 20,000,000 from NOK 717 400000 to NOK 737 400000 1313 Air traffic control Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 229 900 000 to NOK 228 900 000 1320 State Road Service Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 269 300000 from NOK 4 334 900 000 to NOK 4 604 200000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Operation and maintenance of highways, may be carried over, may be used under item 29 and item 30, reduced by: 356 500000 from NOK 6 631 800000 to NOK 6275 300000 28 Traffic and vehicle supervision may be transmitted, reduced by: 110,000,000 from NOK 2 179 500000 to NOK 2 069 500000 30 National road investments may be carried over, may be used under item 22, item 29 and item 31, increased by: 730,000,000 from NOK 1255 200000 to NOK 13285 200000 73 Subsidies for reduced toll tariffs outside urban areas are increased by: 200000000 from NOK 531 400000 to NOK 731 400000 1352 Railway Directorate Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 114 700 000 from NOK 468 500000 to NOK 353 800000 71 Purchases of infrastructure services — operation and maintenance, may be carried over, may be used under item 72, item 73 and item 74, increased by: 263 500 000 from NOK 8 423 500000 to NOK 8 687 000 72 Purchases of infrastructure services — investment planning, transferability, use of item 71 and item 73 are reduced by: 511,000,000 from NOK 2 153000000 to NOK 1642000000 73 Purchases of infrastructure services – investments, transferable, can be used under items 71, 72 and 74, increased by: 101,000,000 from NOK 9 988 700000 to NOK 10 089 700000 75 Contributions to the transfer of goods from road to rail, granted by [[New]] 120,000,000 1360 Coastal works Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be used under item 45, reduced by: 4,300,000 from NOK 1715 100000 to NOK 1710 800000 30 New installations and major maintenance may be transferred, increased by: 58,000,000 from NOK 378 500000 to NOK 436 500000 34 Compensation for increased employer's tax may be transferred, reduced by: 25 200000 from NOK 25 200000 to NOK 0 72 Contributions for the transfer of goods from road to sea may be transferred, reduced by: 77 400000 from NOK 77 400000 to NOK 0 1380 National communication authority Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 2,200,000 1400 Ministry of Climate and Environment Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 720000 from NOK 291 084 000 to NOK 283 884 000 71 International organisations are reduced by: 200000 from NOK 88 053 000 to NOK 87 853 000 1410 Knowledge of the climate and the environment 21 Environmental monitoring is reduced by: 2500000 from NOK 277 297 000 to NOK 274 797 000 1412 Meteorology purposes 50 The Meteorological Institute shall be increased by: 12 900 000 from NOK 313 882,000 to NOK 326 782,000 70 International cooperation projects are reduced by: 29 898 000 from NOK 172 566 000 to NOK 142 668 000 1420 Directorate for the Environment Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 112 000 from NOK 694 287 000 to NOK 694 399 000 35 Government acquisitions, forest protection, may be transferred, reduced by: 30,000,000 from NOK 444 612000 to NOK 414 612000 61 Contributions to climate action and adaptation may be transferred, reduced by: 108 330,000 from NOK 208 230000 to NOK 99 900 000 63 Return arrangements for end-of-life recreational craft are reduced by: 10000000 from NOK 20000000 to NOK 10000000 75 Payments for wreckage and vehicle and recreational boat allowances, estimate appropriations, are reduced by: 85 992,000 from NOK 640 992,000 to NOK 555000000 76 Reimbursement schemes, estimates, are increased by: 26 536 000 from NOK 137 464 000 to NOK 164 000 78 Outdoor purposes, may be transmitted, increased by: 5000000 from NOK 179 891000 to NOK 184 891000 81 Natural and cultural heritage, may be transferred, can be used under item 21, increased by: 300000 from NOK 67,011000 to NOK 67,311000 85 Natural information centres may be transferred, increased by: 2500000 from NOK 69,031000 to NOK 71,531000 1428 Reduced greenhouse gas emissions, energy conversion, energy and climate technologies 50 Transfer to the Climate and Energy Fund shall be increased by: 50,000,000 from NOK 3164 450000 to NOK 3 214 450000 1429 Riksantikvaren Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 2 067 000 from NOK 148 540000 to NOK 146 473 000 21 Special operating costs are increased by: 3,000,000 from NOK 37 719 000 to NOK 40 719 000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Conservation tasks may be transferred, reduced by: 3,000,000 from NOK 24 708 000 to NOK 21 708 000 73 Subsidies for medieval and fire protection buildings and installations may be increased by: 1000000 from NOK 57 575 000 to NOK 58 575 000 1471 Norwegian Polar Institute Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 2,248,000 from NOK 242 376 000 to NOK 240 128 000 21 Special operating costs may be transferred, reduced by: 1 786 000 from NOK 77 243 000 to NOK 75 457 000 1473 Kings Bay AS 70 Grants shall be increased by: 1 989,000 from NOK 30 270000 to NOK 32 259000 1481 Climate allowances This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Purchases of allowances, general scheme, may be transferred, reduced by: 25,000,000 from NOK 175000000 to NOK 150000000 1600 Ministry of Finance Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 690000 from NOK 390 800000 to NOK 383 900 000 21 Special operating costs may be transferred, reduced by: 6,330,000 from NOK 90 900 000 to NOK 84 570000 1605 Directorate for Financial Management Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 37 400000 from NOK 507 200000 to NOK 544 600 000 1610 Customs duties Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 22 400000 from NOK 1522 600 000 to NOK 1545000000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, increased by: 12 200000 from NOK 90 200000 to NOK 102 400000 1618 Tax receipts Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 4,283,000 from NOK 6 062 100000 to NOK 6 057 817 000 21 Special operating costs are increased by: 10000000 from NOK 205 900000 to NOK 215 900000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Major IT projects may be transferred, reduced by: 58,000,000 from NOK 472 800000 to NOK 414 800000 23 Special operating costs, a scheme, are increased by: 3,800,000 from NOK 88 100000 to NOK 91 900 000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, reduced by: 7000000 from NOK 115000000 to NOK 108000000 70 Grants shall be increased by: 1500000 from NOK 350000 to NOK 5000000 1620 Statistical Central Bureau Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 2,400,000 from NOK 593 300000 to NOK 595 700000 1632 Compensation for VAT 61 Grants to municipalities and county councils, estimates, are increased by: 80000000 from NOK 24 600000000 to NOK 25 400000000 1633 Net scheme, State-paid VAT Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs, estimates, are increased by: 200000000 from NOK 6 600000000 to NOK 6 800000000 1651 Central government debt, repayments and redemptions 98 Deductions on domestic debt, estimated appropriations, are reduced by: 12 414,000,000 from NOK 76 515 000 to NOK 64 101 000 000 1700 Ministry of Defence Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 23,422,000 from NOK 819 030 000 to NOK 842 452 000 21 Special operating costs, may be transferred, estimated appropriations, are reduced by: 48,779,000 from NOK 128 779 000 to NOK 80 000 000 71 Transfers to others may be transferred, reduced by: 4,000,000 from NOK 66 346 000 to NOK 62 346 000 74 Transferability to a limited liability company may be transferred, granted by: [[New]] 172,000,000 1710 Defence and new buildings and new installations Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be carried over, increased by: 830000 from NOK 4 171 164 000 to NOK 4 179 464 000 47 New buildings and new installations, can be transferred, can be used under cap. 1761, entry 47 is reduced by 100000 000 from NOK 2546 032 000 to NOK 2446 032 000 1720 Common Defence Capabilities Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 310 879 000 from NOK 9 217 413,000 to NOK 9 528 292 000 1731 Army Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 284 173,000 from NOK 5 566 035 000 to NOK 5 850 208 000 1732 Sea defence services Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 604 346,000 from NOK 4 389 630000 to NOK 4 993 976000 1733 Air Force Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 222 975,000 from NOK 5 292 845000 to NOK 5 515 820000 1734 Home Security Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 9 167 000 from NOK 1394 798 000 to NOK 1 403 965 000 1735 Intelligence 21 Special operating costs are increased by: 17 807,000 from NOK 2 005 584 000 to NOK 2 023 391 000 1760 Defence and major acquisitions and maintenance Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be used under cap. 1760, entry 45, reduced by 61 434 000 from NOK 1629,765000 to NOK 1568,331,000 44 Joint funded investments, nationally financed shares, may be transferred, reduced by: 26 200000 from NOK 83 185000 to NOK 56 985000 45 Major acquisitions and maintenance of equipment may be carried over, may be used under cover. 1761, entry 45 is increased by 33 431,000 from NOK 8 952 590000 to NOK 8 986 021000 48 Jointly financed investments, jointly financed, may be transferred, reduced by: 152 889 000 from NOK 205000000 to NOK 52 111 000 1761 New base-solution fighter aircraft 47 New buildings and new installations, can be transferred, can be used under cap. 1710, entry 47 is increased by: 100000 000 from NOK 1,176,449 000 to NOK 1,276,449 000 1790 Coast Guard Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 81 170 000 from NOK 1157 875000 to NOK 1076 705000 1791 Rescue helicopter service Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 44 639 000 from NOK 866 848 000 to NOK 911 487 000 1792 Norwegian forces abroad Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 2 599 000 from NOK 990 316 000 to NOK 992 915000 1800 Ministry of Oil and Energy Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 3,700,000 from NOK 187 346 000 to NOK 183 646 000 21 Special operating costs may be carried over, may be used under item 72, reduced by: 2500000 from NOK 26 500000 to NOK 24000000 70 Grants to international organisations, etc. , is reduced by: 5,300,000 from NOK 10000000 to NOK 470000 1810 Oil Directorate Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 3,000,000 from NOK 304000000 to NOK 301000000 1815 Petoro AS 70 Administration is reduced by: 3,000,000 from NOK 358,700000 to NOK 355,700000 1820 Norwegian Watercourse and Energy Directorate Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 5000000 from NOK 566000000 to NOK 561000000 26 Operating costs, the Energy Regulatory Authority, are reduced by: 21 200000 from NOK 56 500000 to NOK 35 300000 73 Grants for the balancing of network rentals are granted by: [[New]] 50,000,000 1830 Research and industrial development 70 Grants to Nordic Energy Research are reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 11000000 to NOK 10000000 1840 CO 2 management 72 Full scale CO 2 handling, can be transferred, can be used under heading 70, increased by: 150000000 from NOK 149000000 to NOK 299000000 2309 Random expense Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 375,000,000 from NOK 4 266 600 000 to NOK 3891 600 000 2410 State Loan Fund for Education Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be used under item 45, increased by: 20,000,000 from NOK 392 941000 to NOK 412 941000 50 Appropriations for education grants, estimates, are increased by: 73 867 000 from NOK 7 170 151,000 to NOK 7 244 018 000 70 Training grants, estimates, are increased by: 435 443,000 from NOK 2983 362,000 to NOK 3418 805000 71 Other scholarships, estimate appropriations, are reduced by: 29 740,000 from NOK 742 493 000 to NOK 712 753 000 72 Interest subsidies, estimates, are increased by: 25 610,000 from NOK 12,255,776 000 to NOK 1,281,386 000 73 Depreciation, estimate allocation, is increased by: 135 088 000 from NOK 602 006000 to NOK 737 094000 74 Losses on loans increased by: 1,300,000 from NOK 386 200000 to NOK 387 500000 90 Increases in loans and interest payable, estimates, are increased by: 10,621,000 from NOK 28 594 604 000 to NOK 28 605 225 000 2412 The Bank of Homes Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 2000000 from NOK 354 910000 to NOK 356 910000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance may be transferred, increased by: 2000000 from NOK 38 844 000 to NOK 40 844 000 90 New loans, estimates, are increased by: 1,410,000 from NOK 14 33000000 to NOK 15 740000000 2421 Innovation Norway 80 Activities of Svalbard, financed by: [[New]] 3,200,000 2440 Direct economic involvement of the country in the petroleum industry 30 Investments are increased by: 2,000,000 from NOK 27000000 to NOK 29000000 2445 State-owned buildings 24 Operating result: 1 Revenue -5 177 400 000 2 Operating costs 2 150 483,000 3 Depreciation 1,442,800,000 4 Interest on the capital of the country 93,000,000 5 For investment purposes 1,242 976,000 6 To the Regulatory Fund 1.13,000,000 Sum: -361 141 000 30 Building design, may be transferred, reduced by: 22,000,000 from NOK 648 401,000 to NOK 626 401000 31 The start of ordinary construction projects may be transferred, increased by: 45,000,000 from NOK 76 800000 to NOK 121 800000 33 The continuation of ordinary construction projects may be transferred, increased by: 200000000 from NOK 2237 450000 to NOK 2437 450000 34 The continuation of user-funded construction projects may be transferred, increased by: 100000 000 from NOK 713000000 to NOK 813000000 2470 General government pension fund 24 Operating result: 1 Revenue, forecasting -652,695,000 2 Operating expenditure, estimate appropriations 448 822,000 3 Depreciation 130 606 000 4 Interest on the capital of the country 207,000 5 For investment purposes 55 645000 Sum: -17 415 000 2530 Parental carcass 70 Birth culls, estimated appropriations, are reduced by: 694,000,000 from NOK 19 174000000 to NOK 18 480000000 71 Birth and adoption lump sum estimates are reduced by: 67,000,000 from NOK 927000000 to NOK 860000 000 72 Parental leave allowance, estimated appropriation, is reduced by: 5000000 from NOK 485000000 to NOK 480000000 73 Adoption obituaries, estimates, are reduced by: 7000000 from NOK 63000000 to NOK 56000000 2541 Day money 70 Appropriations for the day shall be reduced by: 1,053,000,000 from NOK 10 253000000 to NOK 9 20000000 2542 State guarantee on claims for wages and salaries in the event of bankruptcy, etc. 70 State guarantee on claims for wages and salaries in the event of bankruptcy, etc. , estimates are reduced by: 45,000,000 from NOK 890000 to NOK 8450000000 2620 Social benefits to a lonely mother or father 70 Transitional assistance, estimated allocation, is reduced by: 230 000 000 from NOK 1940000000 to NOK 1710000000 72 Social assistance for child care of a lone mother or father in work, estimates are reduced by: 23,000,000 from NOK 170000000 to NOK 147000000 73 Supplementary and school-related social benefits, estimates are reduced by: 19 700 000 from NOK 91 700000 to NOK 72 000 000 76 Contribution advances shall be increased by: 15 800000 from NOK 704 200000 to NOK 720 000 000 2650 Sykepenger 70 Sickness allowance for employees, etc. , estimates are increased by: 110,000,000 from NOK 37 190 000 to NOK 37 300000 71 Sickness benefits for self-employed persons, estimated appropriations, are reduced by: 100000 000 from NOK 148000000 to NOK 1380000000 72 Nursing, training, n.e.c. , estimates are reduced by: 53 500000 from NOK 1000000 to NOK 946 500000 75 Health care holiday pay, estimated, is increased by: 20,000,000 from NOK 2 080000000 to NOK 2 10000000 2651 Clearance of duties 70 Clearance of work, allocation of estimates, is reduced by: 2,240,000,000 from NOK 31 670000000 to NOK 29 430000000 71 Supplementary aid, estimated allocation, is reduced by: 47 600 000 from NOK 229 600 000 to NOK 182000000 72 Medical statements shall be reduced by: 35,000,000 from NOK 425000 to NOK 390000 2655 Disability 70 Misappropriation, allocation of estimates, increased by: 1 540,000 from NOK 92 950000 to NOK 94 490000 75 Men's compensation in the event of occupational injury, estimated appropriations, shall be reduced by: 16,000,000 from NOK 86000000 to NOK 70000000 76 Occupational injury prevention gml. legislation, the allocation of estimates, shall be reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 41000000 to NOK 40000000 2661 Basic and auxiliary aid, aids, etc. 70 Basic aid, estimates, is reduced by: 21 600 000 from NOK 1761 600 000 to NOK 1740 000 71 Auxiliary services, estimate appropriations, increased by 25 300000 from NOK 1514 700000 to NOK 1540000000 73 Utilities, etc. in the course of work and training, shall be reduced by: 4,000,000 from NOK 130000000 to NOK 126000000 74 Supplements to cars are reduced by: 111 900 000 from NOK 846 900 000 to NOK 735000 75 Improvement of functionality, aids, is reduced by: 29 600 000 from NOK 3 3 369 600 000 to NOK 3 340 000 77 Orthopaedic aids, reduced by: 67 300000 from NOK 1637 300000 to NOK 1570000000 78 Hearing aids, reduced by: 27,670,000 from NOK 737 670000 to NOK 71000000 79 Activity aids for persons over 26 years of age are increased by: 15,000,000 from NOK 50 450000 to NOK 65 450000 2670 Age 70 Basic pension, estimated appropriation, is reduced by: 170,000,000 from NOK 75 740000000 to NOK 75 570000000 72 Pensions on income, estimates, are increased by: 10000000 from NOK 2730000000 to NOK 2740000000 73 Special supplements, pension supplements etc. , estimates are increased by: 22,000,000 from NOK 6 158000000 to NOK 6 180000000 2680 Survivors 71 Supplementary pension, estimated appropriation, is increased by: 5000000 from NOK 805000000 to NOK 810000000 72 Special supplement, estimate allocation, is reduced by: 2000000 from NOK 85000000 to NOK 83000000 2686 gravitational assistance 70 gravitational allowances, estimate appropriations, are increased by: 9000000 from NOK 1996000000 to NOK 205000000 2711 Specialist health services, etc. 70 Specialist assistance, increased by: 5000000 from NOK 2235000000 to NOK 2240000000 71 Psychological assistance, reduced by: 10000000 from NOK 323000000 to NOK 313000000 72 Dental treatment, reduced by: 118 320 000 from NOK 2,318,320 000 to NOK 2,200,000 76 Private laboratories and X-ray institutes shall be increased by: 26,000,000 from NOK 1024000000 to NOK 1050000000 2751 Medicinal products n.e.c. 70 Medicinal products, increased by 79 200000 from NOK 9 310 800000 to NOK 9 390 000 71 Medical statements shall be increased by: 1000000 from NOK 7000000 to NOK 8000000 72 Medical consumables are reduced by: 32 100000 from NOK 2042 100000 to NOK 2 010 000 2752 Reimbursement of self-payment 70 Self-proprietary cap 1, reduced by: 44 200000 from NOK 5 214 200000 to NOK 5 170 000 71 Self-proprietary cap 2, reduced by: 19,000,000 from NOK 1014000000 to NOK 995000000 2755 Health services in municipalities etc. 62 Remuneration scheme physiotherapists, may be used under heading 71, increased by: 16,000,000 from NOK 413000000 to NOK 429000000 70 General medical care is reduced by: 124 600 000 from NOK 5 274 600 000 to NOK 5150000000 71 Physiotherapy, may be used under heading 62, is increased by: 45,000,000 from NOK 1,180000000 to NOK 1,225000000 72 midwifery assistance, increased by: 2000000 from NOK 61000000 to NOK 63000000 73 Chiropractor therapy is increased by: 5000000 from NOK 174000000 to NOK 179000000 75 Logopedic and orthopaedic treatments are increased by: 4,000,000 from NOK 164000000 to NOK 168000000 2756 Other health services 70 Health services in other EEA countries are increased by: 3,000,000 from NOK 13000000 to NOK 16000000 71 Health services abroad etc. , is reduced by: 90 000 000 from NOK 490000 to NOK 400000 72 Health services to non-residents, etc. , is reduced by: 20,000,000 from NOK 240000000 to NOK 220000000 2790 Other health measures 70 Contributions, reduced by 4,900,000 from NOK 254,900000 to NOK 250000000 3225 Basic training measures 4 Reimbursement of ODA-approved expenditure, increased by: 7,231,000 from NOK 19 734 000 to NOK 26 965 000 3288 International cooperation actions 4 Reimbursement of ODA-approved expenditure, reduced by: 587,000 from NOK 5698 000 to NOK 511000 3292 Norwegian and community education for adult immigrants Add User-ID Succeeded Norwegian receipt training, ODA-approved expenditure, is increased by: 1,800,000 from NOK 24 185000 to NOK 25 985000 3400 Ministry of Justice and Defence 2 Reimbursement of ODA-approved expenditure, granted by [[New]] 1000000 3410 Courts of Justice 4 Protective matters relating to land change courts shall be reduced by: 3,043,000 from NOK 5 916 000 to NOK 2 873 000 3440 Police Directorate - the Police and Len’s Seat 2 Reimbursements, etc. , is reduced by: 19 400000 from NOK 280 624 000 to NOK 261 224 000 6 Fee — Foreign affairs, reduced by: 14 770,000 from NOK 282 259 000 to NOK 267 489 000 8 Reimbursements from the EU Border and Visa Fund are increased by: 4,700,000 from NOK 21 258 000 to NOK 25 958 000 3456 Emergency and emergency communication services Add User-ID Succeeded Subscription income is reduced by: 1 600 000 from NOK 347 305000 to NOK 345 705000 4 Reimbursements of major equipment acquisitions and maintenance are increased by: 95,000,000 from NOK 9 623 000 to NOK 104 623 000 3490 Directorate for Foreign Affairs Add User-ID Succeeded Assisted return from Norway for rejected asylum seekers, ODA-approved expenditure, is reduced by: 1,084 000 from NOK 1845000 to NOK 761000 3 Travel expenses for refugees to and from abroad, ODA-approved expenditure, are increased by: 10 371,000 from NOK 13 255 000 to NOK 23 626 000 4 Asylum recipients, ODA-approved expenditure, are increased by: 101 247 000 from NOK 279 091000 to NOK 380 338 000 5 Reimbursement income is reduced by: 1 899 000 from NOK 8 862 000 to NOK 6 963 000 6 Protection for refugees outside Norway, etc., ODA-approved expenditure, is increased by: 9 149 000 from NOK 11 917,000 to NOK 21 066 000 7 Interpretation and translation, ODA-approved expenditure, is reduced by: 1 678 000 from NOK 14 604000 to NOK 12 926000 8 International migration work and reintegration in the home country, ODA-approved expenditure, are reduced by: 15 792,000 from NOK 55 128 000 to NOK 39 336 000 3595 Staten Kartsverk 2 Sales and subscriptions, etc. , increased by: 9,200,000 from NOK 134 668 000 to NOK 143 868 000 3605 The seat of employment and welfare Add User-ID Succeeded Administrative allowances shall be increased by: 1,140 000 from NOK 9 260000 to NOK 10 400000 6 Fee income for the determination of contributions shall be reduced by: 2,300,000 from NOK 27 600 000 to NOK 25 300000 3614 Housing loan scheme of the State pension fund Add User-ID Succeeded Fee income, loans, is increased by: 5000000 from NOK 23000000 to NOK 28000000 90 Repayment of loans shall be increased by: 200000000 from NOK 10 900000000 to NOK 11 10000000 3635 Wages and salaries, etc. Add User-ID Succeeded Reimbursement of State activities, etc. , increased by: 1000000 from NOK 8000000 to NOK 9000000 3704 The Health Archive 2 Miscellaneous revenue, by [[New]] 3,000,000 3740 Directorate for Health 5 Health services to non-residents, etc. , increased by: 12,000,000 from NOK 63000000 to NOK 75000000 3747 Directorate for Radiation Protection and Nuclear Safety 2 Miscellaneous income is reduced by: 2,900,000 from NOK 19 831,000 to NOK 16 931000 4 Fee revenue shall be increased by: 230000 from NOK 9 151,000 to NOK 11 501000 3855 State administration of child protection 60 Local peculiarities are increased by: 50,000,000 from NOK 1437 256 000 to NOK 1487 256 000 3906 Directorate for Mineral Management with the Bergmeister for Svalbard 86 Infringement fee and periodic penalty payment, granted by [[New]] 1000000 3912 General Secretariat for Complaints 2 Reimbursements and other income are increased by: 194,000 from NOK 206 000 to NOK 400000 87 Infringement fee shall be increased by: 4,140 000 from NOK 100000 to NOK 4 240 000 3917 Directorate for Fisheries Add User-ID Succeeded Reimbursements and miscellaneous income are increased by: 5,747,000 from NOK 103 000 to NOK 5850 000 3935 Patent-controlled 4 Miscellaneous income, by [[New]] 4500000 3940 Internationalisation measures 70 Refunds from the Baltic Investment Programme shall be granted by: [[New]] 6,700,000 3950 Management of state ownership 91 Depreciation of equity Electronic Chart Centre AS, granted by [[New]] 20,000,000 4352 Railway Directorate Add User-ID Succeeded Payments to Norwegian Railway School and Norwegian Railway Museum are reduced by: 96 200000 from NOK 98 600 000 to NOK 2 400000 4481 Sale of climate allowances Add User-ID Succeeded Sales income is reduced by: 2 565,000,000 from NOK 7 181 722 000 to NOK 4 616 722 000 4605 Directorate for Financial Management Add User-ID Succeeded Economic services are increased by: 50,000,000 from NOK 51 600 000 to NOK 101 600 000 4610 Customs duties 4 Miscellaneous reimbursements are increased by: 570000 from NOK 1 100000 to NOK 6 800000 4618 Tax receipts 86 Fines, withdrawals, etc. , is reduced by: 50,000,000 from NOK 1430000000 to NOK 1380000000 88 Delay fee, the Accounting Register, is reduced by: 37 600 000 from NOK 262 600 000 to NOK 225 000 4620 Statistical Central Bureau 85 The periodic penalty payment shall be reduced by: 10000000 from NOK 25000000 to NOK 15000000 4700 Ministry of Defence Add User-ID Succeeded Revenue is increased by: 14 420,000 from NOK 25,745000 to NOK 40,165000 4720 Common Defence Capabilities Add User-ID Succeeded Revenue is increased by: 705 772 000 from NOK 517 737 000 to NOK 1,223 509 000 4731 Army Add User-ID Succeeded Revenue is increased by: 7 326,000 from NOK 91 984 000 to NOK 99 310000 4734 Home Security Add User-ID Succeeded Revenue is increased by: 13 515,000 from NOK 5 766 000 to NOK 19 281000 4760 Defence and major acquisitions and maintenance Add User-ID Succeeded Revenues are reduced by: 2908 000 from NOK 33 090 000 to NOK 30 182 000 45 Larger equipment acquisition and maintenance, revenue, granted by [[New]] 34 460,000 48 Jointly financed investments, income, are reduced by: 150 600 000 from NOK 205 036 000 to NOK 54 436 000 4791 Rescue helicopter service Add User-ID Succeeded Revenue is increased by: 45,000,000 from NOK 774 747 000 to NOK 819 747 000 4800 Ministry of Oil and Energy 2 Miscellaneous income, by [[New]] 1,300,000 5310 State Loan Fund for Education 4 Reimbursement of ODA-approved expenditure, increased by: 2,570 000 from NOK 18 530000 to NOK 21 100000 29 Appointment fee shall be reduced by: 6,700,000 from NOK 16 892,000 to NOK 10 192 000 89 Pure fees shall be increased by: 5,024,000 from NOK 105,016 000 to NOK 110,040000 90 Reduced loans and interest payable are increased by: 253,759,000 from NOK 10 776 474 000 to NOK 11 030 233 000 93 Conversion of training loans into scholarships shall be increased by: 48 097 000 from NOK 6 999 551 000 to NOK 7047 648 000 5325 Innovation Norway 50 Return from a nationwide innovation scheme is increased by: 690000 from NOK 15000000 to NOK 21 900 000 85 The repayment of depreciated loans from seed capital funds shall be granted by: [[New]] 600 000 91 Returned capital, seed funds, is increased by: 8,200,000 from NOK 10000000 to NOK 18 200000 5329 Export Credit Scheme 71 Refunds from Export Credit Norway AS are granted by: [[New]] 22,000,000 5341 Deductions on outstanding receivables 98 Deductions on own-account government bonds are reduced by: 4,000,000 from NOK 8000000 to NOK 4000000 5351 Transfer from Norway’s Bank 85 Transfer, increased by 2 798 300000 from NOK 12000000 to NOK 14 798 300000 5440 Direct economic involvement of the country in the petroleum industry 24 Operating result: 1 Revenue 159 200,000 2 Operating costs -27 400,000,000 3 Expenses of exploration and field development -2 100000 000 4 Depreciation -20 200 000 000 5 Interest on the capital of the country -2 900 000 000 Sum: 106 600000000 30 Depreciation reduced by: 1 900 000 000 from NOK 22 10000000 to NOK 20 20 20000000 5490 NVE Facility Add User-ID Succeeded Sale of equipment, etc. , increased by: 1 400000 from NOK 100000 to NOK 1500000 5491 Depreciation of the capital of the State in the course of its business operations 30 Depreciation is increased by: 350000 from NOK 1574 406 000 to NOK 1577 906 000 5521 Value added tax 70 VAT is increased by: 1,009,000,000 from NOK 31000000 to NOK 311 009000000 5526 Charge on alcohol 70 Charges on alcohol are reduced by: 500000 from NOK 14 200000000 to NOK 14 199 500000 5536 Fee on motor vehicles, etc. 71 One-off fee shall be reduced by: 14,000,000 from NOK 14 641000000 to NOK 14 627000000 5541 Tax on electricity 70 Tax on electricity is reduced by: 990,000,000 from NOK 11 010000000 to NOK 10 020000000 5562 Totalisation fee 70 Totaliser charge reduced by: 47,000,000 from NOK 135000000 to NOK 88000000 5570 Sectoral charges under the Ministry of Local Government and Modernisation 70 Sectoral charges National communication authority is reduced by: 3,900,000 from NOK 243 400000 to NOK 239 500000 5574 Sectoral charges under the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries 74 Fisheries research fee shall be increased by: 24000000 from NOK 236 496 000 to NOK 260 496 000 5578 Sectoral Fees under the Ministry of Climate and Environment 72 Fish fees shall be increased by: 1000000 from NOK 19000000 to NOK 20000000 5603 Interest on the capital of the State in the course of its business operations 80 Interest on fixed capital of the country shall be reduced by: 100000 from NOK 93 507 000 to NOK 93 407 000 5607 Interest of the housing loan scheme in the State pension fund 80 Interest is increased by: 85,000,000 from NOK 963000000 to NOK 1048000000 5611 NSB AS shares 85 Dividends are increased by: 8,000,000 from NOK 225000000 to NOK 233000000 5617 Interest of the State Loan Fund for Education 80 Interest is reduced by: 5,647,000 from NOK 4 857 196,000 to NOK 4 851 549 000 5622 Shares in Avinor AS 85 Dividends are increased by: 72 400000 from NOK 512 500000 to NOK 584 900 000 5625 Interest and dividends from Innovation Norway 81 The interest margin, the innovation loan scheme, is increased by: 4500000 from NOK 20000000 to NOK 24 500000 85 Dividends, the Low Risk Loan Facility, are increased by: 27,700,000 from NOK 125000000 to NOK 152 700 000 88 Return of dividends from seed capital funds granted by: [[New]] 3,000,000 5631 Shares in AS Vinmonopolet 85 The State’s surplus share is increased by: 87 100000 from NOK 41 200000 to NOK 128 300000 86 Dividends are increased by: 3000 from NOK 2000 to NOK 5000 5652 Landskog SF - interest and dividends 85 Dividends are increased by: 55 250000 from NOK 24 750000 to NOK 80000000 5656 Shares in the administration of the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries 85 Dividends are increased by: 1,362,100,000 from NOK 21 635 500000 to NOK 22 997 600 000 5680 Statnett SF 85 Dividends are increased by: 41,000,000 from NOK 443000000 to NOK 484000000 5685 Equinor ASA shares 85 Dividends are increased by: 2,850,000 from NOK 16 620000 to NOK 19 470000000 5692 Dividends of the capital of the State in the Nordic Investment Bank 85 Dividends are reduced by: 28 900 000 from NOK 112,700000 to NOK 83,800000 5700 Revenue of the public sector 71 Social security contributions are reduced by: 5000000 from NOK 150 681 000 to NOK 150 676 000 5701 Miscellaneous income 71 Reimbursement in the event of occupational injury shall be reduced by: 165 500000 from NOK 940000 to NOK 774 500000 86 Recovery of errors, increased by: 55,000,000 from NOK 1150000000 to NOK 1205000000 87 Miscellaneous income is reduced by: 7,750,000 from NOK 26 950000 to NOK 19 200000 88 Assistive Technology Centres, etc. , increased by: 5000000 from NOK 63000000 to NOK 68000000 5704 State guarantee for claims for wages and salaries in the event of bankruptcy 70 Dividends are reduced by: 30,000,000 from NOK 230000000 to NOK 200000000 5705 Reimbursement of daily allowances 70 Reimbursement of daily allowances, State guarantee in the event of bankruptcy, shall be reduced by: 13,000,000 from NOK 26000000 to NOK 13000000 71 Reimbursement of daily allowances for frontier workers, etc. resided in Norway, reduced by 500000 from NOK 800000 to NOK 300000 ‘... Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The government is asked to amend the regulation on country-by-country reporting in order to ensure that, where extended information is to be provided, it is granted irrespective of the materiality limit.’ Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The government is asking for an estimate of costs, benefits and disadvantages by tightening the wording that the figures should be taken from the annual accounts of Section 4 of the LLR Regulation and by requiring the main figures in the country-by-country reporting to be included as a note in the financial statements.’ [[1]] [[2]] Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision of the Grand Duchy on excise duties applicable to the State Treasury for 2019 I In its Decision of 12 December 2018, No. 1999 on excise duties to the State Treasury for 2019 is amended as follows: For a charge on electricity [[chapter. 5541, 70]] From 1 January 2019 it shall be subject to Law No 19 May 1933. 11 if excise duties are paid to the State Treasury at 13,83 øre per kWh on electricity supplied here in the country. II In its Decision of 12 December 2018, No. 1999 on excise duties to the State Treasury for 2019 is amended as follows: For air passenger fee [[chapter. 5561 heading 70]] From the time the Ministry decides, it shall be governed by Law 19 May 1933 No. 11 on excise duties paid to the State Treasury for the acquisition of passengers from Norwegian airports of NOK 75 per passenger for flights with a final destination in Europe. For other flights, a charge of NOK 200 per passenger shall be payable. Aeroplanes less than 20 tonnes are exempted from charging as from 1 July 2019. III In its Decision of 12 December 2018, No. 1999 on excise duties to the State Treasury for 2019 is amended as follows: For totalisation fee [[chapter. 5562 heading 70]] From 1 January to 30 June 2019, revenue from games of up to 3.7 pst shall be charged to the treasury. of gross turnover during the period or half the rate for the year as a whole. This is prescribed by the Government. IV That amendment shall become applicable for Decision No 1 January 2019, for Decision No II from 1 July 2019 and for Decision No III from 1 August 2019.»
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e57219	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 19–22, from the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that social security schemes do not lead to permanent negative purchasing power developments for pensioners and to establish a model for calculating the income of pensioners even this year with low wage growth.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a return to the State budget for 2020, proposing a substantial increase in the allocations for the conservation of priority species under the Nature Diversity Act so that efforts can be strongly increased in line with the wishes of the Stortinge.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate and make proposals for conversions in the context of the State budget for 2020, which makes it profitable for owners of recreational boats to switch to zero-emission technology.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to review legislation and rates on social assistance, living quarters and other needs-tested benefits and to return to the State budget for 2020 with proposals that ensure a decent standard of living for beneficiaries and increase the amount paid.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e57251	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 15–18, from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the social security settlement of the Storting to be fully treated, and the organisations involved in the social security settlement must be given the right to negotiate.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government is asked to review the legislation relating to the payment of benefits when staying at state and county municipal institutions and to return to Stortinget by the end of 2019 with legislative proposals correcting this regulatory imbalance with effect from 1 January 2020.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate and propose an electricity tax exemption for electric buses in the State budget for 2020.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government is asked, in dialogue with the Swedish and Danish authorities, to take the initiative of reopening a direct route for trains between Oslo and Copenhagen, and to start the process of acquiring new night services to operate directly between the two cities.’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e57284	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 13 and 14, from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The State budget for 2019 is amended as follows: Cape. Post Subject matter Krona 21 Government Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 8,000,000 from NOK 190 200000 to NOK 198 200000 41 Size Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 2,600,000 from NOK 956 500000 to NOK 953 900000 61 Supreme Court Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 1 600 000 from NOK 112 195 000 to NOK 113 795000 104 Official travels abroad of the royal family Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 3,000,000 from NOK 9 991000 to NOK 12 991000 116 International organisations 70 Compulsory contributions, reduced by 40,000,000 from NOK 1605 201000 to NOK 1565 201000 117 The EEA Financial Mechanisms 77 The EEA Financial Mechanism 2014-2021, may be transferred, reduced by: 250,000,000 from NOK 1559000000 to NOK 1309000000 78 The Norwegian Financial Mechanism 2014-2021 may be transferred, reduced by: 380,000,000 from NOK 1,218000000 to NOK 838/000000 118 Foreign policy bets 21 Special operating costs, may be carried over, may be used under items 70, 71, 72 and 73, increased by: 2000000 from NOK 85 532 000 to NOK 87 532 000 74 Research, dialogue and human rights, etc., are reduced by: 2000000 from NOK 45 583 000 to NOK 43 583 000 140 Ministry of Foreign Affairs Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 10 294,000 from NOK 1573 979 000 to NOK 1563 685 000 144 Norwegian Exchange Cooperation Centre [[Norec]] Exchange arrangements, may be transferred, reduced by: 57,000,000 from NOK 142000000 to NOK 85000000 151 Peace, security and global cooperation 71 Global security issues and disarmament may be transmitted, reduced by: 532,000 from NOK 282 700000 to NOK 282 168 000 73 United Nations and global challenges, can be transmitted, reduced by: 8,800,000 from NOK 292 300000 to NOK 283 500000 152 Human rights 70 Human rights, may be transferred, increased by: 1000000 from NOK 535 157 000 to NOK 536 157 000 159 Regional appropriations 71 Europe and Central Asia, can be transferred, reduced by: 4,031,000 from NOK 675 674 000 to NOK 671 643 000 72 Afghanistan, may be transferred, reduced by: 24000000 from NOK 574 500000 to NOK 550 500000 75 Africa, may be transferred, reduced by: 20,000,000 from NOK 1015 584 000 to NOK 995 584 000 77 Latin America, may be transferred, reduced by: 350000 from NOK 130 350000 to NOK 126 850000 161 Education, research and professional cooperation 70 Education, may be transferred, reduced by: 40 960,000 from NOK 2764 456 000 to NOK 2723 496 000 72 The knowledge bank and technical cooperation may be transferred, increased by: 2000000 from NOK 861 714 000 to NOK 863 714 000 162 Enterprise development, agriculture and renewable energy 70 Enterprise development and trade, may be transferred, reduced by: 75,000,000 from NOK 621 700000 to NOK 546 700000 71 Food security and agriculture, can be transferred, reduced by: 11,000,000 from NOK 1091 966 000 to NOK 1080 966 000 75 NORFUND - loss disposal, increased by 75,000,000 from NOK 468 750000 to NOK 543 750000 163 Climate, Environment and the Sea 45 Major acquisitions and maintenance of equipment may be transferred, increased by: 22 750 000 from NOK 37 900 000 to NOK 60 650000 164 Equivalence 70 Equality, may be transferred, increased by: 44,000,000 from NOK 372 219 000 to NOK 416 219 000 171 UN Development Work 72 Other grants [[FN]] 500000 from NOK 1996 700000 to NOK 196 200000 179 Refugee measures in Norway 21 Special operating costs are increased by: 112 267,000 from NOK 550,062 000 to NOK 662,329000 200 Ministry of Knowledge Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 889 000 from NOK 382 440000 to NOK 383 329000 201 Analysis and knowledge base 21 Special operating costs are increased by: 1 185000 from NOK 40 671000 to NOK 41 856 000 220 Directorate of Education Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 30,000,000 from NOK 380 591 000 to NOK 350 591 000 70 Grants to educational material, etc., may be transferred, may be used under heading 21, increased by: 20,000,000 from NOK 68 705000 to NOK 88 705000 225 Basic training measures 64 Contributions to the training of children and young people seeking residence in Norway are increased by: 17 201,000 from NOK 52 991000 to NOK 70 192 000 68 Subsidies for training in criminal services are increased by: 3,828,000 from NOK 294,663 000 to NOK 298,491000 74 Project grants are reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 10 195 000 to NOK 9 195 000 226 Quality development of initial training 21 Special operating costs may be transferred, increased by: 535000 000 from NOK 1 177 918 000 to NOK 1 712 918 000 71 Grants to knowledge centres shall be increased by: 6,700,000 from NOK 67,075000 to NOK 73,775000 227 Grants to special schools 78 Grants increased by: 2000000 from NOK 164 245000 to NOK 166 245000 228 Grants to independent schools, etc. 77 The German school in Oslo, the estimate, is increased by 3,000,000 from NOK 24 615000 to NOK 27 615000 230 State Special Educational Support System Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 3,000,000 from NOK 714 323,000 to NOK 717 323 000 231 Kindergartens 21 Special operating costs, may be carried over, may be used under item 51, reduced by: 3185000 from NOK 457,516,000 to NOK 454,331000 241 Joint actions for the vocational education sector 21 Special operating costs may be transferred, increased by: 12 568 000 from NOK 17 031 000 to NOK 29 599 000 70 Other transfers, which may be used under item 21, are reduced by: 12 568 000 from NOK 12 568 000 to NOK 0 251 22 July Centre 1 Operating costs granted by: [[NY]] 700000 252 EU education and youth programme 70 Grants reduced by: 13 757,000 from NOK 656 136 000 to NOK 642 379 000 253 Higher Education Colleges 70 Grants to higher education institutions are increased by: 5000000 from NOK 898 926 000 to NOK 903 926 000 255 Contribution to Peace and Human Rights Centres 71 The Fall City Centre, increased by: 1 700 000 from NOK 21 496 000 to NOK 23 196,000 256 Competence Norway Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 500000 from NOK 64 258 000 to NOK 63 758 000 258 Measures for lifelong learning 21 Special operating costs, may be carried over, may be used under item 1, increased by: 880,000 from NOK 214 844 000 to NOK 223 724 000 260 Universities and higher education institutions 50 State universities and higher education institutions are increased by: 49 373,000 from NOK 35 632 559 000 to NOK 35 681 932 000 70 Private higher education institutions are increased by: 9000000 from NOK 1578 967 000 to NOK 1587 967 000 270 International mobility and social purposes for students 75 Grants for the construction of student housing may be transferred, reduced by: 298 466 000 from NOK 662,779 000 to NOK 364,313 000 280 Common Units 50 The Directorate for Internationalisation and Quality Development in Higher Education shall be increased by: 20 500000 from NOK 450 293 000 to NOK 470 793 000 51 UNIT — Directorate for ICT and Joint Services in Higher Education and Research will be increased by: 19 900 000 from NOK 157 654 000 to NOK 177 554 000 281 Joint actions for universities and higher education Add User-ID Succeeded Operating expenditure, may be used under heading 70, increased by: 15,000,000 from NOK 195 742 000 to NOK 210 742 000 50 Grants to the Norwegian Research Council are reduced by: 5000000 from NOK 234 107 000 to NOK 229 107 000 285 Norwegian Research Council 55 Business costs, reduced by: 21 500000 from NOK 792 543 000 to NOK 771 043 000 287 Research institutes and other activities 21 Special operating costs, may be carried over, may be used under item 71, reduced by: 400000 from NOK 6845000 to NOK 645000 288 International cooperation actions 72 International basic research organisations are increased by: 13 551 000 from NOK 286 405000 to NOK 299,956000 73 The EU Framework Programme for Research and Innovation may be transferred, increased by: 134 082,000 from NOK 2 240 253 000 to NOK 2 374 335000 75 UNESCO quota reduced by: 2 146 000 from NOK 22 793 000 to NOK 20 647 000 290 Directorate for Integration and Diversity Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 2861 000 from NOK 264 480000 to NOK 267 341000 291 Residence of refugees and measures for immigrants 21 Special operating costs may be transferred, increased by: 7 600 000 from NOK 53 815000 to NOK 61 415000 60 Integration grants, may be transferred, increased by: 85 600 000 from NOK 8 983 088 000 to NOK 9 068 688 000 61 Specific grants for the settlement of lone minor refugees, the allocation of estimates, shall be increased by: 2,400,000 from NOK 2 283 887 000 to NOK 2 286 287 000 62 Municipal migration measures are reduced by: 8,630,000 from NOK 269 652,000 to NOK 261 022 000 71 Grants to migrant organisations and other voluntary activities are increased by: 1000000 from NOK 134 953 000 to NOK 135 953 000 73 Grants increased by: 400000 from NOK 14 641000 to NOK 15 041000 292 Norwegian and community education for adult immigrants 60 Grants for training in Norwegian and social skills for adult immigrants are increased by: 18 700 000 from NOK 1425 376 000 to NOK 1444 076 000 300 Ministry of Culture Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 1 330,000 from NOK 170 252 000 to NOK 171 582 000 315 Voluntary objectives 21 Research, investigation and specific operational expenditure may be carried over, increased by: 5000000 from NOK 6 130 000 to NOK 11 130 000 79 At the disposal, be increased by: 1000000 from NOK 10 340000 to NOK 11 340000 82 VAT compensation for the construction of sports facilities is increased by: 99000000 from NOK 189 400000 to NOK 288 400000 325 General cultural purposes 21 Research, investigation and specific operational expenditure may be transferred, reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 28 920000 to NOK 27 920000 79 At the disposal, under item 1, may be increased by: 1000000 from NOK 730000 to NOK 830000 326 Language, literature and library purposes Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 100000 from NOK 641 287 000 to NOK 641 187 000 73 Language organisations, increased by: 1,300,000 from NOK 26 790 000 to NOK 28 090 000 328 Museum and visual art 70 The national museum network shall be increased by: 17,000,000 from NOK 1747 630000 to NOK 1764 630000 78 A number of firm measures are increased by: 350000 from NOK 116,785000 to NOK 120,285000 334 Film uses, etc. Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 1,550 000 from NOK 112,055000 to NOK 113,605000 50 The Film Fund, reduced by: 1,550 000 from NOK 520 160000 to NOK 518 610000 352 Impairment of functionality 21 Special operating costs, may be used under item 71, reduced by: 330,000 from NOK 15 060 000 to NOK 14 730000 400 Ministry of Justice and Defence Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 400000 from NOK 468 178 000 to NOK 467 778 000 23 Special operational expenditure, research, evaluation and knowledge acquisition may be transferred, increased by: 1000000 from NOK 30 280 000 to NOK 31 280 000 70 Transfers to private, increased by 1,300,000 from NOK 10 206 000 to NOK 11 506 000 71 Grants to international organisations are reduced by: 1,300,000 from NOK 14 427,000 to NOK 13 127 000 410 Courts of Justice Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 44 600 000 from NOK 2 540 629 000 to NOK 2 585 229 000 21 Special operating costs are increased by: 10000000 from NOK 71 935000 to NOK 81 935000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Protective matters/side costs, land change courts, may be transferred, reduced by: 3,862,000 from NOK 6 735 000 to NOK 2 873 000 430 Crime prevention services Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 1 011,000 from NOK 4559 896 000 to NOK 4558 885 000 440 Police Directorate - the Police and Len’s Seat Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 221 663,000 from NOK 18 016 648 000 to NOK 18 238 311000 21 Special operating costs are reduced by: 25 920,000 from NOK 139 507 000 to NOK 113 587 000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Search for marine casualties, in lakes and watercourses, may be transmitted, increased by: 2811,000 from NOK 9 189 000 to NOK 12000000 25 Return of asylum-seekers with refusals and other non-residents without a legal stay, allocation of estimates, reduced by: 25 418 000 from NOK 128 533 000 to NOK 103 115 000 444 Police security service [[PST]] Operating costs are increased by: 172,000,000 from NOK 890 983 000 to NOK 1 062 983 000 445 Higher Public Prosecutor's Office Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 120000 from NOK 262 057 000 to NOK 263 307 000 451 Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be used under cap. 456 entry 1 is increased by: 11 517,000 from NOK 760 355000 to NOK 771 872 000 453 Civil Clearing Authority Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 1 400000 from NOK 31 927 000 to NOK 33 327 000 454 Rescue helicopter service Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 45,000,000 from NOK 690 652,000 to NOK 735 652 000 45 Major acquisitions and maintenance of equipment may be transferred, reduced by: 456 769 000 from NOK 3094 510000 to NOK 2637 741000 455 Rescue services Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 1 100000 from NOK 109 258 000 to NOK 110 358 000 456 Emergency and emergency communication services Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be used under cap. 451 entry 1 is increased by: 15 600 000 from NOK 128 755000 to NOK 144 355000 21 Special operational expenditure — infrastructure Emergency networks, reduced by: 18 500000 from NOK 366,017,000 to NOK 347,517,000 45 Major acquisitions and maintenance of equipment may be transferred, increased by: 103,000,000 from NOK 35 176 000 to NOK 138 176 000 460 Special Unit for Police Affairs Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 1 400000 from NOK 47 451000 to NOK 48 851000 466 Special expenditure on criminal matters, etc. Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 97 736 000 from NOK 1 183 838 000 to NOK 1086 102000 467 Norwegian Lovtidend Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 639 000 from NOK 4 340000 to NOK 4 979000 469 Vertegration scheme Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 10,200,000 from NOK 252,675000 to NOK 262,875000 471 State liability and compensation scheme of the Storting 73 The scale of the compensatory allowance scheme shall be reduced by: 3,000,000 from NOK 25 713,000 to NOK 22 713 000 473 Civil law administration of the State 70 Compensation for victims of violence, allocation of estimates, increased by: 50,000,000 from NOK 300000 to NOK 350000000 475 Out-of-court settlement services Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 23 415 000 from NOK 104,851,000 to NOK 128,266,000 480 Svalbard budget 50 Grants increased by: 6000000 from NOK 360 484 000 to NOK 366 484 000 490 Directorate for Foreign Affairs Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 1250000 from NOK 1034 196,000 to NOK 1021 696 000 21 Special operating expenditure, reception of asylum, is increased by: 184,713,000 from NOK 520 513,000 to NOK 705 226 000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Special operating costs, interpretation and translation, are reduced by: 1,296 000 from NOK 14 896 000 to NOK 13 600 000 60 Grants to host municipalities for asylum recipients are increased by: 45 372 000 from NOK 138 354 000 to NOK 183 726 000 70 Social benefits for residents in reception of asylum are increased by: 27 681,000 from NOK 75 378 000 to NOK 103 059 000 72 International migration work, and assisted return and reintegration in the home country, estimates, are reduced by: 9 115,000 from NOK 72 069 000 to NOK 62 954000 73 Protection for refugees outside Norway, etc., support measures, can be used under Chapter. 291 item 60, increased by: 9 149 000 from NOK 11 917,000 to NOK 21 066 000 75 Travel costs for refugees to and from abroad may be carried over, increased by: 9,141,000 from NOK 11 337,000 to NOK 20 478 000 491 Foreigner’s Office Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs, may be used under item 21, reduced by: 7000000 from NOK 293 582 000 to NOK 286 582 000 21 Special operating costs, including treatment, may be used under item 1 increased by: 4,000,000 from NOK 6 370000 to NOK 10 370000 500 Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 930 000 from NOK 408 01000 to NOK 407 071000 23 Rents for common land, etc., are reduced by: 2,800,000 from NOK 24 664 000 to NOK 21 864 000 510 Ministry Security and Service Organisation 23 22 July to be reduced by: 700000 from NOK 12 260000 to NOK 11 560000 45 Major acquisitions and maintenance of equipment may be transferred, increased by: 2,800,000 from NOK 49 869 000 to NOK 52 669 000 530 Construction projects outside the housing arrangement 33 The continuation of construction projects may be transferred, increased by: 330,000 from NOK 1780 400000 to NOK 2 110 400000 45 Major acquisitions and maintenance of equipment may be transferred, increased by: 62000000 from NOK 563000000 to NOK 625000 533 Non-residential property Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 1,450,000 from NOK 20,686 000 to NOK 22 136 000 540 Directorate for Management and ICT Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 930 000 from NOK 291,044 000 to NOK 291,974 000 21 Special operating costs may be transferred, increased by: 500000 from NOK 24 436 000 to NOK 24 936 000 541 IT policy This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The development, implementation and coordination of IT policy, can be transferred, can be used under heading 70, reduced by: 500000 from NOK 21 029 000 to NOK 20 529 000 543 National communication authority Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 9 900 000 from NOK 224 600 000 to NOK 214 700000 45 Major acquisitions and maintenance of equipment may be transferred, increased by: 6000000 from NOK 16 400000 to NOK 22 400000 71 Broadband expansion, may be transmitted, increased by: 50,000,000 from NOK 199 750000 to NOK 249 750000 553 Convertible regions 60 Regional measures for the development of business environments and access to skills can be used under headings 63 and 65, increased by: 125 000 000 from NOK 47000000 to NOK 172000000 560 Sámi 50 Sami languages, culture and social life are increased by: 13,000,000 from NOK 497 069 000 to NOK 510 069 000 571 Framework grants to municipalities 60 Intrinsic subsidies are increased by: 232 390,000 from NOK 131 519 299 000 to NOK 131 751 689 000 572 Framework grant to county municipalities 60 Intrinsic subsidies are increased by: 56,000,000 from NOK 33 563 319 000 to NOK 33 619 319 000 581 Dwelling and housing measures 70 Housing aid, estimates, is reduced by: 22 800000 from NOK 3 102 591 000 to NOK 3079 791000 75 The establishment and adaptation of dwellings is increased by: 110,000,000 from NOK 481 574 000 to NOK 591 574 000 76 Rented dwellings, may be transferred, reduced by: 252 162,000 from NOK 710 464 000 to NOK 458 302 000 595 Staten Kartsverk Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs, may be used under items 21 and 45, reduced by: 100000 000 from NOK 899 021 000 to NOK 799 021 000 21 Special operating costs, may be carried over, may be used under items 1 and 45, increased by: 140 500000 from NOK 217 920000 to NOK 358 420000 601 Exploration, research and related activities This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The knowledge development IA agreement, etc., may be transferred, reduced by: 53,000,000 from NOK 81000000 to NOK 28000000 70 Grants reduced by: 10000000 from NOK 36 730000 to NOK 26 730000 71 Subsidies for sectoral programmes under the IA Agreement, etc., may be carried over, granted by: [[NY]] 53,000,000 605 The seat of employment and welfare Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 40 140 000 from NOK 11 681 785000 to NOK 11 721 925000 611 Pensions of state funds Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs, estimates, are reduced by: 1500000 from NOK 17 500000 to NOK 16000000 612 Grants to State pension fund Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs, estimates, are increased by: 717,000,000 from NOK 4253000000 to NOK 4970000000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The final statement, the estimate appropriations, shall be increased by: 200000000 from NOK -1 849000000 to NOK -1 649000000 70 For other members of the State pension fund, the estimate is increased by: 15,000,000 from NOK 161000000 to NOK 176000000 613 Employer’s fee for social security 70 For other members of the State pension fund, the estimate is reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 24000000 to NOK 23000000 614 Housing loan scheme of the State pension fund Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 5000000 from NOK 27000000 to NOK 32000000 90 Loans, estimates, are increased by: 4,200,000,000 from NOK 5 900000000 to NOK 10 10000000 634 Labour market measures 76 Measures for job seekers, may be transferred, reduced by: 15,000,000 from NOK 7 110 545000 to NOK 7095 545000 77 Permanent work, may be transferred, increased by: 15,000,000 from NOK 1503 905000 to NOK 1518 905000 640 Labour Inspectorate Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 25,000,000 from NOK 684 500000 to NOK 709 500000 660 War Pension 70 Grants, military, allocation of estimates, are reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 59000000 to NOK 58000000 71 Grants, civilians, estimates, are increased by: 1000000 from NOK 159000000 to NOK 160000000 664 Seafarer pension scheme 70 Grants increased by: 2000000 from NOK 37000000 to NOK 39000000 666 Retirement contract [[AFP]] Grants, estimates, are reduced by: 10000000 from NOK 2490000000 to NOK 2480000000 667 Supplementary social benefits for persons over 67 years of age 70 Grants, estimates, are reduced by: 15,000,000 from NOK 3450000000 to NOK 330000000 700 Ministry of Health and Welfare Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 4,900,000 from NOK 240 961000 to NOK 236 061000 701 E-health, health records, etc. 21 Special operating costs may be transferred, increased by: 62 400000 from NOK 468 181,000 to NOK 530 581 000 704 The Health Archive 21 Special operating costs may be transferred, increased by: 3,000,000 from NOK 46000000 to NOK 49000000 709 Patient and User Ombudsmen Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 2000000 from NOK 74 021 000 to NOK 72 021 000 710 Vaccines, etc. 21 Special operating costs may be transferred, increased by: 12 200000 from NOK 336 375000 to NOK 348 575000 714 Public health 60 Municipal actions, may be transferred, can be used under item 21, reduced by: 2,600,000 from NOK 93,013,000 to NOK 90,413,000 70 Drug action, etc., may be carried over, may be used under heading 21, increased by: 2000000 from NOK 130 477 000 to NOK 132 477 000 74 School fruit, etc., may be transferred, may be used under heading 21, increased by: 100000 000 from NOK 20 568 000 to NOK 120 568 000 732 Regional health establishments 70 Specific grants, may be carried over, may be used under headings 72, 73, 74 and 75, increased by: 50,000,000 from NOK 874 059 000 to NOK 924 059 000 72 Basic appropriations Health south-east RHF, may be carried over, increased by: 647,000,000 from NOK 53 571 938 000 to NOK 54 218 938 000 73 Basic appropriations Health West RHF, may be carried over, increased by: 227,000,000 from NOK 18 781 421,000 to NOK 19 008 421000 74 Basic appropriations Health Middle Norway RHF, may be carried over, increased by: 172,000,000 from NOK 14 270 445000 to NOK 14 442 445000 75 Basic appropriations Health Nord RHF, may be carried over, increased by: 154,000,000 from NOK 12 726 632,000 to NOK 12 880 632,000 76 Intervention-driven financing, forecasting, is increased by: 2500000 from NOK 37 843 728,000 to NOK 37 846 228 000 77 Laboratory and radiological studies, estimates, are reduced by: 111 500000 from NOK 3 119 112000 to NOK 3 007 612000 86 Operating credits shall be reduced by: 1,250,000,000 from NOK 3359000000 to NOK 2 159000000 740 Directorate for Health Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 500000 from NOK 1,212,918,000 to NOK 1,213,418 000 21 Special operating costs may be transferred, increased by: 5000000 from NOK 30 421000 to NOK 35 421000 744 Directorate for eHealth Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 23,000,000 from NOK 213 594 000 to NOK 236 594 000 21 Special operating costs may be transferred, increased by: 20,000,000 from NOK 150 992,000 to NOK 170 992,000 745 Public health institute Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 600 000 from NOK 1.044 831000 to NOK 1.045 431000 746 National Agency for Medicinal Products Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 5,083,000 from NOK 288 252,000 to NOK 293 335000 747 Directorate for Radiation Protection and Nuclear Safety Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 520000 from NOK 94 236 000 to NOK 99 486 000 21 Special operating costs may be transferred, reduced by: 3,200,000 from NOK 18 432 000 to NOK 15 232 000 748 National Health Supervisors Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 500000 from NOK 159 164 000 to NOK 153 664 000 761 Nursing services 21 Special operating costs, may be used under heading 79, increased by: 70000000 from NOK 191 641 000 to NOK 261 641 000 61 Host municipalities, increased by: 24000000 from NOK 934 778 000 to NOK 958 778 000 62 Daily activity offers, can be transferred, reduced by: 15,000,000 from NOK 347 998 000 to NOK 332 998 000 63 Investment grants — rehabilitating, transferable, can be used under heading 69, increased by: 39,825,000 from NOK 4 213 357 000 to NOK 4 253 182 000 65 Trials of state funding of care services, estimates, are reduced by: 166 790,000 from NOK 1 482 840000 to NOK 1 316 050000 69 Investment grants – net growth, may be transferred, increased by: 39 200000 from NOK 65 400000 to NOK 104 600 000 73 Special care needs are increased by: 30,000,000 from NOK 24 375 000 to NOK 54 375 000 762 Primary Health Service 21 Special operating costs, may be used under heading 70, reduced by: 640000 from NOK 121 688 000 to NOK 115 288 000 61 Prison health services are increased by: 283,000 from NOK 178 866 000 to NOK 179 149 000 765 Psychiatric and drug services 21 Special operating costs, may be carried over, may be used under item 72, increased by: 10 600 000 from NOK 108 523 000 to NOK 119 123 000 72 Voluntary work, etc., may be carried over, can be used under item 21, increased by: 2 100000 from NOK 402 142 000 to NOK 404 242 000 75 Violence and traumatic stress, may be transmitted, reduced by: 3,600,000 from NOK 220 039 000 to NOK 216 439 000 844 Cash support 70 Grants, estimates, are reduced by: 190 890,000 from NOK 1800 890 000 to NOK 1610000000 845 Child-rescue 70 Grants, estimates, are reduced by: 82,000,000 from NOK 15 872000000 to NOK 15 790000000 846 Family and growth measures 21 Special operating costs, may be carried over, may be used under item 61 and item 71, increased by: 5,400,000 from NOK 12 650000 to NOK 18 050000 50 The Norwegian Research Council, used under item 21, may be reduced by: 500000 from NOK 3218 000 to NOK 2718 000 61 National grant scheme against child poverty, can be used under item 71, reduced by: 4500000 from NOK 311 985000 to NOK 307 485000 854 Measures in the field of child protection 21 Special operating costs, may be used under heading 71, increased by: 14 900 000 from NOK 72 371000 to NOK 87 271000 50 Research and development are reduced by: 1500000 from NOK 17 631000 to NOK 16 131 000 71 Development and information, etc., may be used under heading 21, increased by: 4 100000 from NOK 36 058 000 to NOK 40 158 000 855 State administration of child protection Add User-ID Succeeded Operating expenditure, may be used under item 22 and item 60, increased by: 262,000,000 from NOK 3841 242 000 to NOK 4 103 242 000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Purchases of private child protection services may be used under item 1, increased by: 54,000,000 from NOK 2623 089 000 to NOK 2677 089 000 60 Reimbursement of municipal expenditure on child protection measures under item 1 may be reduced by: 64 000 000 from NOK 426 801000 to NOK 362 801000 856 Childcare centre for lone minor asylum seekers Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 15,000,000 from NOK 156 429 000 to NOK 141 429 000 865 Consumer policy measures 21 Special operating costs, may be carried over, may be used under item 50, reduced by: 180 000 from NOK 2 244 000 to NOK 2 064 000 70 Grants, may be used under item 21, increased by: 280 000 from NOK 1453 000 to NOK 1733 000 882 Cemeteries and cemeteries 61 Grants for peaceful and protective church buildings may be transferred, granted by: [[NY]] 20,000,000 900 Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries 21 Special operating costs may be transferred, reduced by: 6000000 from NOK 61 927,000 to NOK 55 927,000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Safe management of Norwegian nuclear waste and installations, can be transferred, can be used under cover. 929 heading 51 is increased by: 27 900 000 from NOK 70000000 to NOK 97 900 000 75 Grants to specific projects may be transferred, reduced by: 1500000 from NOK 8,045000 to NOK 6,545000 904 The Brønn Island Registers Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 20,000,000 from NOK 328 430000 to NOK 348 430000 909 Measures for employment of seafarers 73 Allowances for employment of seafarers, estimates, are increased by: 36,700,000 from NOK 1785000000 to NOK 1821 700000 911 Supervision of competition Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 650000 from NOK 110 450000 to NOK 116 950000 912 General Secretariat for Complaints Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 1 194,000 from NOK 19 550000 to NOK 20 744000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The subject of competition shall be increased by: 5,800,000 from NOK 247 000 to NOK 8 257 000 915 Council of Rules Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 3,000,000 from NOK 11000000 to NOK 8000000 917 Directorate for Fisheries Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 5,750,000 from NOK 404 350000 to NOK 410 100000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Fisheries research and monitoring, may be transmitted, increased by: 19 765 000 from NOK 70 966 000 to NOK 90 731000 919 Miscellaneous fishing purposes 60 Grants to municipalities and counties are increased by: 25 146 000 from NOK 519000000 to NOK 544 146 000 75 Subsidies for nutritional measures in fisheries may be transferred, increased by: 25,000,000 from NOK 26 800000 to NOK 51 800000 76 Grants for fisheries research may be transferred, reduced by: 7000000 from NOK 15000000 to NOK 8000000 922 Space activities 70 Quota of European Space Agency [[ESA]] 4,300,000 from NOK 215 375000 to NOK 219 675000 71 International space activities are increased by: 6,700,000 from NOK 465 250000 to NOK 471 950000 73 EU space programmes are reduced by: 124 630,000 from NOK 487 300000 to NOK 362,670000 95 Equity Space Norway AS, increased by: 60,000,000 from NOK 378 500000 to NOK 438 500000 923 Marine Research Institute Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 4,000,000 from NOK 644 800000 to NOK 640 800000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Fisheries research and monitoring, may be transmitted, increased by: 20,000,000 from NOK 150 530000 to NOK 170 530000 924 International cooperation and development programmes 70 Grants reduced by: 9 930 000 from NOK 16000000 to NOK 6070000 926 Marine Research Institute, research vessel Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 4,000,000 from NOK 184 450000 to NOK 188 450000 929 Institute of Energy Engineering This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Securing of nuclear installations, may be transmitted, increased by: 20,000,000 from NOK 40000000 to NOK 60000000 51 Grants for nuclear research, may be transferred, may be used under Chapter. 900 item 22, increased by: 114,000,000 from NOK 147000000 to NOK 261000000 935 Patent-controlled Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 4500000 from NOK 258 400000 to NOK 262 900 000 950 Management of state ownership 51 Loss provision, equity contributions to the Great Norwegian Spitsbergen Kulkkompani AS, are granted by: [[NY]] 43,000,000 52 Risk capital, Nysnø Climate investment AS, is increased by: 35,000,000 from NOK 140000000 to NOK 175000000 71 Grants for the depreciation of equity Electronic Chart Centre AS are granted by: [[NY]] 20,000,000 90 Capital deposits, Nysnø Climate investment AS, are increased by: 65 000 000 from NOK 260000000 to NOK 325000000 1100 Ministry of Agriculture and Food 45 Major equipment acquisitions and maintenance – ordinary administrative bodies, may be transferred, may be used under heading 50, reduced by: 2,600,000 from NOK 2 720 000 to NOK 120000 49 Purchases of real estate, by: [[NY]] 2,600,000 1112 Knowledge development and preparedness, etc. in the food field 50 The development of knowledge, knowledge dissemination and preparedness, the Veterinary Institute, shall be increased by: 30,000,000 from NOK 97 9776000 to NOK 127 976000 1137 Research and innovation 70 Innovation activities, etc., may be transferred, increased by: 3,000,000 from NOK 350000 to NOK 650000 71 The bioeconomy scheme, may be transferred, increased by: 25,000,000 from NOK 2832000 to NOK 27 832 000 1142 Directorate for Agriculture 77 Allowances for compensation in the event of the liquidation of the husbandry of fur animals may be transferred, granted by: [[NY]] 20,000,000 1148 Natural damage - claims 71 Natural damage — claims, allocation of estimates, increased by: 22 400000 from NOK 152 600 000 to NOK 175 000 1150 For the implementation of the agricultural agreement, etc. 71 Subsidies for claims, etc., estimated appropriations, are increased by: 525000 from NOK 43000000 to NOK 568000000 1300 Ministry of Transport Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 3,700,000 from NOK 185 911000 to NOK 182 211000 71 Aid for road safety purposes, etc., is increased by: 2500000 from NOK 69000000 to NOK 71 500000 1320 State Road Service Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 286 500000 from NOK 4 334 900 000 to NOK 4 621 400000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Operation and maintenance of highways, may be carried over, may be used under items 29 and 30, reduced by: 356 500000 from NOK 6 631 800000 to NOK 6275 300000 28 Traffic and vehicle surveillance may be transmitted, reduced by: 110,000,000 from NOK 2 179 500000 to NOK 2 069 500000 29 OPS projects, which may be transferred, may be used under item 30, be reduced by: 280,000,000 from NOK 1631 400000 to NOK 1351 400000 30 National road investments, transferable, may be used under item 22, item 29 and item 31, increased by: 910,000,000 from NOK 1255 200000 to NOK 13465 200000 31 Stitching highways, may be transferred, can be used under item 30, reduced by: 180 000 000 from NOK 1043 400000 to NOK 863 400000 73 Subsidies for reduced toll tariffs outside urban areas are increased by: 200000000 from NOK 531 400000 to NOK 731 400000 1321 New Roads AS 70 Grants to New Roads AS are reduced by: 4,000,000 from NOK 5431 900000 to NOK 5427 900000 1352 Railway Directorate Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 109 700 000 from NOK 468 500000 to NOK 358 800000 71 Purchases of infrastructure services — operation and maintenance, transferable, may be used under heading 72, item 73 and item 74, increased by: 263 500 000 from NOK 8 423 500000 to NOK 8 687 000 72 Purchases of infrastructure services — Investment planning, transferable, can be used under item 71 and item 73, reduced by: 511,000,000 from NOK 2 153000000 to NOK 1642000000 73 Purchases of infrastructure services — Investments, transferable securities, may be used under items 71, 72 and 74, increased by: 101,000,000 from NOK 9 988 700000 to NOK 10 089 700000 75 Contributions to the transfer of goods from road to rail, granted by: [[NY]] 60,000,000 1360 Coastal works 30 New installations and major maintenance may be transferred, increased by: 38,000,000 from NOK 378 500000 to NOK 416 500000 34 Compensation for increased employer's tax may be transferred, reduced by: 25 200000 from NOK 25 200000 to NOK 0 1370 Postal services 70 Purchases of postal and banking services may be transferred, reduced by: 30,000,000 from NOK 617 400000 to NOK 587 400000 1400 Ministry of Climate and Environment 71 International organisations, increased by: 1,800,000 from NOK 88 053 000 to NOK 89 853 000 1410 Knowledge of the climate and the environment 21 Environmental monitoring is reduced by: 2500000 from NOK 277 297 000 to NOK 274 797 000 1412 Meteorology purposes 50 The Meteorological Institute shall be increased by: 12 900 000 from NOK 313 882,000 to NOK 326 782,000 70 International cooperation projects are reduced by: 29 898 000 from NOK 172 566 000 to NOK 142 668 000 1420 Directorate for the Environment Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 5 112 000 from NOK 694 287 000 to NOK 699 399 000 61 Contributions to climate action and adaptation may be transferred, reduced by: 108 330,000 from NOK 208 230000 to NOK 99 900 000 63 Return arrangements for end-of-life recreational craft are reduced by: 10000000 from NOK 20000000 to NOK 10000000 75 Payments for wreckage and vehicle and recreational craft allowances, estimates, are reduced by: 85 992,000 from NOK 640 992,000 to NOK 555000000 76 Reimbursement schemes, estimates, are increased by: 26 536 000 from NOK 137 464 000 to NOK 164 000 81 Natural and cultural heritage, may be transferred, can be used under heading 21, increased by: 300000 from NOK 67,011000 to NOK 67,311000 85 Natural information centres, may be transferred, increased by: 2500000 from NOK 69,031000 to NOK 71,531000 1428 Reduced greenhouse gas emissions, energy conversion, energy and climate technologies 50 Transfer to the Climate and Energy Fund is increased by: 50,000,000 from NOK 3164 450000 to NOK 3 214 450000 1429 Riksantikvaren Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 2 067 000 from NOK 148 540000 to NOK 146 473 000 21 Special operating costs are increased by: 3,000,000 from NOK 37 719 000 to NOK 40 719 000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Conservation tasks, may be transferred, reduced by: 3,000,000 from NOK 24 708 000 to NOK 21 708 000 73 Subsidies for medieval and fire protection buildings and installations may be increased by: 1000000 from NOK 57 575 000 to NOK 58 575 000 1471 Norwegian Polar Institute Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 2,248,000 from NOK 242 376 000 to NOK 240 128 000 21 Special operating costs may be transferred, reduced by: 1 786 000 from NOK 77 243 000 to NOK 75 457 000 1473 Kings Bay AS 70 Grants increased by: 1 989,000 from NOK 30 270000 to NOK 32 259000 1600 Ministry of Finance Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 5000000 from NOK 390 800000 to NOK 385 800000 21 Special operating costs may be transferred, reduced by: 6,330,000 from NOK 90 900 000 to NOK 84 570000 1605 Directorate for Financial Management Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 50,000,000 from NOK 507 200000 to NOK 557 200000 1610 Customs duties 45 Major acquisitions and maintenance of equipment may be transferred, increased by: 12 200000 from NOK 90 200000 to NOK 102 400000 1618 Tax receipts Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 6,283,000 from NOK 6 062 100000 to NOK 6 055 817 000 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Major IT projects, may be transferred, reduced by: 58,000,000 from NOK 472 800000 to NOK 414 800000 23 Special operating costs, a scheme, are increased by: 3,800,000 from NOK 88 100000 to NOK 91 900 000 45 Major acquisitions and maintenance of equipment may be transferred, reduced by: 7000000 from NOK 115000000 to NOK 108000000 70 Grants increased by: 1500000 from NOK 350000 to NOK 5000000 1620 Statistical Central Bureau Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 2,400,000 from NOK 593 300000 to NOK 595 700000 1632 Compensation for VAT 61 Grants to municipalities and county councils, allocation of estimates, are increased by: 80000000 from NOK 24 600000000 to NOK 25 400000000 1633 Net scheme, State-paid VAT Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs, estimates, are increased by: 200000000 from NOK 6 600000000 to NOK 6 800000000 1651 Central government debt, repayments and redemptions 98 Deductions on domestic government debt, allocation of estimates, are reduced by: 12 414,000,000 from NOK 76 515 000 to NOK 64 101 000 000 1700 Ministry of Defence Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 39 822,000 from NOK 819 030 000 to NOK 858 852 000 21 Special operating costs, may be transferred, estimated appropriations, are reduced by: 48,779,000 from NOK 128 779 000 to NOK 80 000 000 71 Transfers to others, may be transferred, reduced by: 4,000,000 from NOK 66 346 000 to NOK 62 346 000 74 Transferability to a limited liability company may be transferred, granted by: [[NY]] 172,000,000 1710 Defence and new buildings and new installations 47 New buildings and new installations, can be transferred, can be used under cap. 1761 heading 47, reduced by: 100000 000 from NOK 2546 032 000 to NOK 2446 032 000 1720 Common Defence Capabilities Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 338 879 000 from NOK 9 217 413,000 to NOK 9 556 292 000 1731 Army Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 234 173 000 from NOK 5 566 035 000 to NOK 5 800 208 000 1732 Sea defence services Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 604 346,000 from NOK 4 389 630000 to NOK 4 993 976000 1733 Air Force Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 247 975 000 from NOK 5 292 845000 to NOK 5 540 820000 1734 Home Security Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 10,833,000 from NOK 1394 798 000 to NOK 1383 965 000 1735 Intelligence 21 Special operating costs are increased by: 17 807,000 from NOK 2 005 584 000 to NOK 2 023 391 000 1760 Defence and major acquisitions and maintenance Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be used under cap. 1760, entry 45, reduced by 61 434 000 from NOK 1629,765000 to NOK 1568,331,000 44 Joint financed investment, nationally financed share, may be transferred, reduced by: 26 200000 from NOK 83 185000 to NOK 56 985000 45 Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance, may be transferred, may be used under cover. 1761 heading 45, increased by: 33 431,000 from NOK 8 952 590000 to NOK 8 986 021000 48 Joint financed investments, co-financed share, may be transferred, reduced by: 152 889 000 from NOK 205000000 to NOK 52 111 000 1761 New base-solution fighter aircraft 47 New buildings and new installations, can be transferred, can be used under cap. 1710, heading 47, increased by: 100000 000 from NOK 1,176,449 000 to NOK 1,276,449 000 1790 Coast Guard Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 81 170 000 from NOK 1157 875000 to NOK 1076 705000 1791 Rescue helicopter service Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 44 639 000 from NOK 866 848 000 to NOK 911 487 000 1792 Norwegian forces abroad Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 2 599 000 from NOK 990 316 000 to NOK 992 915000 1800 Ministry of Oil and Energy 70 Grants to international organisations, etc.; is reduced by: 3,000,000 from NOK 10000000 to NOK 7000000 1820 Norwegian Watercourse and Energy Directorate 60 Grants for flood and step-by-step prevention, may be transferred, can be used under headings 22 and 72, increased by: 30,000,000 from NOK 66000000 to NOK 96000000 1830 Research and industrial development 70 Grants to Nordic Energy Research are reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 11000000 to NOK 10000000 1840 CO 2 management 72 Full scale CO 2 handling, can be transferred, can be used under heading 70, increased by: 150000000 from NOK 149000000 to NOK 299000000 2309 Random expense Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are reduced by: 673 400 000 from NOK 4 266 600 000 to NOK 3593 200000 2410 State Loan Fund for Education Add User-ID Succeeded Operating expenditure, may be used under item 45, increased by: 20,000,000 from NOK 392 941000 to NOK 412 941000 50 Appropriations for education and training grants, estimates, are increased by: 68 167 000 from NOK 7 170 151,000 to NOK 7 238 318 000 70 Training grants, allocation of estimates, are increased by: 435 443,000 from NOK 2983 362,000 to NOK 3418 805000 71 Other scholarships, allocation of estimates, reduced by: 29 740,000 from NOK 742 493 000 to NOK 712 753 000 72 Interest subsidies, estimates, are increased by: 25 510000 from NOK 12,255,776 000 to NOK 1,281,86 000 73 Depreciation, allocation of estimates, is increased by: 135 088 000 from NOK 602 006000 to NOK 737 094000 74 Loans losses are increased by: 1,300,000 from NOK 386 200000 to NOK 387 500000 90 Increases in loans and interest payable, estimate appropriations, are reduced by: 6479 000 from NOK 28 594 604 000 to NOK 28 588 125 000 2412 The Bank of Homes Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 2000000 from NOK 354 910000 to NOK 356 910000 45 Major acquisitions and maintenance of equipment may be transferred, increased by: 2000000 from NOK 38 844 000 to NOK 40 844 000 90 New loans, estimates, increased by 1,410,000 from NOK 14 33000000 to NOK 15 740000000 2421 Innovation Norway 50 Innovation – projects, funds, are increased by: 15,000,000 from NOK 507 746 000 to NOK 522 746 000 76 Environmental technologies, can be transferred, increased by: 100000 000 from NOK 565 500000 to NOK 665 500000 80 Nutrition measures on Svalbard, granted by [[NY]] 3,200,000 2440 Direct economic involvement of the country in the petroleum industry 30 Investments increased by: 2,000,000 from NOK 27000000 to NOK 29000000 2445 State-owned buildings 30 The design of barley may be transferred, reduced by: 22,000,000 from NOK 648 401,000 to NOK 626 401000 33 The continuation of ordinary construction projects may be transferred, increased by: 200000000 from NOK 2237 450000 to NOK 2437 450000 34 The continuation of user-funded construction projects may be transferred, increased by: 100000 000 from NOK 713000000 to NOK 813000000 2470 General government pension fund 24 Operating result: 1 Revenue, forecasting -652,695,000 2 Operating expenditure, estimate appropriations 448 822,000 3 Depreciation 130 606 000 4 Interest on the capital of the country 207,000 5 For investment purposes 55 645000 Sum: -17 415 000 2530 Parental carcass 70 Birth culls, estimates, are reduced by: 694,000,000 from NOK 19 174000000 to NOK 18 480000000 71 Distinguishing birth and adoption benefits, allocation of estimates, are reduced by: 67,000,000 from NOK 927000000 to NOK 860000 000 72 Parental leave payments, estimates, are reduced by: 5000000 from NOK 485000000 to NOK 480000000 73 In the event of adoption, the allocation of the estimates shall be reduced by: 7000000 from NOK 63000000 to NOK 56000000 2541 Day money 70 The daily allowance, estimated allocation, shall be reduced by: 1,053,000,000 from NOK 10 253000000 to NOK 9 20000000 2542 State guarantee on claims for wages and salaries in the event of bankruptcy, etc. 70 State guarantee on claims for wages and salaries in the event of bankruptcy etc., allocation of an estimate, is reduced by: 45,000,000 from NOK 890000 to NOK 8450000000 2620 Social benefits to a lonely mother or father 70 Transitional aid, allocation of estimates, is reduced by: 230 000 000 from NOK 1940000000 to NOK 1710000000 72 Social assistance for child care for single mother or father at work, allocation of estimates, is reduced by: 23,000,000 from NOK 170000000 to NOK 147000000 73 Supplementary and school-related social benefits, estimates, are reduced by: 19 700 000 from NOK 91 700000 to NOK 72 000 000 76 Contribution advance, increased by: 15 800000 from NOK 704 200000 to NOK 720 000 000 2650 Sykepenger 70 Sickness benefits for employees, etc., estimated appropriations are increased by: 110,000,000 from NOK 37 190 000 to NOK 37 300000 71 Sickness benefits for self-employed persons, estimated appropriations, are reduced by: 100000 000 from NOK 148000000 to NOK 1380000000 72 Nursing, training and care allowances, etc., estimates, are reduced by: 53 500000 from NOK 1000000 to NOK 946 500000 75 Holiday pay of sick pay, estimated amount, is increased by: 20,000,000 from NOK 2 080000000 to NOK 2 10000000 2651 Clearance of duties 70 Clearance of work, allocation of estimates, is reduced by: 2 160,000,000 from NOK 31 670000000 to NOK 29 510000000 71 Supplementary aid, estimated allocation, is reduced by: 47 600 000 from NOK 229 600 000 to NOK 182000000 72 Medical statements, reduced by: 35,000,000 from NOK 425000 to NOK 390000 2655 Disability 70 Disadvantages, estimates, are increased by: 1 540,000 from NOK 92 950000 to NOK 94 490000 75 Men’s compensation in the event of occupational injury, estimate appropriations, shall be reduced by: 16,000,000 from NOK 86000000 to NOK 70000000 76 Occupational injury prevention gml. legislation, allocation of estimates, shall be reduced by: 1000000 from NOK 41000000 to NOK 40000000 2661 Basic and auxiliary aid, aids, etc. 70 Basic aid, allocation of estimates, is reduced by: 21 600 000 from NOK 1761 600 000 to NOK 1740 000 71 Auxiliary services, estimate appropriations, increased by 25 300000 from NOK 1514 700000 to NOK 1540000000 73 Utilities, etc. in the course of work and training, reduced by: 4,000,000 from NOK 130000000 to NOK 126000000 74 Supplements to cars reduced by: 111 900 000 from NOK 846 900 000 to NOK 735000 75 Improvement of functionality, assistive devices, is reduced by: 29 600 000 from NOK 3 3 369 600 000 to NOK 3 340 000 77 Orthopaedic aids, reduced by: 67 300000 from NOK 1637 300000 to NOK 1570000000 78 Hearing aids, reduced by: 27,670,000 from NOK 737 670000 to NOK 71000000 79 Activity aids for persons over 26 years of age are increased by: 15,000,000 from NOK 50 450000 to NOK 65 450000 2670 Age 70 Basic pension, allocation of an estimate, is reduced by: 170,000,000 from NOK 75 740000000 to NOK 75 570000000 72 Pensions on income, estimates, are increased by: 10000000 from NOK 2730000000 to NOK 2740000000 73 Special supplements, pension supplements, etc., estimates, are increased by: 22,000,000 from NOK 6 158000000 to NOK 6 180000000 2680 Survivors 71 Supplementary pension, estimated appropriation, is increased by: 5000000 from NOK 805000000 to NOK 810000000 72 Special supplement, allocation of estimates, is reduced by: 2000000 from NOK 85000000 to NOK 83000000 2686 gravitational assistance 70 gravitational allowances, estimate appropriations, are increased by: 9000000 from NOK 1996000000 to NOK 205000000 2711 Specialist health services, etc. 70 Specialist assistance, increased by: 5000000 from NOK 2235000000 to NOK 2240000000 71 Psychological assistance, reduced by 10000000 from NOK 323000000 to NOK 313000000 72 Dental treatment, reduced by: 118 320 000 from NOK 2,318,320 000 to NOK 2,200,000 76 Private laboratories and X-ray institutes shall be increased by: 26,000,000 from NOK 1024000000 to NOK 1050000000 2751 Medicinal products n.e.c. 70 Medicinal products, increased by 79 200000 from NOK 9 310 800000 to NOK 9 390 000 71 Medical statements, increased by: 1000000 from NOK 7000000 to NOK 8000000 72 Medical consumables, reduced by: 32 100000 from NOK 2042 100000 to NOK 2 010 000 2752 Reimbursement of self-payment 70 Self-proprietary Tier 1 is reduced by: 44 200000 from NOK 5 214 200000 to NOK 5 170 000 71 Self-proprietary Tier 2 is reduced by: 19,000,000 from NOK 1014000000 to NOK 995000000 2755 Health services in municipalities etc. 62 Remuneration scheme physiotherapists, may be used under heading 71, increased by: 16,000,000 from NOK 413000000 to NOK 429000000 70 General medical care, reduced by 124 600 000 from NOK 5 274 600 000 to NOK 5150000000 71 Physiotherapy, may be used under heading 62, is increased by: 45,000,000 from NOK 1,180000000 to NOK 1,225000000 72 Nursing aid, increased by: 2000000 from NOK 61000000 to NOK 63000000 73 Chiropractor therapy is increased by: 5000000 from NOK 174000000 to NOK 179000000 75 Logopedic and orthopaedic treatments are increased by: 4,000,000 from NOK 164000000 to NOK 168000000 2756 Other health services 70 Health services in other EEA countries are increased by: 3,000,000 from NOK 13000000 to NOK 16000000 71 Health services abroad etc. are reduced by: 90 000 000 from NOK 490000 to NOK 400000 72 Health services to non-residents, etc., are reduced by: 20,000,000 from NOK 240000000 to NOK 220000000 2790 Other health measures 70 Contributions reduced by 4,900,000 from NOK 254,900000 to NOK 250000000 3225 Basic training measures 4 Reimbursement of ODA-approved expenditure, increased by: 7,231,000 from NOK 19 734 000 to NOK 26 965 000 3288 International cooperation actions 4 Reimbursement of ODA-approved expenditure, reduced by: 587,000 from NOK 5698 000 to NOK 511000 3292 Norwegian and community education for adult immigrants Add User-ID Succeeded Norwegian receipt training, ODA-approved expenditure, is increased by: 1,800,000 from NOK 24 185000 to NOK 25 985000 3400 Ministry of Justice and Defence 2 Reimbursement of ODA-approved expenditure, granted by [[NY]] 1000000 3410 Courts of Justice 4 Protective matters for the courts of land change are reduced by: 3,043,000 from NOK 5 916 000 to NOK 2 873 000 3440 Police Directorate - the Police and Len’s Seat 2 Reimbursements, etc., are reduced by: 19 400000 from NOK 280 624 000 to NOK 261 224 000 6 Fee — Foreign affairs, reduced by: 14 770,000 from NOK 282 259 000 to NOK 267 489 000 8 Reimbursements from the EU Border and Visa Fund are increased by: 4,700,000 from NOK 21 258 000 to NOK 25 958 000 3456 Emergency and emergency communication services Add User-ID Succeeded Subscription income, reduced by 1 600 000 from NOK 347 305000 to NOK 345 705000 4 Reimbursements of major equipment acquisitions and maintenance are increased by: 95,000,000 from NOK 9 623 000 to NOK 104 623 000 3490 Directorate for Foreign Affairs Add User-ID Succeeded Assisted return from Norway for asylum seekers with refusal, ODA-approved expenditure, is reduced by: 1,084 000 from NOK 1845000 to NOK 761000 3 Travel expenses for refugees to and from abroad, ODA-approved expenditure, are increased by: 10 371,000 from NOK 13 255 000 to NOK 23 626 000 4 Asylum recipients, ODA-approved expenditure, are increased by: 101 247 000 from NOK 279 091000 to NOK 380 338 000 5 Reimbursement income, reduced by: 1 899 000 from NOK 8 862 000 to NOK 6 963 000 6 Protection for refugees outside Norway, etc., ODA-approved expenditure, is increased by: 9 149 000 from NOK 11 917,000 to NOK 21 066 000 7 Interpretation and translation, ODA-approved expenditure, is reduced by: 1 678 000 from NOK 14 604000 to NOK 12 926000 8 International migration and reintegration in the home country, ODA-approved expenditure, is reduced by: 15 792,000 from NOK 55 128 000 to NOK 39 336 000 3595 Staten Kartsverk 2 Sales and subscriptions, etc., increased by 9,200,000 from NOK 134 668 000 to NOK 143 868 000 3605 The seat of employment and welfare Add User-ID Succeeded Administrative allowances are increased by: 1,140 000 from NOK 9 260000 to NOK 10 400000 6 Fee income for the determination of contributions is reduced by: 2,300,000 from NOK 27 600 000 to NOK 25 300000 3614 Housing loan scheme of the State pension fund Add User-ID Succeeded Fee income, loans, is increased by: 5000000 from NOK 23000000 to NOK 28000000 90 Repayment of loans increased by: 200000000 from NOK 10 900000000 to NOK 11 10000000 3635 Wages and salaries, etc. Add User-ID Succeeded Reimbursement of State activities, etc., is increased by: 1000000 from NOK 8000000 to NOK 9000000 3704 The Health Archive 2 Miscellaneous revenue, by [[NY]] 3,000,000 3740 Directorate for Health 5 Health services to non-residents, etc., are increased by: 12,000,000 from NOK 63000000 to NOK 75000000 3747 Directorate for Radiation Protection and Nuclear Safety 2 Miscellaneous income, reduced by 2,900,000 from NOK 19 831,000 to NOK 16 931000 4 Fee revenue, increased by: 230000 from NOK 9 151,000 to NOK 11 501000 3855 State administration of child protection 60 Local authorities, increased by: 50,000,000 from NOK 1437 256 000 to NOK 1487 256 000 3906 Directorate for Mineral Management with the Bergmeister for Svalbard 86 Infringement fee and periodic penalty payment, granted by [[NY]] 1000000 3912 General Secretariat for Complaints 2 Reimbursements and other income are increased by: 194,000 from NOK 206 000 to NOK 400000 87 Infringement fee, increased by: 4,140 000 from NOK 100000 to NOK 4 240 000 3917 Directorate for Fisheries Add User-ID Succeeded Reimbursements and miscellaneous income are increased by: 5,747,000 from NOK 103 000 to NOK 5850 000 3935 Patent-controlled 4 Miscellaneous income, by [[NY]] 4500000 3940 Internationalisation measures 70 Refunds from the Baltic Investment Programme, granted by: [[NY]] 6,700,000 3950 Management of state ownership 91 Depreciation of equity Electronic Chart Centre AS, granted by [[NY]] 20,000,000 4352 Railway Directorate Add User-ID Succeeded Payments to Norwegian Railway School and Norwegian Railway Museum are reduced by: 96 200000 from NOK 98 600 000 to NOK 2 400000 4481 Sale of climate allowances Add User-ID Succeeded Sales income, reduced by: 2 565,000,000 from NOK 7 181 722 000 to NOK 4 616 722 000 4605 Directorate for Financial Management Add User-ID Succeeded Economic services are increased by: 50,000,000 from NOK 51 600 000 to NOK 101 600 000 4610 Customs duties 4 Miscellaneous reimbursements, increased by: 570000 from NOK 1 100000 to NOK 6 800000 4618 Tax receipts 86 Fines, withdrawals, etc., shall be reduced by: 50,000,000 from NOK 1430000000 to NOK 1380000000 88 Delay fee, Accounting Register, is reduced by: 37 600 000 from NOK 262 600 000 to NOK 225 000 4620 Statistical Central Bureau 85 The periodic penalty payment shall be reduced by: 10000000 from NOK 25000000 to NOK 15000000 4700 Ministry of Defence Add User-ID Succeeded Revenue is increased by: 14 420,000 from NOK 25,745000 to NOK 40,165000 4720 Common Defence Capabilities Add User-ID Succeeded Revenue is increased by: 705 772 000 from NOK 517 737 000 to NOK 1,223 509 000 4731 Army Add User-ID Succeeded Revenue is increased by: 7 326,000 from NOK 91 984 000 to NOK 99 310000 4734 Home Security Add User-ID Succeeded Revenue is increased by: 13 515,000 from NOK 5 766 000 to NOK 19 281000 4760 Defence and major acquisitions and maintenance Add User-ID Succeeded Revenues are reduced by: 2908 000 from NOK 33 090 000 to NOK 30 182 000 45 Larger equipment acquisition and maintenance, revenue, by [[NY]] 34 460,000 48 Jointly financed investments, income, are reduced by: 150 600 000 from NOK 205 036 000 to NOK 54 436 000 4791 Rescue helicopter service Add User-ID Succeeded Revenue is increased by: 45,000,000 from NOK 774 747 000 to NOK 819 747 000 4800 Ministry of Oil and Energy 2 Miscellaneous revenue, by [[NY]] 1,300,000 5310 State Loan Fund for Education 4 Reimbursement of ODA-approved expenditure, increased by: 2,570 000 from NOK 18 530000 to NOK 21 100000 29 Appointment fee, reduced by 6,700,000 from NOK 16 892,000 to NOK 10 192 000 89 Pure fees, increased by: 5,024,000 from NOK 105,016 000 to NOK 110,040000 90 Reduced loans and interest payable are increased by: 253,759,000 from NOK 10 776 474 000 to NOK 11 030 233 000 93 Conversion of training loans into scholarships is increased by: 48 097 000 from NOK 6 999 551 000 to NOK 7047 648 000 5325 Innovation Norway 50 Return from a nationwide innovation scheme is increased by: 690000 from NOK 15000000 to NOK 21 900 000 85 Recovery of depreciated loans from seed capital funds, granted by: [[NY]] 600 000 91 Returned capital, Seed Fund, is increased by: 8,200,000 from NOK 10000000 to NOK 18 200000 5329 Export Credit Scheme 71 Refunds from Export Credit Norway AS are granted by: [[NY]] 22,000,000 5341 Deductions on outstanding receivables 98 Deductions on own-account government bonds, reduced by: 4,000,000 from NOK 8000000 to NOK 4000000 5351 Transfer from Norway’s Bank 85 Transfer, increased by 2 798 300000 from NOK 12000000 to NOK 14 798 300000 5440 Direct economic involvement of the country in the petroleum industry 24 Operating result: 1 Revenue 159 200,000 2 Operating costs -27 400,000,000 3 Expenses of exploration and field development -2 100000 000 4 Depreciation -20 200 000 000 5 Interest on the capital of the country -2 900 000 000 Sum: 106 600000000 30 Depreciation reduced by: 1 900 000 000 from NOK 22 10000000 to NOK 20 20 20000000 5490 NVE Facility Add User-ID Succeeded Sale of equipment, etc., increased by: 1 400000 from NOK 100000 to NOK 1500000 5491 Depreciation of the capital of the State in the course of its business operations 30 Depreciation increased by: 350000 from NOK 1574 406 000 to NOK 1577 906 000 5521 Value added tax 70 Value added tax, increased by: 572,000,000 from NOK 31000000 to NOK 310 572000000 5526 Charge on alcohol 70 Taxes on alcohol are increased by: 64 500000 from NOK 14 200000000 to NOK 14 264 500000 5531 Taxes on tobacco products, etc. 70 Taxes on tobacco products, etc., are increased by: 205,000,000 from NOK 6 600000000 to NOK 6 805000000 5536 Fee on motor vehicles, etc. 71 One-off fee, reduced by: 14,000,000 from NOK 14 641000000 to NOK 14 627000000 5541 Tax on electricity 70 Tax on electricity, reduced by: 10000000 from NOK 11 010000000 to NOK 11000000 5570 Sectoral charges under the Ministry of Local Government and Modernisation 70 Sectoral charges National communication authority reduced by: 3,900,000 from NOK 243 400000 to NOK 239 500000 5574 Sectoral charges under the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries 74 Fisheries research fee, increased by: 24000000 from NOK 236 496 000 to NOK 260 496 000 5578 Sectoral Fees under the Ministry of Climate and Environment 72 Fish fees, increased by: 1000000 from NOK 19000000 to NOK 20000000 5603 Interest on the capital of the State in the course of its business operations 80 Interest on the country's fixed capital is reduced by: 100000 from NOK 93 507 000 to NOK 93 407 000 5607 Interest of the housing loan scheme in the State pension fund 80 Interest, increased by: 85,000,000 from NOK 963000000 to NOK 1048000000 5611 NSB AS shares 85 Dividends increased by: 8,000,000 from NOK 225000000 to NOK 233000000 5617 Interest of the State Loan Fund for Education 80 Interest, reduced by 5,747,000 from NOK 4,857,196 000 to NOK 4,851,449 000 5622 Shares in Avinor AS 85 Dividends increased by: 72 400000 from NOK 512 500000 to NOK 584 900 000 5625 Interest and dividends from Innovation Norway 81 The interest margin, the Innovation Loan Facility, is increased by: 4500000 from NOK 20000000 to NOK 24 500000 85 Dividends, the low-risk loan scheme, are increased by: 27,700,000 from NOK 125000000 to NOK 152 700 000 88 Return of dividends from seed capital funds granted by: [[NY]] 3,000,000 5631 Shares in AS Vinmonopolet 85 The State’s surplus share is increased by: 87 100000 from NOK 41 200000 to NOK 128 300000 86 Dividends increased by: 3000 from NOK 2000 to NOK 5000 5652 Landskog SF - interest and dividends 85 Dividends increased by: 55 250000 from NOK 24 750000 to NOK 80000000 5656 Shares under the administration of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries 85 Dividends increased by: 1,362,100,000 from NOK 21 635 500000 to NOK 22 997 600 000 5680 Statnett SF 85 Dividends increased by: 41,000,000 from NOK 443000000 to NOK 484000000 5685 Equinor ASA shares 85 Dividends increased by: 2,850,000 from NOK 16 620000 to NOK 19 470000000 5692 Dividends of the capital of the State in the Nordic Investment Bank 85 Dividends reduced by: 28 900 000 from NOK 112,700000 to NOK 83,800000 5700 Revenue of the public sector 71 Social security contributions are reduced by: 5000000 from NOK 150 681 000 to NOK 150 676 000 5701 Miscellaneous income 71 Reimbursement in the event of occupational injury shall be reduced by: 165 500000 from NOK 940000 to NOK 774 500000 86 Recovery of errors, increased by: 55,000,000 from NOK 1150000000 to NOK 1205000000 87 Miscellaneous income, reduced by 7,750,000 from NOK 26 950000 to NOK 19 200000 88 Emergency centres, etc., are increased by: 5000000 from NOK 63000000 to NOK 68000000 5704 State guarantee for claims for wages and salaries in the event of bankruptcy 70 Dividends, reduced by 30,000,000 from NOK 230000000 to NOK 200000000 5705 Reimbursement of daily allowances 70 Reimbursement of daily allowances, State guarantee in the event of bankruptcy, is reduced by: 13,000,000 from NOK 26000000 to NOK 13000000 71 Reimbursement of daily allowances for frontier workers, etc. living in Norway, reduced by: 500000 from NOK 800000 to NOK 300000 ‘... Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The decision of the Grand Duchy on the levy on tobacco products, etc. in Section 1, the first paragraph is replaced by the following: As from 1 July 2019, it shall be subject to Law No 19 May 1933. 11 on excise duties paid to the central bank on imports and domestic production of the following goods with the following amounts:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e74412	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 8-12, from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. 8 sounds: «The government is asked by the government to make necessary changes to the rules or practices, to ensure the functioning of the redundancy system in line with the Law on Social Security § 1-1 [[Subject matter]] Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asked to amend the regulation on country-by-country reporting in order to provide expanded information in line with annual accounts and irrespective of the materiality limit.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up its own climate risk forecast, based inter alia on NOU 2018:17, and to return to Stortinget with such a notification by spring 2020 at the latest.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government in the draft state budget for 2020 to make proposals on how to achieve the target of 100 p.m. of the new car sales in 2025 are zero-emission cars.» Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to provide an additional task to the working group set up to assess and review the veteran compensation schemes to investigate the reasons for the increase in the rate of refusal in compensation cases for personnel who have suffered psychological damage in foreign operations.’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e74449	There is a vote on proposal No. 7 from the Workers' Party, the Center Party and Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that the allocation of the OPS project rv. 3/rev. 25 Ommangsvollen–Grundset/Basthjørnet in Hedmark, 150 million. kronor, is used to increase the country’s share of the project so that the cost reduction benefits the drivers by reducing the toll share.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e74464	There is a vote on proposal No. 2. from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for proposals to introduce a registration obligation for non-resident service providers, seconded and self-employed persons performing work in Norway. The proposal shall include information on the place of work, the period of time and the persons carrying out the work.’;» The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e74482	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3–6, from the Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to maintain the earmarked aid to the Army against nuclear weapons of 2 million. crowns for 2019.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that there are no restrictions in the compensation schemes on compensation for personnel who have suffered psychological damage in foreign operations.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the conditions for the merger for the North University are respected and followed up.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make adjustments in the financing model to the short-term arrangements at public higher education schools in line with the input of the Swedish National Higher Education Council and that the funding of the short-term courses is continued in line with this also after 1 January 2021.’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e74514	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is requested by the government at the latest in the context of the State budget for 2020 to provide the Storting with a decision-making basis on alternative financing models for the capture, transport and storage of CO 2, which can generate profitability for new projects and how the alternative funding models can also contribute to the financing of the full-scale project in question.’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e74532	There is a vote on proposal No. 35, from the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to amend broadcasting regulations so that football World Cup and football-EM for women are regarded as events of major social importance, in line with other similar sporting events, and to be guaranteed free of charge’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e91077	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e92754	It is added over A III and XXX. The central party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e92768	It's over A XVI. Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e92782	It is votted over A XXVII and XXXII. The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e92796	It's being voted on by A XXIX. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e92810	It is added over other Roman numerals under A, and over B a, b, c, and d.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e92832	The centre party and Red have announced support for the setting. The President assumes that the Socialist Left and the Greens will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e92844	The President will propose to report. St. 2 for 2018-2019 is annexed to the Protocol. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-21.ana.ud427e93121	Before the meeting is closed, the President will draw the attention of the representatives to the fact that the negotiations of the Grand Duchy will be resumed on Monday 30 September at 9.30 a.m. 13th@item: inlistbox Since this is the last ordinary grand meeting before the holiday, the President will take the opportunity to thank all the co-representatives, members of the government, the staff of the Stortinge, the press department and all those who otherwise have their daily work here in Stortinget, for good cooperation and wish everyone a really good summer. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? So it doesn't seem, and the meeting is cancelled.
