ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e28	A number of permit applications are available: from the representatives of Willfred Nordlund and Eirik Sivertsen on leave from 4 March to 6 March, both in order to take part in a trip with the Swedish delegation for Arctic Parliamentary Cooperation, to the Church and Murmansk from the representatives of Helge André Njåstad, Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen and Ove Trellevik on leave from 3 March to 9 March, all to take part in the mission of the European Parliamentary Partnership Asia-Europe, ASEP, to Singapore and Indonesia from the Central Party Group on the Permit of the Representative Emilie Enger Mehl from 5 March to 7 March to take part in the election as an observer for the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly before the elections in Ukraine On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Hedmark County: Per Martin Sandtrøen 5.–7. March For the state of Hordaland: Sigurd Hille 5–7. March and Laila Reiertsen 5–7. March For the county of Nordland: Kjell-Idar Juvik 5–6. March and Kari Anne Bøkestad Andreassen 5–6. March For Telemark County: Olav Urbø 5.–7. March
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e101	The representative, Lise Christoffersen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e106	On behalf of Hadia Tajik, Arild Grande, Eigil Knutsen and myself, I would like to submit a proposal for a representative on the need for new exemptions and decision-making procedures in respect of the limitation of the duration of the period of redundancy, under the second and third paragraphs of § 11-12.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e111	The representative, Martin Henriksen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e116	On behalf of the representatives of Cecilie Myrseth, Nils Kristen Sandtrøen, Kirsti Leirtrø, Øystein Langholm Hansen, Terje Aasland and myself, I would like to present a proposal for a representative to maintain today's tasks and regional structure in the Veterinary Institute. I want to add that we hope that it can be processed quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e123	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e139	On Monday, the Stortinge received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State of Oluk V. Bollestad, Jan Tore Sanner and Bent Höie will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We start with the first main questions, from the representative of Ingvild Kjerkol.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e148	My question goes to Minister of Health Bent Höie. Yesterday, the Council of State put forward a legislative proposal to tighten the right to self-determination in the abortion law. The proposal envisages that all foetal-reduction requests should be dealt with in the subject of abortion, i.e. that the right to self-determination should not apply before week 12 in the case of foetal-reduction, as at present. The Ministry’s consultation notes also gave some guidance on the subject matter. It reads as follows: «The fact that a woman is pregnant with twins and will receive care for two children will not in itself lead to compliance with the conditions set out in point (b). It will not be sufficient to demonstrate that the burden of care is greater for twins than for one child.’ As I and many people read this, it means that if a woman thinks that the burden of care for twins is too high, it's not enough to give birth control. After the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health have repeatedly assured the Stortinget that women’s self-determination should not be weakened by a change in the abortion law, the opposite is true. My question to the Council of State will then be: Will the government with this proposal legislate a principle that you can do one, then you can do two?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e162	The answer to that is no, and I expect that when the representative uses the statement, it refers to a statement that the Minister for Children has complained about. I do not think it serves the debate to use the statement afterwards, when it is regrettable. The wording is related to the fact that being pregnant with twins does not in itself provide a basis for foetal reduction. You have to meet the criteria that are in place today to get abortion granted after week 12. As the representative is aware, foetal reduction is not carried out in Norway until after 12 weeks. What this bill implies is that these abortions will be carried out and evaluated on the basis of exactly the same criteria as all the other abortions in Norway carried out after week 12. There are, among other things: questions related to the woman’s life situation a basis for abortion. This means, for example: that if the woman has more children already and feels that having two more children is an additional burden, there will be something that the teacher can focus on. It is also very clear that abortion students should also pay attention to the woman's own assessment of the life situation in these cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e169	I think it is very good to complain about flaked statements. Politicians should not be assessed solely on the basis of what they say – although it is also important when standing in a position of power – they should be assessed on the basis of what they do. So now, the Minister of Health is proposing a legal text that says that in the case of twins, there are two things that we're talking about. You're going to treat it as an ordinary abortion, it's going to be the same reason for getting it granted in an abortion subject. The only difference is that if it had been one, you would have decided this yourself. So what's the difference between what the Council of State puts forward in the law, and what's the flaked statement from his government colleague Kjell Ingolf Ropstad?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e178	No, abortions in Norway after week 12 do not decide for yourself. It is absolutely right that we now remove the right to self-determined foetal reduction, a right that has been practised in Norway for a short period of time – since 2016 and until now. What we are doing is what the professional community that is implementing this type of foetal reduction has asked, namely to ensure that all of these, for whatever reason or reason, are treated in an abortion subject, in line with other abortions carried out after week 12. These abortions are currently being carried out under a dispensation provision that was actually intended for other situations. One also ensures that women receive the same information and guidance, regardless of the background. The fact that you are pregnant with twins does not in itself provide a basis for granting birth control. One has to meet the other criteria, the same criteria that one today has to meet in order to be granted late.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e187	It opens for follow-up questions – first Ingvild Kjerkol.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e192	What's the difference here is that if you're going to take away one, you're going to have to consider either way. If you want to remove two, the woman can decide for herself until 12 weeks. I think that ethically speaking, it is very difficult for these women, who are in a particularly demanding situation, to understand the ethical reflection of the Council of State that the legislator shows. I'll ask the question a little bit differently. The government's proposal specifies that the denominator may deal with foetal reduction applications before week 12, even if the intervention takes place mainly after week 12. In such an examination, the woman will still have the opportunity to complete the entire pregnancy, i.e. abortion of both foetuses. In cases where the woman is rejected in the name of week 12 before, does the Council of State consider it ethically right that the woman be confronted with the choice – within her self-determined right – that she must either remove both or none? That's: you can do one, you can do two.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e199	No, it's just about recognising that this is a difficult question for the individual woman. If we hadn't opened up these applications before week 12, the woman had just been put in the situation that she had to take the chance to consider for herself what would be the answer from the denominator, or had to have committed self-determined abortions, for example. Both of you. Now the woman gets an answer before the limit of self-determined abortion. This means that if the woman wants to apply for foetal reduction by twins, she gets an answer before the limit of self-determined abortion. If she is dissatisfied with the answer from the denominator, she herself stands in the option situation if she wants to end her pregnancy or not. This just makes the woman, in a situation where it is predictable, not in that predicament.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e206	Ingvild Kjerkol – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e211	I would like to ask the Council of State questions about multiples. The proposed change does not distinguish between twins and multiples. In multiples, vills and vills, there is a significant reduction in the risk of removing foetuses. This is not disputed among the professionals. It is in the consultation note that the Council of State is responsible for. When it may be more possible for a woman to complete a pregnancy by performing a multiple reduction — why is the woman less able to assess this herself than a denominator? As the proposal has now been presented, all multiplicity reductions will be addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e221	Well, there's a distinction between twin captivity and vibrational and quaternary captivity in the law and in the preliminary work that has now been sent to the hearing. However, there has just highlighted that the risk of premature birth and spontaneous abortion for all in themselves is a basis for foetal reduction. That means that is a pregnant with quails, one could get granted reduction to twins without satisfying any of today's requirements for latent, precisely on the grounds that having quails is an increased risk of spontaneous abortion and premature birth. By dealing with all these matters in the same way as the professional community that is doing this today has wanted, a woman ensures a common and equal information in these cases, such as: in the case of convicts, where these questions are much more uncertain than in the case of fornunciation, the same information is provided. The woman can then very clearly assess herself whether she wants to seek foetal reduction or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e226	The Bears of Moxnes - for follow-up questioning.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e231	Neither Höie nor I will ever have to make this choice ourselves – therefore we should listen extra carefully and be extra humble and listen to them, namely Norwegian women. Until now, they have also had self-determination in matters of foetal reduction as long as they have made up their mind before week 12. So now the government's proposal is to remove this right. It shall be sent to a hearing with a very short period of time – only in one and a half months. Nevertheless, the Council of State will have a good opportunity to listen to Norwegian women. I wonder where Bent Höie will be on March 8th – whether he is willing to meet up, to listen and also to turn if there are record mobilizations for women's right to self-determination, and to listen to the arguments that come from a collective Norwegian women's movement that day?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e240	Firstly, I would like to stress that when I took over as Minister of Health in 2013, this was an unsolved question in the drawer. The professional community that does this, meeting these dilemmas, which meet these women, addressed the Health Directorate in 2009 for answers to the question. The Health Directorate addressed the Ministry of Health in 2010. The Labour Party Councils that were then sitting, on an ongoing basis, did not respond to this. Former Minister of Health Jonas Gahr Støre put this issue in place for a year without responding to the question. When I took over, I took hold of this and got it clarified. There has been a legal interpretation since 2016 that has opened up to self-determined foetal reduction in Norway. This was not part of the original discussion on the adoption of the abortion law. As I understand it, the parole on March 8th will be removing the abortion topics – it's a completely different discussion. That's a point of view I'm very disagreeable with.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e247	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e252	My question goes to the Minister of Health. Today, there is a giant tomany in the Norwegian hospital sector. It applies in the north where Norway's largest health care establishments, Finnmark Hospital, are to become even larger and to be placed under the University Hospital Nord-Norway. It will be responsible for driving the hospital across a huge geographical area. The proposal came as lightning from the clear sky in the government platform, without any announcement or involvement. Gigantomania we also see here in Oslo. Oslo University Hospital is currently Norway's largest health care centre with more than 23 000 added. The Minister of Health has approved to lay down Ullevål Hospital, Norway's largest emergency hospital, sell the plot to property developers and build hospital blocks that are almost 80 meters high in the square outside the Rikshospitale. The plans are unrealistic, both economic, professional and regulatory. Saka started in 2012 when Managing Director Bjørn Erikstein had a vision to put roundabout 3 in the tunnel and collect all hospital operations in Oslo at Gaustad. It was the State Road Service that stopped the plans, but the giant tomato kept going. The OUS lead presented today's plan to shut down Ullevål and move the activity to Gaustad and Aker. This solution has not been on your listener. One has not developed a business plan, and the board of Health South-East has agreed that further use of Ullevål should now be highlighted – an outline that is completely unexplained. My question to the Minister of Health is: Is it consistent with good planning to draw up a hospital plan for the people of Oslo without a clear plan of action and without one following the state's own counsellor for hospital construction projects, and what does the Minister of Health put in the outline 'lighten'?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e265	First to Finnmark: This government has made sure that we get a very modern and up-to-date specialist health service in Finnmark, which is the country's most decentralised. We've recently opened a new hospital in Kirkenes. The government has given a clear signal for the construction of a new hospital in Hammerfest. We're building Clinic Alta, and we're building Sami health park. It means a significant boost for specialist health services decentralised in Finnmark, and not least there are significant numbers of specialist health services decentralised at the Alta Clinic for a large population. That's exactly what we're going to take care of and make sure that's sustainable. We have to do that in a state like Finnmark. As far as Oslo is concerned, it is quite right that there was a giant tomani in 2012. I would like to remind you that I was not the Minister of Health in 2012. I put an effective stop to those plans. It was totally unrealistic and unnecessary that Norway should have the largest hospital in Northern Europe. It wouldn't fit into our structure. Those plans were stopped. My decision was that we should build a new emergency hospital on Aker, that we should keep the Radium Hospital as a national cancer hospital, and that we should build a common regional hospital on Gaustad. The hospital is about the same size as the Western Regional Hospital and the Central Norway Regional Hospital, although it covers a significantly larger population. This isn't gigantomania. This is precisely to take the population development in Oslo seriously and ensure that the population of Oslo also gets a hospital building that is on the level of what one finds in the rest of the country, and not least because the professional environments working there get the environment in which it is possible to work. What we're seeing now is, for example, that this solution means that we are now building a new clinic building on the Radium Hospital, which was not possible in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e272	Governments say when it comes to the OYS, what happens is to take people's needs for hospital services seriously. But then it should be borne in mind to the Council of State that a collective trade union community and its organizations are strongly protesting against the plans. They're worried that a man is breaking up Norway's largest emergency hospital. The acute and trauma environment has said about the plans that they think this is most likely to weaken disaster preparedness in the region. And it's not just the trauma environment that protests – one will get a maternity ward in Aker with 10,000 births a year without a newborn intensive care unit. There was a torch last week. All protest: The Association of Doctors, the Association of Psychologists, the Association of Midwives, the Association of Nurses, the Association of Trades. The question is how the Minister of Health can stand here and defend a fragmentation of the trade union environment and a closure of Ullevål, when a collective trade union environment comes with such strong warnings.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e279	No, these plans involve a collection of the professional community, a collection of the top-notch professional community that is currently at Ullevål and at the Rikshospitalet. It's very important for Oslo's population, because today Oslo's population is experiencing a very serious illness, that they could risk being transported between Ullevål and the Rikshospitale. This is very unfortunate for the quality of treatment. In addition, it means that we need to have double watch teams, with some of the most highly specialized functions and the most highly specialized competence we have in Norway. It also affects the rest of the country – and Kjersti Toppe should be concerned about it – because it means that one has an accumulation of the highly specialised competence in Oslo because one has shared the professional environment in two. This means that other hospitals in Norway, other university and regional hospitals, are struggling to recruit the same type of competence. Now it brings together the competence. Then it is true that the emergency response to the new hospital in Gaustad is somewhat less than that at Ullevål today, but I realized that the representative was critical of gigantomani, and then one should not be critical of that solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e286	It opens for follow-up questions - first Kjersti Toppe.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e291	I thought a minister of health in Norway should listen to a collective trade union environment. What worries us about the rest of the country is funding. For funding, unrealistic demands are made both for operational efficiency improvement in advance and for profit-reduction in retrospect. One should calculate a gain realization of 1.4 billion. After this is done, 2 billion kroner. kr in phase 2 and in operational efficiency improvement add up to a cut of the corresponding 600 years' work before the construction is completed. In governance matters, the board itself says that this is very vulnerable, and in external quality assurance it is said that there is considerable uncertainty about both investment costs and operating economic gains. Can the Minister of Health tell Stortinget that this is an economically viable project? And can he guarantee that one reaches operational efficiency without harming patients?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e297	The representative now addresses some of the questions that are being addressed in Health South-East and Oslo University Hospitals to their board meeting in June. Then a few further answers will be given. But at least what's clear from the number material that you have now is that both the zero option, that is, continue as it is now, and the gathering of the Rikshospital and Ullevål on the Ullevål property, is clearly less economically sustainable. For example, if you move from the Rikshospital and rebuild the premises on Ullevål, there are also a number of challenges with the site itself on Ullevål. But the second is that you have to leave more than 220,000 usable hospital square meters on Gaustad and replace them and rebuild them completely on Ullevål. It means a significantly larger investment, with equivalent efficiency requirements for the employees of Oslo University Hospital. But these questions will just be further addressed to the June board meeting, and Toppe will get even clearer answers to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e302	Per Olaf Lundtigen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e307	It is very strong to hear that the Council of State does not answer Toppe's first question, because that is the core of the matter. There is a lack of a plan of operations, a plan defining the objectives and content of an investment of 50 billion. kr. The government needs to follow its own hospital supervisor in case of hospital construction. How is it possible for the Council of State to approve such a move? Is it strange that things are going wrong – cost excesses and poor quality?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e312	Now I do not know what cost excesses the representative points to. On the contrary, the hospital projects to which we have now had, following the new corporate model against which the Centre Party is opposed, have shown that most of the investment projects are carried out within the framework and time. With regard to this project, it is absolutely right that the cost estimate has been adjusted. It's not a cost stick. A significant reason for the cost estimate to be adjusted was that Health South-East and Oslo University Hospital listened to the recordings from the Municipality of Oslo about the need to increase the capacity of hospitals in the case of bed coverings. A question that I experience, among other things. The representative Toppe has been concerned about very many times in other contexts, which is the number of hospitals planning to cover. Here has an adjusted coating percentage, and it has also meant that the project has become more expensive, naturally enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e319	Per Olaf Lundtigen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e324	It is correct that the cost estimates have been adjusted by 10 billion. kr, but isn't that a clear sign that something is ripping wrong? It is beyond any responsibility to plan in that way. Then we have the situation in North Norway. There is an undocumented idea that if you shut down the Finnish Hospital, they will get a better offer in Finnmark. UN management is not involved, employees are not involved, users are not involved. How can the Council of State benefit from such a way of operating such an important business, which is so important and so large a financial liability?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e331	It is such that when a project is planned, a project adjusts according to, among other things. the recordings coming from the municipalities and professionals concerned. When the affected municipalities and trade unionists report that the original project is planned for too few square metres, with too few beds, a project adjusts. This project has not yet been adopted by Health South-East or Oslo University Hospital. One's in the planning phase. This should be commended by the representative, not least when one has taken seriously the concern that one has initially planned too high a coating percentage, which I experience has been a main theme for the Senter party for many hours of questioning with me. The representative should commend the management of Health South-East for taking these concerns seriously. In the case of the Finnmark Hospital and the University Hospital North Norway, all will be involved in an investigation to be carried out before a merger decision is taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e338	Per Olaf Lundtigen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e343	I can't give you any praise here. I have too much experience with what happened in the North Moravia and Romesdal. Here, Health South-East is making a board decision where one says that one should light up the Ullevål option, without the option one goes out with, has been out at the hearing. One meets massive resistance, yet one runs on. With regard to the situation in North Norway, the Centre Party is committed to investing in Hammerfest. We are firmly committed to the establishment of a maternity ward with emergency services in Alta. It's completely independent of the organisation you're going to have. This is a way of moving forward in health policy that does not safeguard the broad interests of professionals and employees alike. How can the Council of State do that? That's the central question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e354	The plans in Oslo have been at the hearing. But it is quite clear that the representative Lundtigen does not like the answers that have come to the hearing, among other things. the response from the Oslo City Council, which supports the development plan in place. The user selection in Health South-East, Oslo University Hospital, says that the most important thing now is to get a solution for the hospitals in Oslo, not necessarily if one chooses one or the other plot. So, well, this has been at the hearing. As regards the situation related to the merger of the Finnish Hospital and the University Hospital Nord-Norway, an investigation will be carried out. All the municipalities concerned will be consulted. Employees will, of course, be granted their rights related to involvement, and the trustees will be involved. A sound, thorough decision-making basis shall be established before the merger decision is taken. Alta local government has already stated that they are in favour of this solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e361	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e367	My question goes to the Minister of Knowledge. Barnyards have unfortunately become big business, where a few large commercial players take over for small family-run and non-profit actors. This threatens the diversity and quality of childcare services. Through the purchase and sale of kindergartens financed mainly by the State, large private assets are built up through complex corporate structures, and by keeping expenditures at the expense of employees' pay and working conditions, owners obtain access to the family garden's financial surplus, inter alia. by granting itself large management fees and high wages. SV will not kill private kindergartens, but the law must be strengthened to prevent a few owners from enriching themselves at the expense of children and employees' pay and working conditions. We cannot, as responsible politicians, sit and see to it that someone is getting rich in the community's money. In April 2018, Aftenposten wrote that the owners of the Secure Barnhager group had taken out 900 million. kr from kindergartens and invested the money in other projects. Nearly as much was lost to oil companies. A father who is interviewing the case says that he is satisfied with the kindergarten, but he thinks it is a little strange that the owners have become millionaires. The Minister of Knowledge also finds it a little strange that the owners have become millionaires in kindergartens, or what does the Minister of Knowledge think is the reason why the commercial kindergartens despite being 100 pst. full-funded by taxpayers' money and parental pay, generates so much profit that the owners can take out millions of dollars?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e380	We are lucky in Norway, which has almost full child care coverage, and we have basically good kindergartens, with which the parents are satisfied, and in which the children thrive and evolve. There is a need, when asked, to remember little about the story. An important childcare settlement was concluded in 2005. Then the government and opposition, with SV at the head, invited private kindergartens to join in expanding the kindergarten sector, so that all children had a nursery offer. It was then – and with the SV's blessing – that a framework for kindergartens was put in place, so that it would be rapidly expanded, and there the private kindergartens have set up. So it's true that we're now in a new phase, we're in a new era. Therefore, the government has taken the initiative to review the legislation. We have ordered extensive reports from BDO, from Telemark research and Agenda Kaupang, precisely because the changes we are about to make must be knowledge-based. So the reason, for which the representative asks questions, lies essentially in the framework that SV blessed when they were in government. Now we have initiated a new review, but it seems that we have a slightly different point of view for that review. It seems that the parties on the extreme left wing are engaged in the municipalisation of private kindergartens. They want a fight against the private kindergartens. When we carry out this review, it is because we need more stringent legislation. The money's going to be good for the kids. We need a transparent regulatory framework; it has to be open, so you can follow the cash flows. And we're going to facilitate diversity, because we want diversity in both size and ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e395	I hear the Minister of Knowledge refers to an investigation. Telemark’s latest report shows that there is a great deal of variation in the financial performance of private kindergartens, which has no explanation in the classical cost drivers. Some of these may be due to differences in the profit motivation of the owners. They find that kindergartens owned by chains have on average greater profits than other kindergartens. The fact that this is related to administrative economies of scale is not supported by the report, on the contrary. Has the Minister of Knowledge read the report of Telemark's research which he himself has ordered, or does he not relate to knowledge that does not fit his ideological activities?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e402	I believe that the representative has misunderstood completely if she believes that the review we are now conducting is ideologically driven. My starting point is the children who are going to go to kindergarten. I'm concerned with high-quality kindergarten, I'm concerned that there should be sufficient staffing, and that there should be good pedagogues. That is why we have implemented a staffing standard, and that is why we have implemented a pedagogical standard. At the same time, as the representative of Fagerås points out, some of the large chains have had lower crews. Now that we have introduced a standard of staffing, it ensures that more of the money will benefit the children, and I am very pleased about that. I have not ordered just one report, I have ordered several reports, and I have read them – from BDO, from Telemarksforschung and from Agenda Kaupang. I've done it because the changes we're going to make have to be knowledge-based, we have to know what we're doing. These are important welfare schemes for families, these are important offers for the children, and then we cannot go ideologically to work, as SV does. We must have predictability for the children and kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e411	It opens for follow-up questions – first Mona Fagerås.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e416	The moonbeam kindergarten in Oslo is now likely to have to pay back 1.7 million. kr, which, according to the supervisory report, they have spent on spas and tourist guided tours to Florence and Berlin with little professional content. This money can eventually be spent on the children in the kindergartens in Oslo, thanks to the fact that the Red-Green City Council in Oslo has overseen the private kindergartens. Unfortunately, according to the Agenda Kaupang report, which the Minister had in mind, 99 out of 100 private kindergartens fail to supervise, and that this is mainly due to a law that the municipalities seem difficult to enforce, and that they lack capacity and competence. Is the Minister of Knowledge comfortable implementing so little supervision of private kindergartens, which, after all, manage so much money on behalf of the public? If not – what will the Minister of Knowledge do?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e425	Let me first say that if a code is broken, there is no law that is wrong – that is because of the practice on the part of Kindergarten and the lack of supervision at an earlier time from the municipality. I agree that what is known in the report is that it's only 1 pst. of the private kindergartens that have had financial supervision is a problem. It is also a problem because it is difficult for municipalities to carry out financial supervision of larger groups, which may have kindergartens in several municipalities, and follow the cash flows. I can confirm that financial supervision is one of the issues we want to address. As I have notified the Stortinget about earlier, we aim to get a new code to be consulted before the summer, so that a case can be brought before the Stortinget before Christmas. That's the plan I'm working on.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e432	Mona Fagerås – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e437	This was just a small extract of all the media essays that have been in recent years, and that have revealed what we in all modesty must be able to call a dividend party. Some of the dividends are probably completely legitimate; some are in the grey zone, but probably there are also crimes committed. Since 2017, the government has seen the need to address legislative changes, which the Minister has been involved in. But almost two years and more professional reports after that, we have not received these reports. I am pleased that the Minister of Knowledge is finally telling Storting that these are coming. But does the minister of knowledge think that kindergartens are flooded with so much money that you just have to sit calm year after year and watch that money disappears for private consumption and wealth? I almost feel that the right-hand side honors those who take out these huge dividends. When will the Council of State put its foot down and make sure that this stops?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e442	Let me first remind you – once again – that the legislation to which both private, non-profit and municipal kindergartens relate is a code that was put in place by the Socialist Left Party because SV needed the private kindergartens. SV helped raise the private kindergartens because full child care coverage was to be ensured in Norway. So suddenly SV turns around and shows its ideological soul: now you go to the fight against the private kindergartens, now you want to municipalize the kindergarten sector. It's not my lead. I am concerned that the children should have good offers, and that we should have a diversity in the kindergarten sector. That means we need big, we need small, we need municipal, we need ideals, we need private – and we need to make sure that we have a forward-looking regulatory framework that ensures that we are both strict, that the money benefits the children, that it should be transparent and open, and that we should facilitate diversity.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e447	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e453	I really didn't intend to take the floor, but I thought it was very striking that after four questions, where the representative Fager was constantly pointing out that here we have a system that has made a few kindergarten owners very, very rich, that there has been detected a lack of supervision and control and violation of the law, then the government can come to the Storting and take none of those concerns seriously at all. Here's the effort from the community, the money that should go to well-being, the money that should go to better kindergartens, for good with added, etc., completely out of the question. So the government doesn't take this seriously and owe it to SV to ri ideological champions. What is it?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e458	Then I must say that the representative has followed extremely poorly. In fact, it is the civil government that has taken the initiative to review a regulation and a system that has been brought forward because in 2005 and beyond, private kindergartens were needed. It is our government that has now ordered a number of reports because this should be knowledge-based. We can't create a code for thousands of kindergartens based on media lookups. It must be knowledge-based – therefore, BDO report, Telemark research, Agenda Kaupang, and therefore a thorough review, because we need forward-looking legislation that is strict so that the money benefits children. That is why we have also introduced the standard of manpower and the standard of education, which was what our government carried out. We need an open and transparent system to track the cash flows. There must be trust and legitimacy, and we must facilitate diversity. It wants the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left and Right. It must be a diverse offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e463	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e468	It's about the Oslo hospitals, the security of the population. Last week in the Question Time, the Council of State said: « The trauma environment at Ullevål should also be maintained at Gaustad. [[...]] It also means that Gaustad should have sufficient basis for emergency patients to maintain the current function, competence and environment of Ullevål. This is a prerequisite for the plans now being implemented.’» Where does Bent Höie take this from? Is it a document where this is determined? In today's Class Struggle, specialist director Jan Frich in Health South-East admits that the proposed urban division provides a smaller patient base than is needed to ensure the necessary volume of surgery and emergency medicine. He also writes that an investigation is necessary to give a clearer picture of the trauma centre in Oslo. The Board of Health South-East has decided that the trauma activity of the plans needs to be further elucidated. So you have to figure out the alternative to bet on Ullevål Hospital. However, in order to ensure the safety of the population for hospitals, there is no need for lighting — a concept without content — a proper investigation is needed. Here's the matter of fragmentation of a professional environment with world-class lifesaving skills. If the Council of State believes that the OUS emergency section is wrong when they warn of the consequences of the plans supported by Council of State Höie, or that the trade director is saying wrong things in the public, will the Council of State Höie then document the claim he joined in the questionnaire last week, or withdraw the claim? What is the background to the fact that Council of State Höie is so sure of the adequate patient base for trauma and emergency treatment, given the existing plans?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e484	This is simply because – as the representative is also involved in his question – the final patient distribution and the basis have not been decided. What I said in the Questionnaire, I'm 100 pst. I'm sure As an owner, it is precisely a clear prerequisite for me that the competence and function of the trauma environment on Ullevål today must and must be safeguarded also in a solution where the environment is moved to Gaustad. This does not mean that the patient base for the new emergency reception in Gaustad must be the largest in Norway. It must be large enough to maintain competence and function. It is a prerequisite for me who owns that Health South-East contributes to the planned work that is being done now, and in the processes that the representative was also involved, and demonstrates that it will be the result.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e491	Then we have to ask – and get a clear answer: what is big enough? Is that 250,000? Is that 200,000? 170 000? We need to get a clear answer to that. We know what the experience is from Stockholm, where we went for the New Karolinska performance project with similar arguments as you hear in this case – it would be cheaper. The result was the world's most expensive hospital, a shantytown with fewer shelters and, here too, too, too little patient base despite a lot of insurance from the parliament in Riksdagen. General and medically responsible for the trauma centre at Karolinska says that Sweden's leading trauma surgeons are without enough patients and that they are getting worse in their job. Why is Höie not more concerned about getting these Swedish conditions in Norwegian hospitals when the plan available for Health South-East involves too few patients to the trauma department? And can we from the Council of State get a clear answer to what is a large enough patient base for the trauma department?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e498	I don't think the representative Moxnes or I'm going to take on the task of defining what's big enough for such a professional question. That's why these processes are still moving towards the Health South-East Board meeting in June, precisely because you have to follow up and ensure these functions. I've been very clear on that from day one. It is a prerequisite for me who owns that you have a large enough patient base to be able to perform the functions of the new hospital.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e503	It opens for follow-up questions – Bears Moxnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e508	This isn't very soothing. It is first a claim in the previous question hour that the prerequisite is to have enough patients to ensure the competence, which is life-saving, of the country's largest emergency hospital. When it is followed up in today's Question Time, there is no clear response from the Council of State to what is big enough to ensure that the environment continues to have its world-class competence. The acute group has defined this. It's professionals, it's not Moxnes, it's not Höie – it's professionals. They say that a patient base of 240,000 is needed to maintain the competence of today’s Ullevål Hospital. My question is: does Bent Höie agree or disagree with the emergency team professionals, who say that you need a patient base of nearly a quarter of a million to continue your competence? Is it the assumption that's taken into account, or isn't it?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e515	As the representative of Moxnes is familiar with, there is now work related to this, which also involves the professional community. That work shall be completed before the meeting of the Management Board in June. This means that the representative is well aware that it would be very unwise for me who now owns to conclude in advance of the work being done, where the trade union environment is also involved. What I've said as an owner, is what's my assumption, that the function that the trauma environment on Ullevål today represents, is to be secured and continued in the new solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e520	Bears Moxnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e526	That should be easy. When the professionals are quite clear in their advice on what is necessary to ensure that the Council of State speaks nicely about in the Questionnaire, namely that the environment should at least not be weakened, but that we get a plan that at least continues the life-saving environment at the trauma centre of Ullevål Hospital, the Council of State should simply be able to establish that this is the basis for this. When we know what the health bureaucrats have done in the past with hospitals in Oslo – so we chose to put down Aker hospitals, which was a huge mistake, which destroyed important professional environments, in violation of their own claims – and when we now also know that the professional environments at Ullevål and the Rikshospital are together against this plan because it will weaken the professional environments, it would at least be reassuring if the Council of State could say quite clearly: ‘Yes, the prerequisite is that we should have at least 240,000 people in the patient base, and that is the basis for the work of Health South-East. That is a clear premise.»
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e531	That is why I also give a very clear answer, at a level that I believe belongs to the political level, namely that the functions and quality of the trauma offer at Ullevål today should be taken care of in the new hospital. What is the right patient basis for ensuring it, I think very much is a professional question. Throughout all my years as Minister of Health I have probably learned that in the case of professional questions, there is also discussion and disagreement there, but it should be done at the professional level. The discussions, investigations and assessments are currently taking place. That means it's not concluded either.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e536	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e541	The Minister of Health may follow up on the theme Oslo Hospital. There is now a broad process in place to address many issues in this big city. We can remember – even myself who is elected from Oslo – that when we discuss capacities in Oslo, where there are a few minutes of driving time, it often contrasts with the challenges we have in the country. It underlines to me the importance of using resources correctly, both economic and human. Now we're going to address the needs of a growing population, we're going to use financial resources in a good way, we're going to use human resources in a good way, and we're going to take care of critical functions. The Labour Party agrees. That process is important, and we look forward to what will happen to the summer board meeting. What I want to emphasize is something that isn't much talked about right now. That's the importance of getting started on Aker, who becomes a new regional hospital, which can be for the Groruddalen, a large part of our city that's been sucking into Aarhus. Ahus is full. There come several patients from the hinterland who are also going to Ahus, and therefore Aker cannot wait. That hospital should be clear around 2030 and is very vulnerable to late start-up. My question is about the parallelity of this project. You have to build Aker in parallel with a collection between Gaustad and Ullevål. What is a premise in this, which the representative of Moxnes often skips, is how this is to be financed. The premise that's inside, and as the Minister of Health says is necessary to succeed, is that one of the plots is disposed of, sold, that there is income from it. I want to ask the question to the Minister of Health: Is it so that this whole project, which is linked to the start-up of Aker – here everything is related to everything – depends on one of the plots, according to the plan now Ullevål, being sold, and if it doesn't happen, does this project stop?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e556	Yes, we have to dispose of one of the plots in the long run, but there's going to be hospital activity on Ullevål for a long time to come. There are still good buildings on Ullevål that are going to be used. Ullevål's big. This can be done in different ways, but in the future target picture there is a need for the Ullevål emptiness to be sold. With regard to the parallelity between Gaustad and Aker development, it is simply due to the possibility of answering some of the issues that have also been highlighted in the earlier Questionnaire, to ensure a good patient distribution and the correct transfer in the correct order from Akershu University Hospital. We have not only a growing population in Oslo, on which the representative is involved, but also a growing population belonging to Akershu University Hospital. That's where the parallelity goes into this project. As planned, we are dependent on a parallel expansion of Aker and Gaustad.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e563	But then the question is: if it is such that one does not have to dispose of one of the plots, that there should be continued activity in the current Rikshospital in Gaustad and continued activity in Ullevål Hospital – i.e. not a realization of that project – then the Minister of Health can confirm that, if that happens, there may need to be substantial more funds for the Oslo Hospitals, either from the total budgets of Health South-East or by the government, which does not have a proud experience in granting hospitals, must come up with more money? So the prerequisite for realizing this, which is parallel, is that one of the plots is sold.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e568	The answer to that is simple: Yes. It will be extremely demanding and will require a significant input of more capital with such a solution as the representative outlines, where one retains activity in all three areas. It will require a significant upgrade of the building mass, not least on Ullevål, which will be very costly. In addition, it will not be operationally sustainable. It's often something you don't look so carefully at. One is very concerned about the investment costs, but it's the operating costs that are high in hospitals. And operationally, it'll be an unsustainable solution, based on the numbers we have now.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e573	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e578	Thanks for the answer. I would also like to highlight some of the things that the Minister of Health was about, and which I think is a question we are discussing little, namely the use of human resources. That I experience is a challenge elsewhere in the country, and we need to assess how parallelity is happening here in the city. My last question is: What the Minister of Health sees it, should it be clear that after the clarifications Health South-East will take place in the summer, there will be no delay in this region hospital – which is to serve the Groruddalen, the districts can come back – being able to make a decision this year?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e585	Yes, that's what we're planning on from, but we're also dependent on the decisions that are now to be made in Health South-East, and we're dependent on decisions to be made in the Municipality of Oslo. I feel that the majority of Oslo City Councils are doing everything they can to ensure that we succeed in the progress of these plans, but we also depend on that. Health South-East has sent a loan application for this project, but there are some of the assumptions for the loan request that are not yet in place. They must of course be in place before the government can take a final decision on such an application.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e590	Tuva Moflag – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e596	As the representative Jonas Gahr Støre was inside, Akershus needs Ahus himself. It's urgent to put Aker in place, and there'll be a need for even more local hospital capacity in the capital area. Health South-East points to the need for another local hospital to meet the population growth in Oslo and Akershus. Such a hospital should be located in the south of Follo or Oslo, as the residents there today have to travel through Oslo to get to their hospital. Today there is a huge densification along the entire Eastfold Railway, and available areas are being built down for housing and nutrition purposes. If we do not secure an empty space for a future hospital here, we are at risk of delays on the day we will get the next hospital in place. Will the Minister of Health start a process with the municipalities to secure the necessary areas for hospitals for the population of Follo and Oslo South – to think even further in time?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e603	Yes, the representative is right that what we are now discussing is step one. Step two, if we look even further forward in time, as it looks now, will probably mean the need for a new hospital in the area of Follo–Oslo south, with the population growth we see. That's something that Health South-East is very aware of and of course has on its agenda. It is those who may be responsible for deciding at what time it is right to have a dialogue with municipalities to look for alternative plots. But I feel that the main focus now is linked to getting the country to the first stage, which we have discussed a lot in this questioning process.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e608	Bears Moxnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e613	Now we got a clear illustration of how Gahr Støre sets up as Bent Höie and Røre's support wheels in the plan to put Ullevål Hospital – which is a plan that all the trade unions oppose – and uses Aker as a passport to support the plan. What is forgotten is that if Ullevål is laid down, the districts of Søndre Nordstrand, Nordstrand and Östensjö must be transferred to Acher. Then there is no room to transfer Groruddalen together to Aker, which is the requirement of the population – not least in the east of Oslo – all over the city and has been so for years since the Workers' Party participated in the adoption of the closure of Aker Hospital a few years ago. Can Bent Höie confirm that if Ullevål is laid down, will there be a domino effect with the transfer of the districts of Nordstrand, Sønder Nordstrand and Östensjö to Aker, so that there will not be room for the whole Groruddalen on Aker before perhaps once into the target image, in the 2040s?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e618	No, because there is no domino effect that is caused at the time when the Groruddalen is going to be transferred to Oslo University Hospital. It is about phased Groruddalen out of Aarhus at the time that the population base of Akershu University Hospital indicates that there is a need for that capacity. If one had done so too early, Akershus University Hospital would have had a significant overcapacity and thus major financial problems. So here's a sequence, which also means that one should phase all the districts of Oslo into Oslo University Hospital, but it must be done in the right order, at the right time and on the basis of what is the need for the population of Akershus related to Ahus. That's why Grorud is phased in at a later stage than the other districts. It has nothing to do with the question of Ullevål.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e623	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e628	My question goes to the Christian People's Party Leader and Minister of Agriculture Oluk V. Bollestad. Norway has very good animal health. An important part of our preparedness to ensure good animal health and to detect possible outbreaks of disease early on has been that we have the laboratory and the ability to analyse trials around the country quickly. Now this preparedness is being built by the Veterinary Institute to cut out laboratory and autopsy rooms for animals in Tromsø and Trondheim. In Sandnes, the lab has to be cut. This is mainly due to a lack of funding from the Government Party of the Veterinary Institute's move to new premises at Ås. Common to both Tromsø, Trondheim and Sandnes is that the long-term supply is now being crushed. It's a warning that they're adding will get cancellations early next month. It is the Christian People's Party Leader and Minister of Agriculture Olug V. Bollestad who is politically responsible for the current rage. After a meeting with the Veterinary Institute yesterday, it seems that the Minister of Agriculture is only busy having a decentralised structure without worrying about what is actually the content of the provision in Tromsø, Trondheim and Sandnes. The size has said that these departments should be developed. Then the answer is not to let them be retired. This is pure and sheer centralization. Will the Council of State ensure that the veterinary preparedness is developed and not liquidated at the Departments of the Veterinary Institute in Tromsø, Trondheim and Sandnes?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e641	As the Council of State, I have been concerned with a decentralised structure precisely because it is a readiness. Farm preparedness is provided through a primary health service, which is the Food Authority and local veterinarians, and then the Veterinary Institute has assisted as a specialist health service. It's important to me, and that's why I called in the board yesterday, to make sure there's such preparedness both in Sandnes, in Trondheim and in Tromsø. To start in Tromsø first, one refers to autopsy capacity. It has been downwards – not capacity, but the use of autopsy has been downwards in Tromsø. One has used the autopsy room, and one has a rental contract for it out this year. Right now, one is negotiating with the University of Tromsø in order to get an autopsy access cooperation when a mover moves with NIBIO, up to an economy to build a new autopsy room. I am concerned that the decision taken in Stortinget should be followed up – that there should be such a service in the districts as the representative Pollestad referred to. As far as Sandnes is concerned, I was told yesterday by the management that Sandnes is going to be a new national centre of expertise for animal health and animal welfare preparedness and herd diagnostics. This means that one actually has to help secure the service that is now there and have the veterinary service that is needed to ensure this both in Sandnes and nationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e650	My further question is, can they join the Veterinary Institute, 8 in Sandnes and 13 in Trondheim, wait for the settlements at the beginning of March?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e655	It is such that the Veterinary Institute is a management body with its own board of directors. That board has sent out alerts to 140 employees, and it will cancel approx. 25 employees for one reason. It is, as the representative says, the economic situation, because they lack between 20 and 25 million. kr. It has reason to believe that they are lacking, or have received less, external funding. They're getting state funding. They have increased pension costs, and they have also increased costs of moving to Ås. I can't say which of the 140 who get laid off, but what I can say is that I'm dedicated to maintaining the veterinary services and the competences of the regional veterinary institutes that we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e660	It opens for follow-up questions – first Geir Pollestad.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e666	It's completely impossible to understand what the Council of State is responding to now. One says that one is busy with this, and at the same time one can't promise anything when it comes to those people who, for decades, many of them, have worked and built up a competence around this, whether they get fired or not. It's not hanging on to anything. So I try again -- I get to take Sandnes as an example: how can one say that one should strengthen this when eight out of ten of these professionals have been notified that they will get the cancellation at the beginning of March? This is just new talk. One talk about a structure, but the reality is that it has to be cut, and it will have consequences. I miss so much that the Council of State takes an interest in this and says, of course, that we should maintain both the structure and the competence that they have, because this is about animal welfare, it's about animal welfare. So my question is again, will they be fired?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e671	We need to keep the structure, and we need to keep the skills. But I want to say one thing: what has been the situation at Sandnes is that one has had a discussion about the laboratory service, because one has built a large, modern laboratory at Ås. Then the question is whether to do all the laboratory services on Sandnes. There are, as in health care, many samples that are taken in a regional hospital and sent to a national hospital for answers and back again, precisely because one needs special skills. This means that the activity should be strengthened both in Sandnes and in Tromsø. That's what I'm standing here saying, and I mean that, but I can't say what kind of jobs they should have in the enhanced competence. I believe that this is actually the role of the board.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e676	Geir Pollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e681	This is hard to get wise on. I was visiting Sandnes yesterday – I know people have been visiting both Trondheim and Tromsø. This is about heavy animals, this is about those who are going to treat them, and it is clear that if eight out of ten, for example. on the disappearance of Sandnes, and there are two remaining, the offer will be dramatically changed. The same is true in Middle Norway if one removes autopsy capacity and laboratory capacity there. Let me say it so banal: if one has a reindeer or a cow, and the veterinarian suspects a disease on the animal, shall one put the animal in the mail and send it to Ås? And trust such a man in the mail? It is important that this is clarified quickly when it happens, and that is the strength of having a geographical presence. So my question is, aside from all the words, how is the Council of State going to secure the competence and preparedness if a centralizes the way it is now?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e686	I think it's almost a hoax over such an important work. I think I've been to more autopsy halls than Pollestad, and that's actually how one takes samples, one sends samples even in an autopsy. And I also know that the autopsy hall in Sandnes is actually not to be laid down. I say autopsy capacity in Tromsø should be there, but not in the autopsy room that you have today. Then that means you're going to autopsy the animals that need autopsy on site, and you're going to take samples of those that you need to sample. The autopsy changes, they do it for people, and they will do it for animals, and that also the representative Pollestad actually has to take over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e691	Cecilie Myrseth – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e696	Councillor Bollestad has called the Veterinary Institute into the carpet for an explanation, but the proposals that came have obviously swallowed up the rat. State Secretary Skogan has also today stated that, for example: in Tromsø, the department shall develop an Arctic Special Responsibility. It was supposed to be missing. It's in the Arctic. You can't put an arctic label on everything and say it's good enough, because it's not. The case in Tromsø is that there are three employees there, you have to leave the lab, you are not going to give money to a new post-mortem hospital, and notice of termination has been sent. And considering the case that was here in 2015, when you decided to continue what is in North Norway today, and you also said that you should have an offer of autopsy, diagnostics and monitoring in North Norway, this is very special. So in what way can the minister say that this is a reinforcement, or continuation?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e703	First of all, I have to deal with what the chairman and the management say. One shall maintain Tromsø, one shall beat the Veterinary Institute together with NIBIO at Holt. I think the representative knows that too. And then you're going to keep and use the autopsy capacity that they have a lease on, out of the year. After that, they have to negotiate to borrow autopsy capacity at the University of Tromsø. And then a new autopsy room is built if the money comes to Tromsø. Then a building, but there is a lack of money that makes you not solve it now. And then one in addition has given them the tasks that the chairman said, and that means that one wants, will and will further develop Tromsø's department under the Veterinary Institute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e708	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e713	I found it positive that the Council of State says that one wants to maintain the structure, and that one wants to maintain the proximity with regard to both autopsy, analysis and preparedness. Consider Tromsø as an example: we have had analysis and autopsy there since just after the war. There are large distances in this country, there are many large animals in the north, and if one sends them with the post-mortem post, one of course will have a decline in being able to monitor if there are serious diseases coming into the country. It is also climate change. We know that there are many diseases that can be transmitted to humans. It concerns food security, preparedness, etc. So when the Veterinary Institute goes to the step of alerting down crews in these places, it's seriously not just for these jobs, it's actually serious for everyone in the whole district of Norway. My question to the Council of State relates specifically to Tromsø: does the new autopsy room, which eventually stays at the University of Tromsø, have the same functions as one today for autopsy?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e722	What's important to me is that one actually maintains the safety that a person in the emergency context can take the tests you need to take, precisely to ensure that a person does not get infectious diseases, that an actual detects diseases early enough to take care of the area around a viewing risk, if necessary. It's about knowledge, it's about competence, and it's about taking tests. But it is also about using new methods. I assume what the chairman says, that they will maintain the competence and the need they have. We also have to assume that there will be new test methods and new ways of doing things that will perhaps give us even better test answers, just to protect people and animals, in the north and in the south. Therefore, it is important that we not only lock ourselves up to have one type of sampling – precisely because we also have to be able to follow new methods.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e730	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e735	I thank you for your answer. I believe this combination is very important; the proximity to where the production takes place, and where there are animals, is extremely important. Local knowledge, understanding the area you're in, and short distances to analysis and autopsy are very decisive at the time we're in. What is quite provocative, I believe, too much of the Storting, probably including the Council of State party, is that we have made very clear decisions in the Stortinget that there should be no weakening. It's actually going to be a reinforcement, and then there's a letter of resignation for those added to these regions, and it's going to be added to a reduction. The last time in the fall, I asked the Council of State about this, where the Department decided that it should be strengthened. There were also other questions — and the answer was that it should be strengthened. Then come the Veterinary Institute and add up to the exact opposite. Does the Council of State find it problematic that the Veterinary Institute has not adhered to such clear political leadership?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e746	Yes, and that's why I called in the Chairman and CEO of my office, just to hear the background, because I know about the decision that's been made, I know about the proposition work that's been done, and I know about the expectations that are created out there. I am genuinely concerned about preparedness and competence, also for areas where there is a high density of animals. Norway is known for its proper and safe animal welfare and we need a safe food production. Then this is a prerequisite. That is why it was so important for me to get the answers I received then, to make sure that we follow up that decision. And then I asked specific questions – not least about Tromsø and the turmoil that has been created around autopsy facilities in particular.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e753	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e758	I thank you again for your answer. It would be interesting to confirm or deny that the Council of State signals that the environment that is Tromsø, Trondheim and Sandnes should not be weakened, that they should be strengthened, and that the functions that one has today should be passed on – of course introduced new methods in a new time, but that at least we should not build up these environments when it is due to add and resource.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e765	It is important for me, as the Council of State, not to reduce the skills and needs of the regional offices, because this is an important preparedness and an important specialist in animal welfare. So to me, this is important. At the same time, it is important to say that, as the Council of State, I am also concerned that one must at all times apply new methods, which provide better results and better answers. Otherwise it would have been like before. We would also not have had to build on Ås if we thought everything was going to be like before. I believe that this must be linked. But I'm extremely concerned about caring for the regional functions that Stortinget has actually asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e772	Sandra Borch - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e777	This is a matter that rightly concerns and concerns many people. I notice that the Council of State says that for Tromsø, a cooperation is to be established with the University of Tromsø. Very familiar is the autopsy room where too little, and it requires a number of large investments. Have the Councils thought about it? And in addition, is the Council of State planning to bring infectious animals into the University of Tromsø?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e784	What lies in the prerequisites for the negotiations that have been between the Veterinary Institute and the University of Tromsø, I cannot say, because I have not been in those negotiations. So what's going on about size, capacity and infectivity, I have to ask the Veterinary Institute. It's actually, I think, outside my area to be able to answer right now. I was concerned that we would secure a capacity in the north. I was concerned that they would have answered my question about a decentralised structure. I was concerned that there would be an opportunity for autopsy, and that was what I received an answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e791	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e796	Safe food and healthy animals are also essential for the health of people. The value of this is great, and other countries would give a lot to get it, but it's a value that's created over a long time, with hard work, long-term, wise political choices, and people in professional environments who are in contact with animals and fish and in contact with the reality where the value creation actually happens. In Denmark, on the other hand, we see what happens when liberal desktop theory trumps biological and practical knowledge of animal health, public health and disease prevention – antibiotic resistance and deadly diseases, including for people. This may result when countries lose control of infection and lose contact with the starting point, a production that is in line with the natural basis. Why does the right-wing government consider building up the vital work of the Veterinary Institute around our country?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e806	I believe that to the previous question I stood and said exactly the opposite. I'm just as concerned that one isn't going to build up the Veterinary Institute. It is for the reason that you have built and are going to merge exactly those environments in Ås, while at the same time having a decentralised structure, just to catch disease cases, new diseases, be involved in antibiotic treatment, be in contact with the veterinarians who are out with the Food Authority, meet the farmer, the farmer where he is – just to catch this. When I get questions about why we are busy building down, I feel the opposite. We are committed to ensuring that there is good competence out there — in the Veterinary Institute, in the Food Authority and not least in the veterinary service. It was just supposed to be missing. It's important for antibiotic use, but it's also important for food security, and it's about the entire ecological system. So I want to say that we're busy with the protruding opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e811	It opens for follow-up questions – first Øystein Langholm Hansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e816	In an article in the evening paper.no today, one refers to the meeting that the Council of State had with the Veterinary Institute yesterday. That Article also states that the Sandnes Division shall become a national centre and have a national function in relation to animal health and welfare preparedness and stock diagnostics. At the same time, cancellation notices have not been withdrawn. In my opinion, it is not consistent to send one week notices of dismissals sending shock waves into the veterinary settings throughout the country, and then – the week after – to announce that one of the departments will become a national centre and further develop. I would like a slightly clearer answer from the Minister of Agriculture. Can she guarantee that in the future the Sandnes department and the other regional departments will ensure both diagnosis, advice, laboratory activities and preparedness in their regions?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e823	I think I have said quite many times now that yes, we are going to take care of the regional structures. An alert shall be maintained. One shall have the competence. One shall be able to provide guidance to veterinarians, to the supervision of food, which are the ones that are only outside when something happens on a farm. They shall be able to contribute to both competence, knowledge and, if necessary, sampling. But I am also concerned that the national centre that is now to be further developed and built in Sandnes is following a decision that was made in this house already in 2008. I also believe it is important for national preparedness that there are those who are given total responsibility and who can contribute – in Rogaland and elsewhere – to building skills. I agree with the representative that this will mean that one cannot build – one must actually further develop the veterinary institute in Sandnes and the other institutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e830	Kirsti Leirtrö – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e835	It is populated with most livestock farms. We are proud of the good local food production and how different environments work together. The regionalisation of the Veterinary Institute was a success and provides us with security for good animal welfare and food health throughout the country. The veterinary institute shall remain nationwide and have regional units, says the Director. At the same time, we read that the autopsy and laboratory activities in Trondheim are shut down – a total of 13 years. My question to the Council of State is, what will she say to the Trondelag, where there is a crisis in food security? What really happens in Trondheim?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e842	Thank you for the question. The Department of the Veterinary Institute in Trøndelag has initially made major changes and has a great responsibility. Especially in the blue sector, they have made major changes. They have more or less taken a national responsibility and are highly competent. I am fully aware of the challenges that the question is about, what to do to ensure the preparedness – also according to what the representative says – for the tight animal husbandry. The animal husbandry, animal welfare and preparedness shall be as good in Trondelag as in Rogaland and in the north. A prerequisite for a regional preparedness is that one should also ensure the preparedness of Trøndelag, because there are major challenges with tight animal husbandry.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e849	Martin Henriksen – to the last follow-up question in this oral questioning.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e854	I believe that the Minister of Agriculture has good intentions, but I am provoked by the answer she is giving to various representatives here today. It is very difficult to understand how to say that one should maintain competence in the regions, when the people who have competence today have received notice of termination and must stop. In Tromsø, for example, the number of autopsy is reduced and diagnostics is removed or reduced. That was not the condition of the decision taken unanimously by Stortinget in 2015. You can't say that, for example. Tromsø will have special competence in the Arctic and the North, when the two researchers who will be left are moved to the university and, of course, are going to do research on it. Getting the label special competence on what to do in any case sounds like an explanation first and foremost. I wonder how the Council of State can use such rhetoric and say that she should maintain and build up competence, when that's the opposite that happens. People are being given up, and tasks are being removed or reduced.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e863	In reply I said that the environment in Tromsø, Trondheim and Sandnes should be further developed. It's to ensure a decentralised structure. I have also said that there are new methods and new ways of working that make one have to do things in other ways. We've also seen that in health. When you're going to find infectious diseases, take samples, do it in other ways today than one did 20 years ago. That's what the Veterinary Institute has said to me. It also applies in the field of animal health. However, this does not mean that we need to reduce capacity and have a good professional environment that ensures competence, preparedness, predictability, the ability to take tests and the ability to do so – if there are any tests that need to be sent. That preparedness shall be as good in the north as it has been and shall be further developed.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e877	So the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e891	There will be some changes to the configured question list. In this context, the President refers to the electronic question list. The proposed amendments are proposed for approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 6, from the representative Eigil Knutsen of the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, is postponed until the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 7, from the representative Cecilie Myrseth to the Minister of Defence, has been transferred to the Minister of Health who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e907	‘How will the government ensure that the Veterinary Institute must not reduce the activity of the press?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e912	Now I've answered questions about the Veterinary Institute quite many times, but I'm going to answer the question from the representative Pollestad. The veterinary institute is a management body with its own board, which is entrusted with a strategic and ongoing responsibility for the activities. The Veterinary Institute currently has a complex basic funding and a significant share of mission financing. The activity of the Foundation will therefore be sensitive to the availability of externally funded projects. In 2018, the Veterinary Institute carried out a conversion in fish health and organised its work with its own sections in Harstad, Trondheim, Bergen and Oslo. In connection with the establishment at Ås, the Institute has looked at the conversion of work in the field of animal health. In that transition, the Institute has continued the presence in Sandnes, Trondheim and Tromsø with some changes in work tasks. The veterinary institute will further develop Sandnes as a national centre of expertise for animal health and animal welfare preparedness and stock diagnostics. In Tromsø, the Veterinary Institute shall be co-located with NIBIO and shall have a special responsibility for, inter alia: domestic, animal health, species, preparedness and surveillance in the Arctic. In the transition to more modern and efficient operations, the Veterinary Institute will inter alia: address the work of diagnostics and disease surveillance. Sample collection will be more risk-based and, to a lesser extent, based on more or less random testing of sick animals. The Institute will focus its diagnostic activities on serious infectious diseases and reduce the level of diagnosis of common production diseases. This conversion work has become extra challenging due to a demanding budgetary situation, resulting from less external financing, increased pension costs and increased costs associated with the establishment of new premises at Ås. I want to make it clear that the cost of new construction at Ås is not the Veterinary Institute that takes, but they cover the actual transfer of their own institute. The Chairman and CEO of the Swedish Veterinary Institute has briefed me on the budgetary situation for 2019 as well as on the need for redundancy and other savings. This will go beyond tasks which are peripheral to the social mission of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the Ministry of Food and Fisheries. The measures will have an impact on the premises, equipment and tasks of each regional unit, including in Oslo. It is important to be aware that the primary responsibility for preparing for serious infectious diseases lies with the Food Safety Authority and is to be present throughout the country. The veterinary institute is the main provider of knowledge to the authorities in the prevention, resolution and management of these diseases. In my meeting with the director yesterday, I was assured that the savings measures will not go beyond the Institute's contribution to preparedness or knowledge of the status of our good animal health.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e929	I thank you for your answer. I note that the Council of State goes much further in defending this centralisation than the leadership of the Veterinary Institute itself, which is more tidy and merely says that this is an economic issue. There is something you don't get away. I registered that the right state councils in ring two laughed when I talked about sending whole animals. But when the veterinarians, if there is an outbreak of disease, talk about the importance of being able to see the whole animal and evaluate it, I take it seriously. It is a fact that if a sample is to be sent to the post office, it might take a day or two more before one receives an answer as to whether there is an outbreak of the disease. Then the council has a lot of black and talk about bets. I am not only busy in the words but also in the action. Will a bet on Trondheim to reduce by 13 highly qualified additions, or is it now cancelled?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e940	The Board of Directors has its own responsibility. I will not waive any responsibility whatsoever for the Veterinary Institute, but I am also concerned that the Institute must have the freedom to change tasks according to its needs. And I am concerned that they are going to complete and carry out the mission that one has asked them to do, namely to ensure animal health, be in a hurry to take measures against infectious diseases, to detect diseases and, not least, to assist with guidance on local food surveillance and the local veterinary services – precisely to achieve the objective of ensuring good animal health and animal welfare at the disposal of the representative Pollestad.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e945	I don't think any of them in Trondheim, Trondheim or Sandnes are going to be very happy with the answers that are being given right now. Could be a lifetime of big words, so much so, but here's an actual one of the competences that these adding have built up over time, the environment they've built up. I was at Sandnes yesterday. There were also people from the SEARCH Centre who were opened by the impending representative of Olug V. Bollestad in June. They were very clear that a reduction in the Swedish Veterinary Institute on Sandnes, which is now announced, would go beyond the work that they were going to do. Then my question is: When the representative of Olaug V. Bollestad opened the SEARCH centre at Sandnes in June, did she think it was a good idea to get rid of eight out of ten members of the Veterinary Institute, the professional community that is just about to do what they're good at, work together?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e952	I have had contact with the management of the SEARCH Centre today. I was actually the one who both took the first spa roof and in addition got to open this center, because I am concerned about the combination of research on animal health and public health research. It's at the SEARCH Center. Today, it is primarily NMBU that has a cooperation with the SEARCH centre at Sandnes. What I was told yesterday is that the Swedish Veterinary Institute should also be required to cooperate closely with the SEARCH Centre on Sandnes, precisely to safeguard this centre's intention to conduct research – both for animals and for people – and which has been a prerequisite for us to prioritise spending money on it, together with the university, the air ambulance, and not least the hospital in Stavanger.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e962	‘It is established as a ‘truth’ following the Minister of Health’s visit to Hammerfest on 12 February that a U-turn is being opened in the agreement that the government parties will propose that the Finnish Health Hospital be part of the University Hospital Nord-Norway. Can the Council of States confirm or confirm whether it has been properly quoted in the case and is it indicated that the Council of States will not carry out this consolidation as it appears in the agreement?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e967	The representative refers to a headline in a newspaper, and that is the way the representative is aware that headlines control you not. I've never opened up to any u-turns in this context. It's the Granavolden platform that applies. I stressed at both meetings with the management and the trustees of the UNN and the Finnmark Hospital that my mission as Minister of Health is to implement the government platform. The platform is a political consensus between the parties, but, of course, when it is to be implemented, the rules of the labour market and the state's requirements for sound procedures and investigations apply. This means that no formal merger decision has been taken and that such a decision can only be taken after an investigation. The first step, therefore, is that in a business meeting, I give Health Nord the task of unraveling the merger and also providing for involvement and vulnerability and risk analysis. Once the investigation has been carried out, a formal position shall be taken on a merger. This is the usual procedure, and I'll give Health Nord this assignment in a short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e974	I thank you for a good answer from the Minister. When initiating such a process, it is natural and not least important to involve management, employees and the professional community and to investigate the challenges and opportunities of such a merger, to explore how to merge Finnmark Hospital with UNN in practice in order to obtain the best possible result, and to provide the basis for such an investigation to form the basis for a formal merger decision. By sending unclear signals, it opens up to u-turns, and all opponents will work to problematize the results of the investigation rather than look at the solution. It is extremely unfortunate and will give ground for a bad process, with a result that concludes that this would not be appropriate to implement. Here, it must be clear that the merger will be carried out, in order to avoid unfairness in the investigation. Does the Minister for Health agree that the mandate must be clear and clear on the implementation of this mandate, in order to maximise the involvement, process and outcome of bundling?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e983	The mission to Health Nord will be clear, and I assume, of course, that Health Nord is loyal to the mission they are given. But it is also important that we involve, as the representative is involved, everyone in the process, and the counter-representations must also be expressed. The aim of the merger will be to strengthen and build under the decentralised specialist health structure that we have in Finnmark, and to make it sustainable into a future, while the University Hospital North Norway will be strengthened as a regional and university hospital. That is the goal – what we want – of this merger. The investigation will tell us how to get there, and possibly about the risks and disadvantages that we need to be aware of before we make a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e990	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e998	‘A nationwide surveillance shows that ambulance workers have very critical working conditions. Employees throughout the country are exposed to serious infection, violence and threats without the risk they are still taking being assessed. What does the Council of State do to improve the working situation of ambulance workers?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e1003	The ambulance service is a very central part of emergency preparedness and contributes to good preparedness throughout the country. The government is committed to ensuring good working conditions for the staff of the emergency health services, in order to ensure the safety of the population. Prehospital services will therefore also form part of the next national health and hospital plan. The Labour Inspectorate has carried out a nationwide oversight at almost all ambulance stations. Supervision ends during these days and health establishments are at different levels of the supervisory review process in time. I am pleased that the Labour Inspectorate is carrying out such supervision. Health regions and health businesses, responsible for the ambulance service, have informed the Ministry of how to follow up findings and deviations and the instructions of the Labour Inspectorate. Reports of the supervision of health establishments show that biological health hazards have been identified due to insufficient procedures to distinguish clean and unclean areas in the wardrobes. There are also shortcomings in the procedures for cleaning and washing workwear. Another finding is the risk of health damage from violence, threats of violence and unfortunate mental stress. The lack of training of ambulance workers and the fact that ambulance workers are exposed to burdensome work and heavy lifting poses a risk of health damage. Health regions and health businesses take the findings and deviations identified by the Labour Inspectorate in the utmost seriousness. Measures have already been taken at regional and health level, and action plans have been drawn up for managers at all levels, for protection agents and for the individual ambulance workers. There is a strong link between patient safety and health, the environment and safety of ambulance staff. In the joint business meeting with health regions and through mission documents, I have clearly stated that the HMS work should be an integral part of the work on quality and patient safety. With regard to violence and threats of violence, I have been clear that there is a need for increased awareness of how to deal with this. In the joint follow-up meeting in January 2017, I demanded that the knowledge base of the trustees and the protection service be increased. Health undertakings shall develop common indicators to monitor developments and shall put in place measures to prevent and ensure preparedness for the management of violence and threats. I want to ask health regions for feedback on how they follow up findings and deviations that the Labour Inspectorate has revealed.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e1020	I thank you for your answer. It is not to hide that the economy of health enterprises is the premise of governance. Today, national guidelines are missing. The cars and uniforms are the same, and there is a requirement to have equal education, otherwise the rest is up to the individual health care provider. It means big differences, and the losing joint eventually becomes the patient. The Association of Ambulances has called for greater clarity of national guidelines. Is there anything the Council of State will consider?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e1029	There is always an assessment of the detail of national guidelines in each area, for national guidelines will in any case never deprive local management of the responsibility they have for ensuring patient safety, quality and health, the environment and safety of employees. The fact that we have a labour inspectorate that reveals relationships and that has a follow-up system is an important part of our way of ensuring good working conditions for employees. As Minister of Health, I have been very concerned about the health, environmental and safety work of the health care staff, and this is something we are constantly working on.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e1036	As we have seen a number of times now, it becomes too easy for the government and the Council of State to push health businesses ahead of them in the debate, without taking any concrete action on their own. As the Council of State certainly knows, the Central Party is very skeptical of the corporate model we have today. We believe that the organisation of hospitals needs to go back to political governance, where politicians are actually responsible and cannot, on every occasion, shift responsibility to health companies. So my question is, can the Council of State agree that today's business model doesn't work optimally?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e1043	I have to say that the Norwegian public owned hospitals and health services are politically run down. Health companies are managed by me as Minister of Health. The framework for hospitals is adopted here in Stortinget. The national health and hospital plan provides guidance for the development of healthcare, and precisely the prehospital services, which are the subject of this questionnaire, are one of the themes that will be addressed in the next health and hospital plan, precisely to provide policy guidance on how that service is to be developed. I have eight years of experience in managing hospitals as well as state politicians, and I know that the answer to this kind of question from the political leadership of a county council had not been very different from the answer I gave today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e1053	‘In the examination of the medicinal product notification in 2015, the Centre, following input from the Norwegian Pharmaceutical Association, proposed to the Government to carry out an independent investigation into the lack of medicinal products and return to the Stortinget with a concrete action plan to ensure preparedness for drug shortages in Norway. The proposal did not receive a majority. There are now reports of record drug shortages in Norway. Will the Council of State promote a plan of measures for the Storting in order to ensure the preparedness of medicinal products in Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e1058	No later than 6 February, I expressed concern that the number of cases of lack of medicinal products in Norway is increasing. The negative developments in 2018 continue into 2019. As I explained, a number of measures are already being implemented to address the emerging deficiencies. Most cases are resolved by the fact that the patient is given a similar medicinal product with a different strength or similar medicinal product from another manufacturer. Packs intended for other countries are also used or switched to other medicinal products with the same therapeutic effect. The Medical Products Agency, pharmacies and pharmaceutical wholesalers have established good cooperation procedures to provide patients with the medicines they need. So far, there have been few cases where the patient has not received satisfactory treatment. However, a lack that requires patients to switch medicinal products or that healthcare professionals have to change procedures leads to uncertainty and additional work. Last spring, the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness presented a risk analysis of the supply of medicinal products. In the light of this analysis, the Directorate-General for Health has been given the task of reviewing the full range of product preparations. Recommendations are scheduled to be delivered to the summer and will be followed up by the Ministry. This work will consider further measures to address the deficiencies. I have also asked the Swedish Medical Products Agency to draw up proposals for a legal framework in order to implement rationalisation in the event of a deficiency or a risk of a deficiency. Most of the deficiencies are due to conditions outside Norway, which we unfortunately have little control over. Major structural changes in the global pharmaceutical industry affect access to medicinal products and the main cause is manufacturing problems in industry. International cooperation is therefore essential in order to reduce the number of deficiencies. Norway participates in cooperation at Nordic, European and global level. In September, the Danish Health Minister and I signed an intention agreement on joint price negotiations on selected medicinal products. At the end of January, the competition grounds for the first tender were sent out at the hearing to the suppliers. The offer mainly includes medicinal products where there are difficulties in delivery, including antibiotics. We follow the situation closely and consider risk mitigation measures on an ongoing basis. This is an area of high attention to all the responsible actors.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e1075	I am sure that this theme is of great interest to all the actors mentioned by the Council of State. But I had a question about the Council of State going to put forward a plan of action for the Storting to secure drug preparedness in Norway. I couldn't tell myself that the council responded. I also know about the report that came from the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness, and that the Health Directorate has been given a mandate to make a recommendation. It is now so political that there are not all recommendations from the Health Directorate that the department joins 100 pst. When there are important things, they can often be presented to the Storting. Now, from Stortinget, we have called for a plan of measures, so I would like to ask again: when this recommendation comes, will a plan of measures be presented to the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e1082	It depends on the measures proposed by the Health Directorate. An action plan will not be natural to present to the Stortinget – it will only delay the start of action. What is important to me is that we now implement measures and get recommendations on new measures, and that these are implemented on an ongoing basis. In order to strengthen the national monitoring function for actions related to the deficiency situation, we established Deficit on 1 January 2016. They are monitoring the supply situation, identifying the scale of problems and deficiencies that arise, finding solutions and communicating them to all stakeholders. They are also involved in the planning of the development of national drug preparedness for specialist health services. A number of measures have been implemented here and new measures will be implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e1091	The Medication message was adopted by Stortingen, by this room. When there is such a serious area as lack of medicines and people may not have very important medicines available, I think it's natural that a government should deal with the Storting. Now it's actually insecure. It is not without reason that we are in question time so many times and ask: What is the government's action? Then I think it would have been natural to get a comprehensive plan – after we have received the professional recommendations – to which we can work and join. Where appropriate, there may be measures for which there is a political disagreement. I don't understand the refusal to get this out for Stortinget to a greater extent. There is also a difference between the lack of medicines. I'm concerned about what the government can do to those who are very essential, a la insulin, antibiotics, some anaesthetics, which are very precarious. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e1098	Councillor Höie, please.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e1103	The proposal of the representative, to have a separate case for Stortinget, was voted down by the Stortinget in connection with the notification of the medicinal product. I have also, on several occasions — after several questions and in debates — explained all the measures taken in this area and the processes under way. The size gets good information about the work that is being done. It is a continuous evaluation of the medicinal products needed to be in custody. It's a very professional question, which is assessed by those responsible, the Health Directorate and the Health Regions, respectively. What types of medicinal products need to build up a depot is therefore a matter that is continuously assessed, and it will also change over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e1113	‘VG writes on 14 February that the drug shortage in Norway was greater than ever in 2018, and that this has continued into 2019.What concrete measures does the Minister of Health take to prevent Norway from paying overprices for medicinal products and to ensure access to medicinal products in Norway, and will the Council of State take the initiative to re-establish a state drug depot?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e1118	It is true, as VG writes, that the negative development with the increase in notified drug shortage in 2018 continues into 2019, and I am also concerned. As I mentioned in my answer to the previous question, a number of measures are now being taken that have so far contributed to patients still receiving satisfactory treatment. In Norway, there are several instruments to help achieve the lowest possible price target for medicinal policy. The most important are the system of maximum price regulation of medicinal products subject to prescription, the step-by-step pricing scheme for generic medicinal products and hospital purchases, which negotiates and calls for tenders for purchase to hospitals. The lowest possible price is only one out of four pharmaceutical policy objectives to which the Storting joined in the treatment of the notification of medicinal products. Two of the other objectives concern equivalent and rapid access to effective medicinal products and ensuring good quality of treatment with medicinal products. It has been considered that the objectives need to be seen in the context. This means that pricing mechanisms cannot be seen independently of access and quality. Mechanisms have been introduced into the maximum price and step price regime, which must also ensure that balance sheet. Furthermore, in the tendering procedures, hospital procurement shall more closely assess the life cycle of a medicinal product and the criteria to be applied accordingly. Preparedness is also an important element of the new wholesale offer, for which Hospital Apotetes HF has recently published prior information. In 2015, health regions assumed responsibility for emergency-proof medicinal products used in the specialist healthcare system, in line with the emergency principles. At the same time, the national warehouse, which was managed by the Health Directorate, was closed. In order to strengthen the national monitoring and response function related to deficiencies established, the health regions were lagging behind on 1 January 2016. The Centre shall monitor the supply situation, identify the scale of problems and deficiencies that arise, find solutions and communicate them to all stakeholders. They shall also participate in the planning and construction of the national medical device for specialist health services. For medicinal products used in the primary health care, the wholesalers have been required, by the wholesale regulation of 1 January 2016, to keep a stock equal to the normal consumption of selected medicinal products for two months. Of course, I expect the Health Directorate, in its new review of drug preparedness, to also consider the need for possible national stocks in addition to this as a possible risk reduction measure.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e1137	Norway has a minimal self-production of medicinal products. The country is dependent on importing and will be exposed if a long-term lack of medicinal products occurs. Norwegian Medisinaldepot was originally state owned, but was sold to a German company in 2001. As a result, the prices of medicinal products have increased and the availability of medicinal products has declined. Does the Council of State think that today's system provides adequate pharmaceutical safety for the residents of Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e1144	Overall, we have good pharmaceutical safety in Norway, although there is an increase in the number of medicinal product deficiencies notified. However, this is managed in such a way that patients’ treatment options are rarely affected. These are mainly problems arising in the international market. Internationally, the production of medicinal products is concentrated in very few countries in the world. So this isn't a problem that only Norway is facing. This is a problem facing most countries in the world, for there are very few countries that have a national pharmaceutical production on a scale of preparedness. The situation is therefore that we need to ensure that, in a preparedness context, we have good agreements and solutions, in line with other countries. The challenge for Norway is that we are a small market. That's also one of the reasons why we, among other things. has entered into cooperation with Denmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e1153	The withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the EU without an agreement may lead to further restrictions on access to medicinal products in Norway, under the Ministry of Justice and Defence. As you can see, the drug shortage in the country is already record high. What kind of emergency measures does the Council of State work to prevent the drug shortage in Norway from becoming even greater, as a result of a possible breach without an agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e1160	Yes, Norway’s participation in the EEA and in European drug cooperation is an extremely important instrument for both our drug preparedness and our ability to access new medicines quickly and effectively. It is a fact that I hope the Centre Party places greater emphasis on in its view of European cooperation in the future. Brexit is a challenge for us, as the Minister of Justice has also explained. This is a work that we work with and follow closely. Another challenge for Brexit is that the European Medicines Agency is located in London. This means that a parallel construction of the new European Medicines Agency is now taking place in Amsterdam. A Brexit and its transfer to a new centre may also lead to delays in the authorisation of new medicinal products, which are a negative effect of the United Kingdom’s exit from the EU. However, Norway is very clearly linked to the European Medicines Community.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e1174	This issue is postponed to the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e1182	This question, from the representative Cecilie Myrseth to the Minister of Defence, has been transferred to the Minister of Health who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e1187	‘The NRC has recently revealed in a number of headlines that Norway is lacking in medical preparedness for war. Chief of Emergency Medical Clinic at the University Hospital North Norway, Jon Mathisen, said the following to the NRK: «The situation today, we have no medical preparedness for war.» Mathisen also states that as long as the mission is not well informed by the central authorities, it is also not possible to make concrete plans. What are the Government's plans for medical preparedness for war?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e1192	In the light of new framework security policy conditions since 2014, the Government has been paying more attention to preparedness for armed conflict and war. The Ministry of Health and Welfare has involved the health regions in this work, and they have organised and participated in emergency planning, exercises and other cooperation projects. Cooperation is being conducted by the Department of Health and Health Directorate of the Health Protection Council. Since 2016, the health sector’s projects have been included in the Total Defence Programme, managed by the Ministry of Justice and Defence. The defence and health regions have recently set up a system to provide the defence with access to protected health professionals, such as nurses, pharmacists, doctors, radiographers and ambulance staff. We now have a system that will improve health preparedness in Defence, while at the same time ensuring the need for critical competence of civil health services. Cooperation shows how society's overall resources can be used for increased preparedness both in peacetime and in any armed conflict and war situation. Health services are responsible for providing the necessary health care to the civilian population and military soldiers — in a war situation as well as in peacetime. Health services should include, inter alia: be prepared to provide health care by evacuation of a large number of civilians and when many are injured by acts of war or for other reasons. A comprehensive concept for the medical evacuation of mass damage in peace, crisis and war has been developed. This concept was practiced when health services participated in the largest NATO exercise in Norway in recent times. The health sector carried out national health exercises, coordinated with Trident Juncture 2018. The exercises took place in Kristiansund, Tynset, Orkdal and Elverum, as well as general examinations in Ørland. Through these exercises, we have had a unique opportunity to train in mass damage management and warfare with chemical agents along with the Defence, NATO and the volunteer organizations. We are now going to use the experience to further develop health preparedness plans in cooperation with the Defence Agency. This government has done a great deal in recent years to put in place a good medical preparedness for mass damage and war management. In addition, we have gained a lot of knowledge about the emergency situation through extensive exercises. We are now going to include this in the further work. I remember the statements it refers to, and of course we will also use this as useful input to further clarify our work in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e1209	This is a little different from what has been found in the opinions of a lot of competent disciplines when it comes to emergency medicine. You can ask yourself, "When you've developed plans and exercises, you've forgotten to involve the hospitals in it." Because that's really a crack in what's being said. I record that Director Larsen in Health Nord believes that you have plans, while for example. The head of the Defence Sanitation said that you have started working on plans, but admits that it is challenging and inadequate. So that's a lot of crack. What is my question to the Minister now is: How have hospitals been training warlike situations in the last ten years, and is the minister satisfied with the situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e1216	No, if I were satisfied with the situation, I wouldn't have given the range of assignments I've given in this area. The matter to which the representative refers, which was on Dagsrevyen, came in parallel with the fact that the Minister of Defence and I launched a new agreement between the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Health and Welfare on the military-stable health cooperation. It is precisely some of the issues that were addressed in that article — facilitating cooperation, exercises where healthcare professionals are aware that they have different roles in this context. In practice for that kind of situation, we've just had a very big exercise, from which we're now going to gain experience. The more general preparedness exercises carried out continuously in healthcare relate to the same emergency situations as one also exercises in a situation of war or crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e1225	What you're saying is that you can use the same plans for peacetime crises as in wartime. In that case, there are quite a number of people who disagree with it. You need your own plans for wartime. My last question to the minister is about an opinion that is superior to UNN Mads Gilbert, who has very good experience in being in a war situation, came along. He says that there is no one in the public health system who has trained in such a situation as a war is, or has the necessary knowledge, and that you don't have the necessary equipment either. My question is: what will the Minister do specifically to follow up, to ensure that public health professionals are given the necessary knowledge and training, and that necessary equipment is in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e1232	First of all, I didn't say that one should use the same plans in war situations as one has in peacetime. What I said is that much of what healthcare does in peacetime is also useful in war and crisis situations, for example. related to emergency and mass damage situations. It's something quite different than that it's the same plans that apply. On the contrary, a comprehensive concept has been developed for example: medical evacuation of mass damage in peace, crisis and war. This concept was practiced, so it is also not correct that this is not practiced. It was recently practiced through the largest NATO exercise in Norway in recent times. Then one carried out this national health exercise. The practice took place in Kristiansund, Tynset, Orkdal and Elverum as well as in Ørland. These experiences will be used throughout the healthcare system as part of my mission.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e1240	‘The world’s insects will be eradicated in 100 years at the pace of the day. Many pollinating insects are red-listed because they lose habitats due to the development, cultivation and drainage, agriculture and forestry and re-growth of cultural landscapes. The sum of current policies to address natural diversity is not sufficient to ensure that Norway does not contribute to the mass death of insects. Does the Council see the need for a reverse operation for Norwegian nature protection, land use and agriculture in order to prevent Norwegian and global insect death?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e1245	A new report on insects in the Biological Conservation journal is alarming and must be taken very seriously. It shows that over 40 pst. the decline of the world’s insect species and the threat of one third. It is estimated that the amount of insects is reduced by 2,5 pst. per year. Insects are a fundamental component of most ecosystems. They're decomposers of dead organic matter, they pollinate plants, and they're food for other animals. Land use change, pollution, alien species and climate change threaten our insects and other species. So we're working on a lot of measures to reduce the negative effects. Protection and sustainable use of the land require cross-sectoral cooperation. The budgets for endangered nature and the control of alien species have increased significantly since 2013. Furthermore, in the same period, it is granted close to 2.4 billion. kr for forest protection. Further protection processes in other ecosystems are also well under way. Agriculture has arrangements for the care and care of the habitats of insects in cultural landscapes and forests. Efforts on organic farming and the reduction of the use of pesticides are also important. In addition, reducing the loss of bogs will both prevent increased greenhouse gas emissions and take care of insects. The pollinator strategy launched last year is followed up by a cross-sectoral action plan in 2019. However, we need more information on the state and impact factors of insects in Norway. The Norwegian Institute of Natural Research, commissioned by the Environment Directorate, has recently produced a report proposing the monitoring of insects throughout the country. This will be followed up by means for testing methodology already this year. The representative, Bastholm, asks if I see the need for a reverse operation for Norwegian nature protection, land use and agriculture to prevent Norwegian and global insect death. Today, we have good grips and are implementing many measures both in the environmental sector and in other sectors. If we need a major spin-off, we need more knowledge about the situation of insects in Norway. What we know is that we need to strengthen efforts further and further develop measures to protect insects and ecosystems.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e1260	I'm personally very alarmed, and I think it's in place to remember the seriousness here. Insects are nature's gear. They are food for animals and birds, which again is food for humans. They pollinate and pollinate the fruit trees. Without insects, no apples. Without insects, humans eventually disappear – so simple and so scary. More knowledge is very good, but we have more than enough knowledge to initiate commitments. The pollinator strategy proposed by the government last year was criticised by several environmental organisations for being too vague and non-committal, among others. by Sabima, who recommends distorting agricultural subsidies in order to make the maintenance of cultural landscapes more profitable. And here I think we're into something essential because the insects are falling between chairs today. It is because of many different measures across departments that the areas of insects are weakened. In the strategy, the government announces that the Environment Directorate will draw up an action plan. My question is then: will the action plan be committed to the responsibilities of other departments, for example: agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e1269	Now I said the situation is serious, and the international situation really has to be taken seriously. We know a lot about some insects in Norway, but we don't have a good enough overview of the overall picture. That is why this year we are launching a pilot in charge of NINA to get a better monitoring system to know more – not only about the rare species, we know a lot about them, but also to know more about the common species and how development is there, so that we can better take action in the years to come. What I also say is that we have measures in a number of areas, whether it be forestry or agriculture, and we have a strategy for pollinators. It is an overall strategy, and now we are going to start a plan of action for it as well. We also need a pollinator forum that will be launched today, so that we can always learn what works best in the years to come. And yes, there must be coordination between different sectors. We also have that in agriculture, where there must be measures to preserve cultural landscapes. Selected cultural landscapes have doubled in recent years, and there will always be a part of farming to bring about ever better action.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e1276	I hope the Council of State understood the difference and the nuances in my question. One thing is to give e.g. Ministry of Agriculture a package of measures. The other thing is to commit those who are responsible for, for example: negotiations on the agricultural settlement on behalf of the State to also work for measures to meet the needs of the Community for the conservation of insects. The same is true in municipalities – and that is a separate question. Green municipal government representatives around Norway are constantly saying that they need to fight to ensure that the areas of animals, nature and insects in the municipalities are not built. This is often not very popular. For example, in the district I live in, Grünerløkka, our municipal committee member has had to work quite hard to ensure that a temporary kindergarten would not remain in an area that is very important for pollinators in the district. My question is whether the Council of State can do anything to encourage or oblige local politicians around.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e1285	Firstly, the pollinator strategy: precisely because it includes many departments, there are many departments behind it, among others. Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Transport, together with the Ministry of Climate and Environment. There are also more without me remembering everyone. This is precisely because it requires action in several areas. I believe – from personal experience and as I know many left-wing politicians in the country – that they are also fighting to keep the green areas around the country. Therefore, in order to support the work they do, we also need the knowledge of the state of the insects in Norway and what action is needed. I would also recommend the representative at Grünerløkka, as far as the temporary nursery is concerned, to have contact with his party traps in the City Council of Oslo to settle the specific matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e1297	The question is: ‘Through the media, we are aware that the Council of State warns Norwegian students against applying for studies in the United Kingdom because of the uncertainty associated with Brexit. The opinion is later moderated to students applying for Erasmus+. Although there are other schemes that students can apply for, the warning issued by the Council of State has created uncertainty and ambiguity for Norwegian young people who want to study in the United Kingdom. Will the government initiate bilateral agreements to continue the student exchange between Norway and the United Kingdom?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e1304	The United Kingdom is one of our most important cooperation countries in higher education. They have good institutions, and the language barrier is small. Of the approx. The 5 000 Norwegian students who are in the United Kingdom each year are about 500 exchange students. The majority of these are in exchange through the Erasmus+ programme. The government has ambitious student exchange objectives and, in order to achieve these objectives, it is important that Norway maintains good cooperation with the United Kingdom. At present, there is considerable uncertainty about the outcome of the brexit process. If there is a breach of agreement on 29 March, the United Kingdom is very likely to be outside the Erasmus+ programme, such as: organises student exchanges in Europe. If that happens, it is very uncertain whether it will be possible to travel on exchange to the United Kingdom through Erasmus+ in the autumn of 2019. I believe it is right for us to inform about this uncertainty. In the media, unfortunately, it has been presented as a warning to all students who want to study in the United Kingdom. From my point of view, it has always been about Erasmus+ students, and I have therefore also gone out and clarified it. An important measure to ensure that student exchanges to and from the United Kingdom can continue independently of Brexit is the establishment of several bilateral agreements between higher education institutions in Norway and the United Kingdom. There are already many such agreements, and as I understand it, there are several institutions that are now working to secure even more such agreements. At that time it is too early to say anything about the need for any bilateral agreements at authority level. When the outcome of the Brexit process is clear, I will assess whether further action is needed to ensure continued student exchange between Norway and the United Kingdom. If a bilateral agreement at ministerial or government level is considered useful, there is absolutely something I am prepared to do. I will also go to the United Kingdom at the beginning of March to get the best possible information from the British authorities on how this can affect our students, and what measures we should consider in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e1321	The United Kingdom is one of the most popular countries for Norwegian students, with internationally leading places of study. It may seem that it is in the government’s interest to create negative attitudes to brexit in general rather than seeing the opportunities for brexit open up to Norway’s relationship with the United Kingdom. The European University Association and the Universities UK work to prepare universities for a hard Brexit. When the Council of State says that she understands it so that Norwegian institutions also work on it, the Central Party wonders whether this is a defensive attitude, and a lot of unnecessary uncertainty is created. The Centre for Global Programmes at the University of York organises exchange studies for students from all over the world, stressing that Norwegian students are still most welcome. How will the government take an active approach to Brexit and secure student exchanges with the United Kingdom in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e1328	As I said in my post, the United Kingdom is one of the most important cooperation countries we have when it comes to student exchange. But let me also make it clear: Brexit is a wild policy by the United Kingdom, and it has consequences. In the field of research and higher education, I still have the advantage of seeing a single positive effect of Brexit. On the contrary, there is a negative effect on negative effect. One thing is student exchange, which is largely affected by the fact that important and large programmes such as the Erasmus+ programme are EU programmes that the United Kingdom is now at risk of being outside. Of course, it affects British students, but it also affects other European students. Higher education and research cooperation is important at international level, and brexit prevents, rather than foster, such important cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e1335	It's just this defensive position the Center Party will have taken. Several teams have pointed out that Brexit could have a positive impact on Norwegian students who want to take part or all of their education in the United Kingdom. It is now a challenge for universities in the United Kingdom to operate at very high school rates, among others. due to high competition between students across Europe. Less competition for places and lower school fees could be the consequence of Brexit for Norwegian students. Does the Council agree that Brexit could make Norwegian students more attractive when admitted to British universities, and therefore there is no basis for discouraging Norwegian young people from applying for education in the United Kingdom?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e1342	I think I have a completely different basic attitude to Brexit and European cooperation than the one the representative has. I believe that cooperation in Europe is crucial to achieving good higher education and good research. Brexit will make it harder, not easier to operate with cooperation. It will split up environments, not collect environments. I believe that Brexit is a shock and a warning for those who want less cooperation in Europe rather than more cooperation in Europe. Norwegian students are attractive in the United Kingdom. They're still going to be attractive in the United Kingdom. Norwegian students pay a lot of school money and are thus also attractive to British universities. It is one of our most important cooperation countries – not just because it is close to us, but because there are small language barriers. They have some of Europe's best universities. So to cooperate with the United Kingdom, we're going to do -- whether it's going to be a hard brexit or it's going to be an agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e1353	«Was the Chinese company Huawei could have been at First House while the Minister of Justice was a partner in the same company?»
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e1358	In my time in First House, I haven't had Huawei as a customer. With regard to the question of whether First House has had Huawei as a customer, it must be addressed to First House.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e1363	I would remind the Council of State that his mission is no longer to protect the secret customers of his former company. When Wara agreed to Erna Solberg's question of becoming Minister of Justice and Defence, he was given responsibility for the security of the Norwegian people. What I'm asking is not whether the Council of State has worked for Chinese interests in the past. We know that he has done so, based on a customer list that has already been published. But the question is whether the Council of State has had financial interests related to a company that is linked to Chinese intelligence, against which the security authorities in countries by country warn, and against which the PST has also issued clear warnings. Therefore, I would ask the Council of State to respond specifically to: Has the Council of State had financial interests related to Huawei as a company?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e1368	When I quit as an employee in the private business after 25 years, I wound up all my interests and all my interests. So I am not incapacitated with previous employers or with previous customers. You're incapacitated if you have financial interests in Huawei, and I don't, and I don't have close family or close friends there, so by definition I'm not. The same really applies to the question if I had worked for Huawei. Now it is to be appropriate that I reply that I have not done so, but if the representative believes that I am incapacitated, he should say it clearly and do not make any dark references.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e1376	I ask the Minister of Justice a specific question. From the past part of the former customer list to the First House Council of State has been published. But the Council of State was the joint owner of that company, and what is the question, and which has a public interest, is what economic interests the Council of State has had in the past. And it could be either in the time he was a partner in First House, or it could be in other contexts. That's why I ask the Council of State again: Has the Council of State previously had financial interests related to Huawei as a company?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e1381	I understand that it may be a little difficult for the representative to understand how business works. I've been in business for 25 years, so I understand the representative has a hard time understanding how it works. It's like in business you have customers, that's a very important part of the way you do business. It is also true that during the years I have been in business, I have been a partner in companies that have probably had thousands of customers – thousands of customers. It is also the case in business that private-law contracts are concluded between customers and the contracting entity on how to handle the assignment and the information – and then, after what I understand, the representative now asks me to break some private-law contracts. That means that he believes that the Minister of Justice should break the agreements he has concluded. The representative, as far as I can see, has a background from politics and no to the EU, but that is how it works in business.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e1389	In the summer, I visited Halden objectively for some concerns from the Halden legal community and from others associated with the district court. They were worried about merging with Fredrikstad's district court pending a new janitor. Last week, the news came that four of Østfold's district courts have concluded a merger agreement. The hedge and Frøland court, the fifth district court, have reserved: ‘What leadership has the government provided for the future location of the district courts in Eastfold?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e1396	It has reached agreement through a local initiative, assimilated by the Court of Justice, on the merging of four out of five district courts in Eastfold. The Intention Agreement was concluded on 12 February 2019 and concerns the District Courts of Fredrikstad, Halden, Moss and Sarpsborg. I have become aware that there have been discussions in Eastfold, but neither the government nor I have had any role or given leadership for the process of merging the rights of property. I am aware that, in a short time, the administration of the Court of Justice will take the initiative of a local meeting to explain the merger process and to get input from stakeholders and politicians. If local agreement is reached and the basis for a merger is otherwise well established, the Ministry will normally send the matter out on a broad public hearing. Based on the feedback from the hearings, a merger case for the Storting in the budget proposal may be promoted. The Intention Agreement in Eastfold must be viewed in the light of the Great Britain's leadership in future mergers of District Courts. In its review of the 2016 State Budget, the majority of the Committee indicated that if changes to the structure were locally requested, a process of good discussions and processes locally related to aggregation must be carried out. They also indicated that it is important to ensure that both the municipality and employees in the court are properly involved. If, after such a process, local consensus was reached, the majority had no objections to a merger. Prop.1 S for 2018–2019 states that the Court of Justice and the Ministry will continue to follow up local processes on changes in the court structure. Aggregation will be adopted where there is local consensus, or where it speaks for other special reasons. The intention agreement provides for the co-location of the rights of property as soon as possible after a merger has been decided. The aim is that, where appropriate, co-location should take place by 2024. It has, as I understand it, so far has not been discussed where any merger of the rights of property should be co-located. If merging becomes a reality, localization is something the court administration has to decide on.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e1405	It is true that this is a local initiative. At the same time, I find it strange that there is going to be a little less than six months before the Court of Justice's work is to be clear, a work that has relatively strong leadership in this regard with the merger, specialisation and possibly centralisation of the courts. As the Minister of Justice also said, emphasis should be placed on local processes, good discussions and local consensus. How will you ensure that you get a local anchor in the four locations of these district rights today, and how much will you pay attention to the input from the local environment?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e1412	This process, I think, is important to remember that it has its background in an initiative also from the Stortinget. It is the Stortinget who has described that where there are good processes and a local initiative, there is nothing against it. The court administration will further facilitate the process. Both employees and municipalities shall be involved. And then we'll see what we get to finally. As I said, it is not my initiative, but the matter will come to my table in an ordinary way if agreement is reached.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e1417	It's good to hear that you want to listen to the locals. I also hope that you will listen to the municipalities, who will then give a hearing opinion. But Eastfold's fifth district court, Heggen and Frøland, is a relatively small but effective district court serving about 50,000 inhabitants. They have opted to stand out of the agreement with the four other courts, including: in order to await the conclusion of the Court of Justice Commission, but also because there will be an unnatural situation with one common court in Eastfold, as the flows of movements mainly follow the east-west axes along E18 and E6. An alternative here is likely to be collaboration with Follo. The government’s representatives in Inner Eastfold believe that Inner Eastfold is large enough for the Heggen and Frøland districts. Does the Minister of Justice agree with that, and can he make sure that the law on the Wicked will pass?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e1422	Now the representative asks me to lead a process that I have not yet received on my table. I have also not received the work of the Court of Justice Commission on my table. When they come, I expect them to be investigated and well evaluated, and then I'll assess it. I don't want to prejudge what's going on there. But I think it's interesting to think that there's going to be some local initiative in this case. I think that we, as central authorities, can listen a little bit to local initiatives and take them into account. This can be a good starting point for the policy we are going to pursue.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e1429	So the ordinary questioning strategy is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-20.ana.ud519e1443	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
