ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e29	The called alternate of the Sogn and Fjordane counties, Steinar Ness, now takes the seat. The representative of Arild Grande will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e39	On behalf of the representatives of Hadia Tajik, Lise Christoffersen, Eigil Knutsen, Ingvild Kjerkol and myself, I will present a proposal for a better overview of pay and working conditions. This is, moreover, the first Document 8 to be presented with the new legislation, which no longer requires the large-scale representatives to sign the proposal. It's a small step for humanity, but a gigantic leap for the big ones. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e46	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e62	The Stortinget received on Monday a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State will meet Anniken Hauglie, Åse Michaelsen and Kjell-Børge Freiberg for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e71	My question goes to the Minister of Labour. Today, exactly one year has passed since the trade union movement demonstrated outside the United Kingdom in frustration that their jobs are being displaced by rent, and that Norwegian pay and working conditions are being put under pressure. They were hoping that there were parties in this hall that would do something about it. And there was. The Labour Party wants a safe and fair working life with permanent, full jobs and a wage to live on. Together with the parties on the left and the Christian People's Party, we had the pressure in place for a historical tightening in the access to rental. It happened against the will of the right parties. Prime Minister Erna Solberg called this one of the government's greatest defeats when she summed up before the summer last year. It may not be surprising that one is hesitant and reluctant to follow up on one of its greatest defeats. So let's see. The new rules came into force on 1 January of this year, and immediately we saw a series of attempts to get away from the legislation. Media disclosures have been made about illegal hiring and about staff employed in the manning industry who have to take advantage of 5-percent contracts, new, inventive contracts that provide low or no safety for jobs, but where those who are hired are not allowed to work for other employers without the approval of the percentage employer. Then it was that the government thought that this legislation would cause major problems in the workplace. I have not received any signals that there are major problems, but this still poses problems for workers who meet the old attitude. It thrives with agreements that are designed to get away. My question is: Does the Council of State consider that these disclosures of 5-percent contracts and contracts with low job breaks where the same employer determines whether additional work can be done by others is in line with Storting's intentions and decisions?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e86	First of all, let me just remind the representative, Gahr, that it was this government that put forward a proposition to tighten the rules of rental last year, among other things. to bring to life the so-called zero-hour contracts. So the right opposition wanted to go beyond what the government did. We don't know the consequences of that yet. It's too early to say, the rules have just come into force. It is also true that some notices have been made recently about contracts down to 5 pst. Whether they're legal or not, it's hard for some of us to comment here, but it's obvious that any attempt to circumvent law and regulation is unfortunate, and something that we obviously don't want. Whether there has been a circumvention of the law in these examples, we do not know, but what is quite clear, and what was also the basis of the proposition made by the government is that any contract of employment should be real, the scope of employment should be real, you should know how much to work, you should know when to work, and you should know where to work, just to ensure the predictability that you had not experienced with the previous contracts. It is important for me to stress that we agree that fixed employment should be the general rule. We agree that we should have a safe, serious work life. That fight fight fights in many arenas. One is to tighten up legislation, the other is to combat unprofessional actors through the efforts of the government, among others. in the new strategy against a-krim, which we have developed together with the parties and the supervisory authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e95	This government put forward proposals – yes, it was supposed to be missing. The grandma asked for it. And it did it reluctantly. We have addressed this since December 2014, so there has been a matter that both the trade union movement and the parties at Stortinget have been concerned about. That government presented was not good enough for the Storting, so it was pressured to extend the scheme. What's clear here is that what you're against is that you're not following up badly. It is the government's clear responsibility to ensure that the Storting's will is followed up. One of the reasons why this is happening out there is that supervision is too poor. It should, of course, be that, when new rules are put in place, supervision must be immediately in place in order to reduce the old behaviour to be changed and to trace to new behaviour requested by the law. The follow-up and control and the clarity of ensuring the rules are too poor, and the impression that comes then is that you can continue as before. The majority of the population who adopted the restrictions opened up to give the supervisory responsibility for the illegal lease-in to the Labour Inspectorate. Unfortunately, the Christian People's Party jumped off and prided itself on the government's clear assurances that they would clean up. Now it's been a year. The government has worked on lowgir, and examples from the media show that there are major consequences. Why has the government not ensured that the new rental rules are followed up through good supervision?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e104	The opening rules entered into force on 1 January 2019. They've just begun to work. And we follow up the decision of the Storting – each and every one of them is followed up, of course, it should just be missing. One of the decisions requires a little more investigation, including: because this means that the competence of the Labour Inspectorate is likely to change. Of course, we have to figure out how to do that, and we're going to do that with the parties. What the representative Gahr Støre is jumping over is that there has been a great deal of disagreement between the parties about how to resolve the lease-in discussion. This is also the background to the fact that the proposal we presented to the Stortinget was a balanced proposal that took account of the wishes and needs of the various parties. We thought we were able to find a balanced solution to that. There the opposition disagreed and wanted to go further. The consequence of that is too early to say. I already see that there are several people who are calling for a ban on all types of rentals. I think it would be very unfortunate for large parts of Norwegian not only business, but also work life, which today depends on being able to hire labour in order to solve the statutory tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e111	It opens follow-up questions – first Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e116	It has never been the Labour Party's line to ban temporary workers or rents. It's possible in parts of the regions where the condition is particularly serious. But we haven't gone into it. What's interesting here is: yes, it came into force on 1 January, but it's been a topic for a year, and then you have to unravel the competences of the supervisory authorities after it comes into force. That's what I think is crazy order and testifies again that it's quite reluctant. The fact that there is a difference of view between the social partners is not surprising. There are parts of the employer’s side that have wanted the tenancy system. Other parts of the employer’s side, which are serious actors, do not want to. But the point here has been to follow up the employee, who stood before the Storting a year ago, pointed out, namely that people at work are getting poor, unsafe jobs and not all, permanent jobs with this system. And once again, I have to ask the question: Why has it not been from day one when a new regulation comes, that there has been a supervision of competence, authority and authority to follow the rules?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e127	All decisions taken in this Chamber on rentals are followed up by the government. It is very difficult for the government to follow up a decision that has not yet been taken. At the moment the decisions are taken, we follow up, of course. Some of the decisions relating to supervision could significantly change the competence of the Labour Inspectorate, and of course we must also assess the consequences. Then it is also important to stress, as I said in my first answer, that much of this work is done along different axes than through the supervision of the Labour Inspectorate. We now have a strong commitment to work-life crime, to unprofessional actors, together with the social partners and with the supervisory authorities, which shows that we are now able to take far more unprofessional than we have ever been able to do. It is also not right that we do not follow up on supervision. The Labour Inspectorate now has more supervision than in the past and advises more than in the past. And what we see is that the results are good: you take more, and it becomes safer and more serious in Norwegian working life now than it has been in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e136	Arild Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e141	Yesterday, I met three workers, Drum, Bjørn and Olav, who have been on strike for 261 days for something that should have been a matter of course: the right to a collective agreement. The company they work for does not meet them only with a cold debt in terms of the requirement for a collective agreement, it has not had apprentices in seven years, even if it has signed a contract with the public, which requires apprentices. It operates with organized strike breaking, and after New Year it also operated with illegal rental. The example shows that enterprises that break one part of the Working Environment Act would like to break other parts of it. When you break the new rental rules, there are some pretty different things that aren't on care. Does it not seem to the Council of State that it is precisely the Labour Inspectorate that should supervise the new legislation, as they also have competence in other parts of the Working Environment Act?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e149	Let me say: I fully agree with the representative that it is very unfortunate that these types of actors can operate. I do not know the matter in addition to what was said by the representative Grande, but we do not want unprofessional actors in Norwegian working life. That's why we've also intensified the work of opening them up. We have provided three strategies against labour crime, in cooperation with the parties and the supervisory authorities. We see that it gives us results. Some of the things we have done include: to tighten the rules for public acquisitions, the number of contracts and also to have apprentices. We have also been very clear in the letters of assignment last year and this year to all public enterprises that they have an obligation to follow up their contracts, that they are kept – contrary to what the representative here says – that obviously one thing has been done. They shall follow up their contracts, and they shall also report on them, for the public sector must go ahead in order to close out unprofessional operators. This is something we're also going to follow. We now have more measures in our strategy against unprofessional actors – to unlock the unprofessional.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e156	Arild Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e161	We have tried to be clear to the state councils that are responsible, for example. in this case, where it is the Minister of Transport who is responsible for the State Road Service, but the message from the government is that they are very pleased with the way public enterprises organise their contracts. When you have both a lack of follow-up from those who are responsible as government councillors, and a lack of supervision, the government's message is really: it's clear to continue as before for the manning industry. We see that the manning industry has not intended to take that responsibility, does not want to take that responsibility, or is not able to take that responsibility. And this is so serious that it has to be stronger to get cleaned up once and for all. Is the Council of State willing – if we see that the many breaches of the lease-in provisions continue, if we see that 5-percent contracts continue – to assess the exemptions provided for in the Working Environment Act and have a limited ban until we are cleared up once and for all?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e168	There was some lobster and canary, I'd say, on this question. Firstly, it is not right that the government is not preoccupied with the public sector in the fight against labour crime. That is why – paragraph 1 – we have tightened up the procurement rules on what public authorities should focus on when contracts are concluded, in the case of tenders for the public sector. That's what this government introduced. The second is, as I said in my previous answer, that in the letters of assignment to all public enterprises we have also said that they have an obligation to follow up their contracts, and report about it. It is precisely because we have to make sure that it is not just enough to conclude a contract, it must also be followed up, and it has to be reported on, to ensure that the unprofessional operators hatch, that the contracts are followed. That's what this government did. So it's suggested by the representative Grande that the crew industry as a whole and as such is a bunch of bandits. That's not right. There is now a whole new regulatory framework to be adapted to – and, of course, to – the manning industry. And we're going to make sure that they do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e179	Per Olaf Lundtigen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e184	The majority of the population, with the Christian People's Party, stressed that we had to have a well-organized working life, because that was the prerequisite for family security. We had some restrictions in the Working Environment Act, and everyone thought that we would also get the Labour Inspectorate to follow up the limitations of the Work Environment Act attached to the Working Environment Act § 14-12. Now the committee has just given up, and there's a proposal from the Central Party where we asked for it, and the government parties oppose it. The government parties say that this needs to be investigated and heard first. My question is then: When will the Council of State promote a case and send it to the hearing, so that there can be as soon as possible an agreement between the Working Environment Act and the tasks of the Labour Inspectorate?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e189	The representative Lundtigen says that the majority in this room want a well-organised working life, and keeps the position parties out of it. We agree that there is a unanimous consensus in this Chamber that we should have a well-organised working life with serious employers who respect the rights of employees, how regular employment should be the general rule. Let's take that into account. It is also good that, after all, we have a working life in which most people thrive and do well at work. A proposal was then adopted in connection with the lease-in proposal, which could significantly change the competence of the Labour Inspectorate, among other things. by enabling the Labour Inspectorate to supervise contracts governed by private law, which the Labour Inspectorate has never done. It is my duty as the Council of State to follow the investigation manual and make the necessary investigations of what it means for the Labour Inspectorate, but also of what is purely a matter of principle. Once we've completed that investigation and we're doing well, of course I'm going to present this to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e196	Per Olaf Lundtigen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e201	There are many fine words here in the hall about a well-organized working life, but they're not words that apply – it's law, it's precision, it's follow-up. That's the opposition's position, and we're glad we got through it. And then the role of the Labour Inspectorate remains. The Act was adopted in June 2018. The government has not yet said anything about what they will come with, and the Council of State does not respond when it will. Most people think, according to practice, that there has to be an instance here to make sure that the law is followed. I would like to repeat my question: When does the Council of State come with the consultation document that will form the basis for giving the Labour Inspectorate a task to follow up § 14-12, inter alia, in the Working Environment Act?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e208	I agree with the representative, Mr Lundtegen, that these are not words as the numerator; they are facts as the numerator. What we see in Norwegian working life is that we basically have a very good working life, where nine out of ten thrive on work. There is a high level of trust between employees and employers — it is health-promoting for most. Then we see that this does not apply to everyone, and of course we will take that into account, but I would warn against creating Norwegian working life as something other than what it is – it is actually very good. After the Stortinget took the different decisions last June, we started to investigate what is going on with the Labour Inspectorate's competence. But there's a pretty big change that you'll have to do if you're going to do what the Storting has decided, and it's important that we investigate the consequences of it. I am concerned that one should be heard. We have to send it to the hearing in order to get recordings and views, and we will also discuss with the parties how, if necessary, to change the Labour Inspectorate to oversee private-law agreements, as the Labour Inspectorate has never done. There will be another type of supervision. We will present the matter as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e217	Per Olaf Lundtigen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e223	I understand that it is not a very priority on the part of the Council of State to get the follow-up in place, but I will move on to a new topic: temporary employment in the employment agencies. In connection with Prop. 73 L for 2017-2018, the government discussed the issue of temporary employment in recruitment agencies and ended up proposing a change in law that would allow temporary employment of temporary staff, a new Section 14-9, second paragraph, point (g). However, that proposal did not receive a majority in the Grand Duchy. We now have access to temporary agency companies according to the first paragraph of Section 14-12, which is vicariates, and the second paragraph of Section 14-12, which is subject to agreements with a trade union with the right to cancel at the lessee when it is longer. Under both of these legal paragraphs, staff hired from temporary staff must be permanently employed in the agency either on a full-time or part-time basis. Do the Councils agree to this?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e230	Let me first refute what the representative claims that this is not a priority on the part of the Council of State. Of course, it's a priority on the part of the Council of State to follow up the decision of the Storting, and as I say, we're doing an investigation. Once the investigation has been completed, it shall be consulted and consultation shall be considered. It's not very long since this was adopted, and it's a pretty thorough investigation that needs to be done, so it's not right that you don't prioritize it. But you also have to respect and understand that you have to do the necessary investigative work to do. Yes, the Storting made a number of changes to the lease-in provisions that make it more difficult for the recruitment agencies now compared to the previous legislation. That was also the purpose. We just want to have as many regular and regular jobs as possible in the agencies.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e237	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e242	I think the Council of State has to give clearer answers in terms of renting, because what we experience here is a government council that is busy painting the situation in Norwegian working life, while the reality is that the differences in working life are increasing, the ten percent that are the worst paid, have not had real wage growth at all in the last decade, social dumping is a serious problem in a number of industries – and then we'll just hear about everything that's good. What we need is a government council that is willing to address the problems that exist, and fight the growing inequality. Part of it is the follow-up to the new lease-in provisions. I met trust-elects from the Joint Union and Norwegian Food and Drug Workers' Association in Bergen two weeks ago. They showed me the contracts they are now holding. Parts of the manning industry try to circumvent the new legislation in respect of zero-hour contracts, such as: employment rate 8,33 pst. and the employment rate 3,8 pst. This is the labour society. This is a mockery of the workers. What will the Council of State do with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e249	It is possible that the representative Lysbakken does not closely follow up on what is happening in Norwegian working life at the moment. The reality is that we do a lot to combat unprofessional actors. At the beginning of February, we presented the third strategy against labour-related crime, together with the parties and with the supervisory authorities, and the unisony feedback from the supervisory authorities and the parties is that efforts are helping, that results, you work better than before, more systematically than before, the supervisory toolbox has become more well-filled than before, and there are more homes and opportunities to take the unprofessional ones. To the job rates referred to: they are, as described, likely illegal. What the government proposed, and the Stortinget agreed to, was that the new contracts should provide predictability of how much to work, when to work, and where to work, precisely to ensure that employees had the predictability that many had not before.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e256	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e261	I'm glad the Council of State says that, because this is in practice replacing zero-hour contracts with tiny contracts based on the same principle. The challenge is how to deal with it. I am very well aware of what is happening in Norwegian working life, by talking to a lot of people I feel the government is talking too little about: the trustees who stand out in this every day, who do an incredibly good job of revealing such relationships and finding these contracts. But the government's answer is preliminary that there should be no supervision that can help them with that job. The government’s response is a government statement for which social dumping is not even mentioned. If the Council of State wants the option not to be what we believe the reality means that it must eventually be, that we say that we do not need this manpower industry in our working life, yes, then she must show the will to really defeat these conditions. If the Labour Inspectorate is not going to do so, if the trade union movement is not going to get new powers to do so, then who is going to do so?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e266	We need the recruitment agencies in Norwegian working life, we need renting into Norwegian working life. Without the possibility of renting, we would have major problems not only in the construction sector, as many people talk about here, but would have major challenges in the school sector, in the health and care sector – in the hospital sector there would be major problems. So you're totally dependent on the possibility of renting in, but it's going to be done on proper and proper terms and principles. It's not right that it's not supervision. Extensive supervision is now out to take unprofessional actors in Norwegian working life. You take more than ever, you impose more penalties and fines than ever, you put more out of play than ever. In addition, we now also have extensive international cooperation, precisely because we see that many of the unprofessional and criminal actors are cross-border, and that is why we also need to cooperate internationally. So it's just not right what the representative Lightbaking says. We take more than before, and still good, because we want to have them out.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e273	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e278	My question goes to the Minister of Oil and Energy. The power debate has gone high in winter, and so has the electricity price. It has hit families of children, old, lonely and many others around the country. It may not be so strange, all the time the programme statement to the First Minister for Oil and Energy of the Progress Party was that he wanted higher electricity prices. As early as the same month that he joined in 2013, the then oil and energy minister Tord Lien fixed this in an interview with Technische Ukeblad, and afterwards the government has ensured a steady increase in the electricity charge, with the exception of the current year. The network rental balancing mechanism has also been removed for those who have benefited from it. Back in 2013, Lien was engaged in high power prices in order to defend the expansion of foreign tables, and after that, even more cables have become available. The NorthConnect export cable is being approved for these days. Last year, the government and the Workers' Party made a compromise on the ownership of foreign tables in connection with the Norwegian link to the EU Energy Union. The agreement was that all foreign tables were to be owned and operated by Statnet. But now we read in the media that some of the parties to the agreement are starting to worry about whether the agreement is being properly followed up, namely the point about NorthConnect and the issue of ownership of foreign houses. Is it not true that even the government's alliance partners in energy policy have been informed of further progress in the conciliation, namely changes to the Energy Act which, at Statnet, require the State to own and operate all existing and future foreign properties, or is it such that the government has reason to push this bill out in time?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e291	NorthConnect has applied for a power cable concession between Norway and the United Kingdom. The Ministry of Oil and Energy has therefore asked the NVE to assess the application before the department then finalises the case. Concession treatment reviews all societal benefits and costs of the project. Also incoming hearings will be considered. Only projects that are socially viable shall be granted concession. In examining the third energy market package, the bulk of the population argued that the Department is preparing the application from NorthConnect before promoting a legislative change, and that in the future it should be Statnet as the owner and the operator of all foreign relations. In the third energy market package agreement, the bulk of the population agreed that any new cable should be socially viable and that experience should be gained and thorough analyses should be carried out before new connections are established. The significance of this for any new concession applications must be assessed as part of their treatment. The Government will therefore examine the application from NorthConnect in line with the existing legislation. After the concession case is settled, we will promote a legislative amendment case, in line with the Storting decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e303	I register that I am not getting a complete answer to my question. So there is an agreement between the government and parties in Stortinget that foreign tables, both existing and future, should be owned and operated by the government via Statnett. This should not be difficult to answer. I register – on the news portal FriFagbewegung – that the partners also express concern that this proposition does not come to Stortinget. I want to repeat my question with clarity – and this is not difficult, it is just to reverse the law as it was under the Minister for Oil and Energy of the Central Party: When will the government make a bill that ensures that all foreign relations are owned and operated by the State?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e312	I replied to that in my previous article. We will deal with NorthConnect's application in line with the legislation, in line with normal practice, in line with the leaders of the Stortinget. After the concession treatment has been decided, we will promote legislative change in line with the decision of the Storting regarding future ownership of foreign relations.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e319	It opens for follow-up questions – first Sigbjørn Gülsvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e324	I have to say that one is a witness to a government council in a government that shows zero commitment to the consequences for people in Norway of higher power prices. In these days many people in Norway receive sky-high electricity bills from this winter. There are families with children who don't know how to cover this bill, and there are older people who can live in large, attractive houses. This comes at the top of high-record charges in other areas, high-recorded tolls and, for that matter, people have to travel around the country and the beach and get out of work to get a passport. During the time the Progress Party has been in government, the electricity charges have increased by 35 pst. In addition, a de-balancing system has been removed. So you have a plan to make the current even more expensive in the future by building new export cables for power. Is the attitude of the Progress Party that the electricity price in Norway should continue to rise?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e331	‘My vision is that Norway will become a significant exporter of pure renewable energy. By exploiting the potential of marine mills and hydropower, Norway can become Europe’s battery,” said former State Council Haga on 5 May 2008. In the case of cable connections abroad, it is probably not the Progress Party and this Council of State that will win the competition to have built the most cables. The progress party is definitely not the cable party in this room. I understand that the electricity bill can be a major expense item for many, and we all depend on electricity every day. There are many reasons why we have the current price we have today. We have a weather-dependent system. And as the Prime Minister said in February, we are going to consider measures to meet the current price that consumers are experiencing now.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e340	Sigbjørn Gülsvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e345	When the Center Party was in government, we said no to new foreign tables. We also changed the law so that it was Statnett who would be responsible for owning and operating foreign tables, so that one among others. could use its revenues to reduce electricity costs for people in Norway. Sitting government changed the law so that private people can build foreign tables, clean export cables, which help raise electricity prices for people in Norway, and which have had a clear objective at the Minister of Energy that the foreign tables will help to raise electricity prices. Is it still the ambition of the President-in-Office of the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e350	I want to be very clear and clarify that no decision has been made to build a new cable. There is a cable for treatment in the department, the NorthConnect cable, and we have a good tradition in this country so that when people promote applications, concessions, they are treated in a good, tidy and ordinary way. So also with the application from NorthConnect, but we haven't adopted any new cables. I record that the Senterpartiet says that they are opposed to international connections, and that they have not built foreign connections. On 8 March 2013, the Central Party Council in Germany, and in a press release, the Minister for Oil and Energy, Ola Borten Moe, said: ‘We are very pleased with the agreement on the construction of the cable that was concluded last year. This will provide great opportunities for the exchange of electricity between the two countries.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e360	Espen Barth Eide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e365	First of all, I would like to stress that the Council of State restated the agreement with the vast majority of the then government parties, as well as the Workers' Party and the Greens' Environment Party, quite correctly. Experience shall be gained, socio-economic profitability ensured and Statnet shall have an absolute monopoly on cables. We have already clarified in previous debates that this will also apply if the NorthConnect cable is to be granted a concession – then this will be subject to these rules. So it's established, and unlike the Center Party, the Workers' Party has contributed to it actually being that way. What I want to ask the Council of States, since there is still uncertainty about this issue, is: wouldn't it have been reasonable now just to get these matters settled quickly, that is, to the NorthConnect case and then to present the change in the energy law that the Storting has already adopted to take place, and that in that way one could bring peace to a question that is really settled, but which is still creating political noise and unrest around?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e372	As the representative Barth Eide refers to, this has been clarified by previous decisions in Stortinget, and it has been clarified by a majority who have said how this should be. And then, of course, each one of them, based on the clarification that exists here, can create uncertainty. What I'm referring to is that there's no uncertainty about this. And in line with what the Stortinget has adopted, in line with the agreement with the Workers' Party, this legislative amendment will be promoted once the application from NorthConnect has been processed. It's on its way to the Department of the NVE and it's going to get its fair, thorough and good treatment there, and then of course you're going to execute the things that are to be implemented and to which it is shown.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e380	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e385	Now let's solve this with cables once and for all: what the center party did in government was to say yes to two cables and no to three cables. One of the people we said no to was NorthConnect, together with the Workers' Party that time. I think it is a bit interesting that the Council of State today takes some reservations. He reserves the right to look at the socio-economic aspects of power and networks, and no decision has yet been taken. I understand that he takes reservations, for this is an export cable that can export up to 12 terawatts, almost 10 pst. of our total consumption, each year to the United Kingdom. It can take the entire power surplus we have, and export it to the rest of the world. But when the Council of State now takes the reservations, the next question is: does it mean that the Council of State now says that there is a realistic possibility that the government might say no to expand the entire NorthConnect, and that one now sees that this project is not as good as it might even have thought?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e392	I just refer to the fact that the application is for evaluation by the NVE, which is the directorate and the professional authority, and the NVE will make its recommendation to the Ministry of Oil and Energy, which will then carry out the final examination of this application. And then I just have to show that no conclusion has been drawn, because before you draw conclusions, that's exactly what the Stortinget has said to be assessed, which is to be assessed by the trade unions. There's a job going on right now, and then we're going to do that investigation thoroughly and really, and then we're going to draw a conclusion.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e397	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e402	My question goes to councillor Hauglie. There has been a lot of talk in the past week about inequality and poverty since the government presented the report of inequality. There has also been some confusion about how to measure it, and the government has contributed to some fogging. I'm not going to go into that right now, but on some of the core of the debate. Differences in power and wealth are increasing in Norway. The main reason is that the richest are leaving, but we are also in a serious situation where too many people in Norway are struggling to make ends meet. During its period of power, the government has carried out a wide range of unsocial cuts that affect many of those who have least in Norwegian society, who cut off the child supplement for the disabled, thousands of people have lost the housing support, tightening up the transitional social welfare system. - The list is long. This week the Minister of Social Affairs has been out in the media and told of his concerns about the increase in the number of people receiving social assistance. Then there's a question, and that's how far she's been asking whether the government's own cut policy towards people who have little leads to more people having to live on social assistance. It's a very topical question right now, because very many people are concerned about the consequences of the tightening up that government has done in the rules on redundancy. It causes people to give up, people to be expelled from the system and left on a barside, either for social assistance or to be cared for by family. That is why my question to the Council of State if, in the light of her concern about social assistance, she is now going to reconsider her own tightening of the redundancy money.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e413	There is no doubt that any restructuring of welfare schemes is demanding, and it is important to implement the changes in a way that is best suited to the least negative for those affected by it. The representative Lightbakken probably remembers himself well when he made a big cut in the transitional mound for lonely dependants, who also had some consequences in their time, among other things. that several of the people who did not get a job came up with social assistance. So changes are very difficult. What's important to remember, if you take a step back, is that when we got into the government, the employment rate would have fallen very many years in a row. We saw that the number of young people outside had increased year by year, from 43 000 in 2008 to 70000 in 2013. We saw that two thirds of all new jobs went to work immigrants. The outside community, if you could say so, of pre-employment citizens would have been large and stable even in an upturn. There was a great need to make changes to make sure that several of those on the outside came on the inside. The AAP scheme, as referred to here, has been evaluated, and it showed great weaknesses. The evaluation showed, as Nav employees themselves also said, that for some groups it was probably too easy to get in, but perhaps worse: it was very difficult to get out. One went passive years out and years in without any follow-up, and Nav employees thought that very many of the groups that came in would get a much better offer almost anywhere else than in this scheme, for the scheme was not meant for the groups that had entered. So changes were necessary. When we presented the changes in spring 2017, there was a lot of discussion around them. The central government and management of the Workers' Party wanted to cut from four to two years. I think it was too strict. Fortunately, the country meeting in the Labour Party said no to that. The centre party agreed with us to cut down to three years, and it was unanimous in Stortinget that one had to tighten up the system by clarifying the health focus in it. It's too early now to bring a final verdict. I believe it has been important and right to make changes also in the light of the evaluations we have seen.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e422	What should have happened was that you improved the system so that it was easier for people actually to be clarified and moved on. Instead, the government has solved this by simply pulling people out of the scheme earlier by cutting it and by making it harder to extend. I've been talking to a lot of people lately who are telling incredibly tough stories about how this code now turns out. A lady I was in contact with recently, for example, who is responsible for three children alone, is now in danger of losing the house she lives in. She has worked full-time for 20 years without sick leave, but has been ill for the last five years and is unable to work more than 40 pst today. This week when she made the date for the partial AAP, and it is not easy to have to support the family at 40 p.m. wages and salaries. There'll be more poor. So these contractions cancel out. What is the Council of State's message now to the many despairing people set up on a barbed hill?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e431	We inherited a number of schemes that did not work well enough. We inherited an AAP that didn't give people sufficient help and follow-up. It shows evaluations. We inherited a qualification program that was not good enough. We inherited an introduction scheme that has also not given good enough help to those who come to the country. There has been a need to make a number of changes to our arrangements in order to meet what has been the challenge: for many people, walking becomes passive for a long time on different types of social benefits that have the common aim of being temporary, but for large groups, they are more or less permanent. The main challenge for many of the beneficiaries of the schemes is that they lack the skills and qualifications required in a Norwegian working life. That's where we have to start. We've also done a number of improvements in the AAP. We haven't just cut the social welfare race. We have imposed a mandatory obligation on Nav to follow up, statutory stoppoints; it was not before. We have made it easier to try a job without losing the AAP; it was not before. We've made it easier to keep the AAP while applying for a job, because this was lost in the past. We have made a number of improvements to the arrangement that the representative Lightbaking has never taken the initiative before. I think this is going to be good, but it's a little early now because the rules haven't worked that long.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e438	It opens for follow-up questions – first Audun Lighthouse.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e443	My question was not whether the Council of State thinks this is going to be good, but what her message to all the people who now feel that it is not going well is. No one has discussed or objected to improving the system. The problem is that the government doesn't improve the system, but tries to solve the queue problem by just pulling people out of the system. Friday's March 8th. Women are also overrepresented among those receiving redundancy benefits. When many women now have to seek social assistance, those who are married are refused because of the dependability of their spouse. What is the Council of State's message to women who are now totally dependent on being depended on by their spouse because of this system?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e450	I think maybe the representative Lightbaking isn't listening very well, because what I'm trying to say, and what's a fact, is that we're improving the systems quite significantly. We have improved follow-up procedures in the work clearance pay system. We have made it easier to both try out at work and keep the benefit longer when applying for a job, among other things, in addition to the statutory stoppoints in the AAP. We're changing the qualification programme to make it easier for young people to get in, because very often it's the qualification they need. We have announced major changes to the introduction system because we have seen through evaluations that the scheme has not been good enough. We also see a lot of good results. We see that the employment rate has started to go the right way for the first time in many years. We also see that the proportion of young people outside of work, school or activity goes down for the first time in many years. We see that there are fewer young people under 30 who receive social assistance than before. There are many positive developments, but we're not in the goal. There are still too many people who are out of work, who we need to help in, and we are doing so with the concrete measures and reforms that we have implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e456	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e461	I register – because I hear well after – that the Council of State is still defending itself, also in the round of rents instead, that I am not listening. I listen very carefully, but I hear nothing that helps the situation for those who are now being put on the bar hill. That is why SV has made proposals in Stortinget on immediate action for them, as well as to reverse the restrictions. But the government has no notice to these people. That's the problem, because that means that more people are referred to social assistance or to be cared for by their spouse. It's not like there's a cry of support from the Nav employees to these tightenings. On the contrary, there have been a number of votes against, and the trade unions of the Nav staff have strongly warned against what is happening. One of their problems is that it takes a lot of work to follow up the individual. And in that situation, this government has also equipped Nav with cheese relations, which means that employees have to run faster and have less resources to do this job. What's the government plan for Nav now? Do you have to keep cutting, so that it becomes even harder to follow up these people?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e470	Nav was given resources for, among others. following up the recipients of the AAP after we made changes, and Nav has also been given more resources in recent years. We provided a separate message that would also turn Nav in a completely different direction than before – turning it in the direction of work. Nav works better now than they've done before. The representative Lighthouse started its main question of talking about inequality and social aid expenditure. The last numbers we have for social assistance are from 2017. If there are any AAP recipients on social assistance, they are probably not caught up in the statistics. But what we see from the statistics is that the main increase in those who come to social assistance, not so very surprising, is people who go to the introduction program and get additional social benefits. In 2015 and 2016, tens of thousands of people came to this country, and they needed help and follow-up. The best thing we can do for those who receive benefits, whether it's social assistance or anything else, is to help them become qualified enough to get a job and be self-sufficient. There is nothing so disrespectful as to allow people who can and will work to pass on passive benefits over many years.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e477	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e482	But that's not what we were talking about right now, because now we talked about people who are in a situation where they've been put out of work because of illness. I know that the government is trying to turn all the inequality debates into an immigration debate, but this was not an immigration debate. It is a debate on the government's cuts in redundancy payments. Let me take it one step further, because when you think that the policies against people who have little have reached the maximum limit, the government comes with new ideas. So now it's about tightening up the little supplement that young people get because they've gotten sick before they've pulled up an income that allows you to have a disability to live on. Why will the government take the small supplement of young people on redundancy payments and disability benefits? Does not the Council of State think that it will also help more people to ask for more supplementary social assistance?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e491	This round started with inequality. Differences in Norway are also largely about immigration, and it is not a debate on immigration. This is not a yes or no to immigration, but about what causes people to fall outside important communities in this society. One reason is that people come to this country who don't have what they need to be able to handle themselves. The point of that knowledge is that we need to put in the necessary measures. It's about quick settlement. The representative of Solvency Horne as the state council is the state council that has lived the most – and far more than the Lighthouse could ever dream of when he was the state council himself. It's about rapid integration. It's about rapid qualification. It's about quick work training to get people to work. That's why that knowledge is important. It is not an immigration debate, but a discussion of what we need to do to solve the challenges. It's right that we have a question out at the hearing. We have not taken a decision on this. The reason we have it at the hearing is that there is a major difference between decisions taken in Nav and the Social Security Court, and there we have to agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e498	Lise Christoffersen – to follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e503	I want to follow up on what the representative Lysbakken asked for. He said in concrete terms, what did the Council of State report to those who have lost their redundancies due to tightening up today? We know that the contractions from 1 January immediately had very dramatic consequences for hundreds of sick people, who lost all income without notice. Many of them were not even fully investigated in the healthcare system and thus far from clearing up work or social security. If you're not finished, you can just forget to seek disability benefit. I'm going to pick up the question from the Lighthouse a little bit more and ask the Council of State: what does the Council of State really think that these people are going to live on now? I'm not even talking about the future, I'm talking about these people here and now, who have lost all their income.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e510	As I said in the introduction to one of my previous answers, there is no doubt that reorientation of welfare arrangements is demanding. Making sure that the least possible impact is negative is an important task when reorganising schemes. That's also why Nav got extra resources to follow up on the changes in this code, because we knew it would be demanding. Nav assures me that they are now deploying everything they have of resources to clarify these people more quickly, and we also see that they are now clarifying quite quickly, and that's important. What surprises me a little when you see the evaluations of the work clearance scheme – the feedback from Nav employees themselves and from researchers – is that they showed so many weaknesses in the scheme, where you even say that it was too easy to get in and hard to get out, that you went passively over the years on benefits without sufficient help and follow-up, and that those who came in should not be there. It's a knowledge we have to relate to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e517	Lise Christoffersen – to follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e522	I thank you for the answer and notice that the Council of State is talking about something completely different. The Council of State could, for example, social assistance, because that's probably one of the only things. Then I want to move the thread forward from what Lysbakken was into, namely March 8th – in two days – the International Women's Day. There are more women than men on redundancy pay, but they also differ slightly from men on the basis of diagnosis. There are several women with mental disorders; there are several women with musculoskeletal disorders. Both diagnoses take time in the healthcare system, but after the new contractions they get even worse time than before for both medical investigations and work clearance. Here, in fact, the tightening up that the government has done, has a women's discriminating side of battle. Across what has been the main message on 8 March since that day, women are shifting to social or private care. Will the Council of State now immediately put in place measures to eliminate discrimination against women from the cuts in redundancy benefits?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e530	When the government invited us to an inclusion table last year, we wanted to build it on three pillars. One of them is to improve cooperation between work and health, and in particular between work and the part of health care that is about mental health and drugs, because we see that too many people who have these diagnoses – mental disorders – would get into work and activity be directly health-promoting. There's hardly anything worse for a person who has easier mental disorders than being left to himself and himself in his own living room without any kind of follow-up. It is known that for these groups it will be health-promoting to get into activity, in whole or in part. It is no longer such that these groups should be allowed to rest in peace, as one would like to do in the old days. On the contrary, there will be greater harm to the health of these patient groups. So I think it's important to include not least this group, because we know it's health-promoting for them.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e535	Per Olaf Lundtigen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e540	Work relief money, AAP, is the low-threshold offer. It has to be safe, that's why it's called money, and it has to be redundancy, so it has to be clear whether it's working capacity or whether it ends in disability. It requires a good clarification. The centre party was to reduce from four years to three years, but it provided for better and faster treatment in the Nav system, and provided that the Nav offices were given the necessary resources and authority — not least authority — to take responsibility for it. It's not in place yet – far from it. So there are exceptions: the centre party agreed that there should be no time limit on the exceptions, because there are many who are in a medical process that one cannot say in advance what will end up in. The second point is that today's youth is exposed to a rule that it should be clarified within 22 years. Many youths do not have the courage to get the needed clarification within the age of 22. Therefore, the question is, will the Council remove the ceiling of maximum time, exceptions, and the requirement of 22 years and raise it to 25 years?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e549	It is true that the powerful Nav office – major trade unions – is important, and that was what the government provided in the big news about Nav, to which the Stortinget also addressed and joined in 2016. What we looked at when the exception was concerned was that it was becoming a general rule, and we saw that what was supposed to be a restriction – the exception is always meant to be a restriction – was becoming unlimited. That's why we wanted to set a framework for how long you could go on the exception. I have no plans to make any changes now. When we introduced the new rules on 1 January 2018, we also asked Nav in the letter of assignment to make an evaluation of the changes to see how these would turn out. And so does Nav. I mean, it's too early to make a final judgment. I think it was right to make significant changes to the scheme, because the evaluations showed that they were too bad, and those that went out were the users.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e556	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e561	My question goes to the Council of State Freiberg. More and more people are seeing the importance of protecting vulnerable nature against oil extraction and other threats. Hardly any environmental issue in this country has aroused more commitment than the fight against oil activities in Lofoten, the West Pole and Senja. Now fishermen, locals, business interests and indigenous people on the other side of the world, in Australia, are gathered to an environmental battle where Norway can become the great enemy. In a marine protection area on the south coast of the country, in Australia – Great Australian Bight – both Chevron and BP have refused to drill, while our own Equinor has secured licences for oil exploration with plans to start in the near future. This has led to strong protests. Environmental organisations Greenpeace and the Wilderness Society have long warned against oil exploration in the area, 15 local city councils are opposed, as well as large parts of the fishing industry, the farming industry and the tourism industry. Equinor’s own environmental plan shows that oil spills from a discharge into the Gulf of Australia can be disastrous. The oil can reach the whole south coast of Australia, and at worst Bondi Beach, a good piece up on the east coast. The Bay of Australia is Australia’s Lofoten – an untouched area of vulnerable nature and animal species already threatened by climate change. The Norwegian government has the power to save the Bay of Australia. The Ministry of Oil and Energy owns 67 pst. of Equinor shares, and my question is: Will the Council use the power of ownership of Equinor to instruct the company to stop oil exploration in Australia?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e572	The representative refers to the debate and commitment that is around the petroleum industry, and I can confirm that it also notes the Minister of Oil and Energy. If we look at today's headlines, we see that it also applies to Norway. It is also a reminder of the debate in progress – the importance of predictable and stable framework conditions. To the question from the representative. It is the exercise of State ownership policies according to the division of roles and responsibilities between shareholders, board and management, as demonstrated by company law and in the context of generally accepted principles of ownership and management. As a result, the State that owns Equinor does not engage in business decisions taken by the company. It's the board of directors and management's responsibility, and this also applies to Equinor's activity in Australia. So I can say that the government has expected companies where the state is on the owner's side to be in the lead in taking climate and environmental considerations where they operate. Furthermore, I assume that Equinor's activities in Australia take place in line with the national and local laws and guidelines applicable to Australia.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e581	I record that the Council of State will not use the ownership role actively in this matter. Peter Clements, rapporteur on Kangaroo Island, Australia, attended the Statoil General Assembly last year and warned against oil extraction in the area. He instead invited Statoil to expand renewable energy in Australia. At the same general meeting, Statoil changed its name to Equinor as part of the company's strategy to become a broad energy company. This is a golden opportunity to show the world that Equinor is investing in future energy sources rather than extracting oil in one of the world's most vulnerable natural areas. An accident in the Bay of Australia can be disastrous. What does the Council of State think, as the main shareholder in Equinor, will happen to Norway's international reputation of oil spills from one of their future installations in the Gulf of Australia?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e586	I'm just referring to the answer I gave. Australian authorities are demanding how Equinor and other oil companies operate on the Australian base, in line with the way we do it in Norway. Equinor also invests in renewable energy, both in Norway and abroad, just to make it clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e593	It opens for follow-up questions – first Kristoffer Robin Haug.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e598	Norway’s international reputation also depends on our delivering on our promises. Norway, including today's government, has long flagged that we are playing a leading role in developing solutions for CO2 management, which many scenarios point to as absolutely necessary to achieve the global climate goals. Recently, uncertainty has arisen about our willingness to bet, although Norway is one of the best countries in the world to develop these solutions. If not we – who? If not now – when? Can the State Council confirm that we will implement the Norwegian full-scale projects, regardless of any additional support from the EU or other external actors?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e604	As the Council of State, I can confirm that we are going to implement what Stortinget has decided on the CCS project, and of course we are going to follow up on what is in the government platform as far as CCS is concerned. And so does this government, and we are now working on the pre-project until a possible investment decision in 2021. That's the job we're doing now, which will determine if, what and what decision can be made when the project is out.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e609	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e614	My question also goes to the Council of State Freiberg. The fall in oil prices led to a decrease in activity and a sharp decline in oil investment over several years. It is therefore very gratifying that Equinor has found solutions to develop the Johan Castberg field off the coast of Finnmark. Johan Castberg is an important industrial project. With an expected investment of approx. 50 B.C.E. the project will represent a significant share of the investments on the Norwegian pedestal in the coming years. Statoil, now Equinor, invited the entire North Norway to Veidnes in Finnmark in 2013 to celebrate the construction of a landing terminal for oil from the Barents Sea on Veidnes. This created joy, expectations and demands for Statoil to follow up and thus facilitate large local ring-effects. In retrospect, we record that Statoil/Equinor created uncertainty regarding landing and landing terminal. The majority of the population asked that the investigation on different solutions for landing should be presented to the Stortinget in 2018. Reference was made to the possibility of looking at the establishment of several producing fields in the Barents Sea and oil from the Alta/Gotha and Wisting fields as part of a future solution. We record that the matter is now suspended, and my question to the Council of State is therefore: Has the Council taken any initiative towards Equinor and, where appropriate, other actors in order to bring together more people who can contribute to the financing and realisation of an infrastructure solution with a landing terminal at Veidnes, in line with the promises given and the expectations created?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e627	The representative of Seestad is quite right, Johan Castberg is a great and amazing project. It is a project that creates major ring-effects far beyond the national dimension in which this project should work, namely in Finnmark. This is a project that generates 50 billion investment. kr, to which Mr Seestad pointed out, and it is a good image that the petroleum industry is a district industry that is incredibly important for coastal settlement and employment. I understand that the representative Sekstad is concerned about ring effects – that is good. In the case of Veidnes, as was asked here, I have responded to that request decision in the proposal on the Johan Sverdrup field. What I can say in addition to that is that I perceive that the license works well from what it was informed about back to Stortinget in connection with the request decision that was taken. I would like to make it clear that no decision has been taken not to build a scaled-down terminal, which is the option on the Weidnes. That's what's going on. I have said in the same proposition that I will come back to Stortinget in an appropriate way when the job that is now done to make a decision is done. It is absolutely the intention of the Council of State to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e636	I'll record the answer. I do not doubt that the Council of State is concerned about this matter, but when we see that in 2013 there was a clear need to build a landing terminal, then to go completely away from it and not to investigate it, and then a process in this room was given where a clear majority said that one should investigate these options, one should report back – then I wish that the Council of State had had a slightly more offensive position and used that postponement a little better in order to ensure that one takes the responsibility of operating on the community's resources, and not just sitting in peace and waiting until Equinor alone has made a decision. They have been very reluctant in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e641	It is very good that the representative is impatient and points to the possibilities that this industry actually represents and provides. As I said, this is truly an important district industry. The fact that there are expectations of activity is good, because you expect ring effects, you also have to be for this activity. I absolutely understand that the representative is, and that is at least a good starting point for creating ring-effects. Then I believe that it works well, and – as I said – no decision has been made not to build the terminal. But there has to be a decision-making basis. It works well, and I will come back to Stortinget when that job is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e650	It opens for follow-up questions – first Geir Adelsten Iversen.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e655	People in Finnmark have had great faith that oil would finally be landed at Veidnes in the municipality of Nordkapp. People have had some bad experience that there has been a lot of promise until everything was clear, and then one has gone away from the promises and expectations that you have created, and there have been zero jobs in the community that have been working for the establishment to come. Will the Council of State travel to North Cape and tell us that it will not land, and that the expectations of North Cape were just airlocks, or will the Council of State continue to promise the people of North Cape municipal jobs in the context of the development of the Johan Castberg field? And if so, what jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e662	I just want to show that the Johan Castberg project has major ring-effects. It does it for Finnland, it does it for the rest of the country, and it makes it independent of what the conclusion is going to be in terms of a downgraded terminal at Veidnes. But let me just be very clear about it – and I also said it in the first place: it is not a decision to not build a terminal on Veidnes. It's working on it, and then it's the rightholders and the project that makes decisions on a commercial basis. And as I said, as a state councillor, I have said that I will come back to Stortinget when a decision has been made, and it is the Government's absolute intention to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e669	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e674	My question goes to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. I would like to start by referring to Document No. 15:999 for 2018–2019. There the Council of State, on questions from the representative of Arild Grande, shows that the number of social assistance cases has increased by more than 11,000, or almost 9 p.p., from 2013 to 2017. The number did not go down either in 2018, would be a belief – rather on the contrary, I would assume, when we see all those who are now losing their redundancy money. Of 132,000 social welfare recipients in 2017, 50 000 only had social assistance to live on. How does the Council explain this strong growth in the number of social aid cases and the high number of people with no income other than social assistance to live on?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e684	As I have seen in my previous answers in this questionnaire, there are different reasons why social assistance expenditure is increasing. The figures that have now been published are from 2017, and what we see, is that the main increase in social assistance expenditure relates to people who are on the introduction scheme, in combination with supplementary social benefits. It may not be surprising that there is an increase in this group during a period when very many refugees arrived in Norway as a result of the migration challenges. What I've also been dealing with in the previous answer is that when we look at the statistics and see how the composition of it is, it also gives an indication of what we should do to help those who are there. When the increase is among those who go on the introduction benefit, it also tells us that the introduction programme is not good enough. Too many people don't learn enough in the program to go to work and support themselves and their families. That's why we've just notified that we want to make major changes to the introduction program, to make it better, more focused and to make sure that those who come to our country are also able to get the qualifications required to get a job and support themselves. The vast majority of people who come into social assistance are there for a very short time. Most of them are there for only one month. The intersection is approx. five months. That's the last security network you have when everything else is tested. We've made a number of changes, which I've mentioned before. The introduction system shall be reviewed. The qualification programme is another programme that we are now changing, precisely to help those who are unable to stand on their own and depend on social benefits, to be able to get a job on their own.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e695	I thank you for your answer. The Council of State colleague, Minister of Finance, Siv Jensen, has also tried earlier this week to explain increasing social disparities in the main cause of immigration. There is an explanation that the government is still using — earlier on unemployment rates, now on social assistance figures. Now, fortunately, the argument was thoroughly parked from research teams. At the same time as social assistance expenditure is increasing, more people in pre-employment are experiencing disability. In parallel with this, the government has been cutting social benefits for lone dependants, disabled people, people on day-to-day pay and people on redundancy pay – to mention some of the cuts. If I do not remember completely incorrectly, Immigrants stand for approx. half of social assistance consumption, so there is a lot more left that needs to be explained by things other than the introduction system. My question is: does the Council of State see that government's own policy can be some of the explanation of the growth in the number of people dependent on social assistance?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e704	What this tells me is why the red-green government couldn't solve what was a big challenge. It is true that immigration is not the only cause of increased inequality, but it is an important cause of increased inequality. It's not an argument in the immigration debate, as I see it, but it's important to know what the composition is in the groups that are outside. What we see is that there's a huge increase among those who have immigrant backgrounds, and that means we have to tackle the problem that's targeting them. What does it take to get immigrants to work? For many it is about faster settlement – this government has contributed to it. Too many people are talking about a better introduction program – that is what this government is about to tackle. It is about improving qualification — it has been addressed by this government, both through the Nav qualification programme and through training activities in Nav and other school-side interventions. Now we see that it gives better results. The employment rate is rising, we see that unemployment among immigrants is falling, and that's good, because that means that more people can support themselves on their own income, and that should be the goal for all of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e713	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Lise Christoffersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e718	Thanks again for the answer, and again thanks for the answer to something other than what I was really asking for. Like the number of social assistance cases, the number of young people with mental disorders who never get into education and work is increasing, but ends up with disability. It should concern everyone, but also this group will be cut off the opportunities for work clearance under today's government. Now, on several occasions, the Labour Party has proposed an activity reform for these young people, which is finally followed up with a public job guarantee if they are not to get a job in the ordinary labour market. The parties to the Government have voted in favour of this proposal each time. So what I'm asking is what measures the government will take to ensure that all young people with work skills actually get into work and do not get into disability.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e725	As I said in one of my first answers, we now see that the number and proportion of young people outside of work, school and activity go down for the first time in many, many years, and we'll all be happy about that. It increased under the red-green government, but stabilised and has gone down under our government. The activity reform that the Workers' Party is constantly pointing to: it is a reform that does not include any. The last figure I saw was that it included 253 people, and it is clear that a reform involving 253 people – because the entry condition is so tight – can hardly be called a reform. It is at best a straw that the Workers' Party has clung to. It is true that there are a number of young people with mental disorders who face disadvantages — perhaps not mental disorders, but more mental challenges — among others. As a result, we live in a country where foetal medicine is found, and there are several that are born with various forms of malformations. It's positive, but it also means that more people get into the disability statistics. Youth with mild mental disorders should preferably be assisted in activity. It will be the most health-promoting measure for them.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e734	Lise Christoffersen – to follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e739	I notice that the Council of State says that the Workers' Party is proposing an activity reform that does not exist, because it will not cover more than a couple of hundred because the entry conditions are so strict. I have heard that claim several times, but our proposal is to introduce meaningful activity, among other things. in the form of education, for young people who are otherwise at risk of becoming unfit for work but who are actually able to work. If one of these activities still does not enter the ordinary labour market, the Workers' Party proposes that a job guarantee be made from the public at the other end. How the Council of State can know what kind of entry conditions will apply to that scheme, and that it will only apply to 200, when the proposal has never come further than to the paper, but has only been downgraded, goes beyond my mind, so I would like to have an explanation for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e746	The representative will have an explanation for this, because we have asked: who is this to include? It's young people born after 1990, it's young people on a grade of disability, and there were a couple of other criteria that I don't remember on the go. When one combines the age criterion with the graduated criterion and the other conditions that the Workers' Party has previously specified, it is approx. 253. It could be more or less now, I don't know, but the last time we checked on the basis of the information we got, that was the number. I agree that it is important for young people to be qualified. That is why we have also changed the qualification programme to include younger people than before. We have proposed to change the training measure to Nav, so that it is possible to obtain the relevant training requested in the Norwegian working life. We have made several changes on the school page to ensure closer, earlier and better follow-up. We now see that fewer young people fall outside, more young people complete and exist, more young people get apprenticeship, and we see that the efforts we make help. But we're not the goal at all. We still have a long way to go to help even more of the kids on the outside.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e755	Lise Christoffersen – to follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e760	Thanks for the answer. It was so elucidating, and then maybe I can use the last time I got from the president here to clear up a misunderstanding. Yes, it is true that the Workers' Party's proposal applies to young people born after 1990 in the first place, but it is not true that the reform concerns young people who are currently on the right footing. There are many young people who end up as young people who could actually have a residual working capacity if you had the opportunity, but now it's like we have an acquisition disability in Norway today, not just a medical one, so some of those who could actually have combined social security and work, don't do it today, but are in complete dissatisfaction. It is also young people who would be covered by that job guarantee for the Workers' Party. So I think the Council of State has to get someone to do those calculations one more time.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e768	The Labour Party may have changed who is to be included and not included in the reform, but we see that at least what they presented in the first instance was very few. Even more important is what gives results. We see that the efforts made by the government, both through the efforts of young people in Nav, through changes in the qualification programme that now came into force from the new year, and through the major changes we have made on the education side to capture more quickly, sooner and better, lead to good results by reducing the number and proportion of young people who are out of work, school and activity. That's good. There are fewer young people under 30 who are in social assistance, that's good. Several complete and pass the school, that's good. What we see in social assistance statistics and when we look at the young people who are outside, is that if you haven't completed school, if you only have primary school as a high school, it's twice as likely to end up in more or less permanent exclusion than if you've completed high school. Therefore, precisely the measures taken by the government are combined to produce the best results.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e775	So the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e789	There will be some changes to the questionnaire, and the President will refer to the electronic question list in this section. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative of Mona Fagerås to the Prime Minister, has been transferred to the Minister for Knowledge and Integration. Question 3, from the representative of Audun Lysbakken to the Minister for Culture and Gender Equality, has been transferred to the Minister for Employment and Social Affairs who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e803	This question, from Mona Fagerås to the Prime Minister, has been transferred to the Minister of Knowledge and Integration.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e808	‘The Metoo campaign revealed the potential consequences of sexual harassment for individuals, especially young women. Being exposed to the unpleasant behaviour of others is a serious incident for the person concerned and gives uncertainty and uncertainty to others who fear being exposed to the same. In connection with the women's day of the year, I find it timely to ask the government what has been done on its part to ensure that the methotrexate campaign is a theme of the country's schools?»
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e815	Thank you for a good question. Metoo has too fully demonstrated how a grassroots campaign and social media, along with brave women and men, can change society. Monday March 4th, we could read in the Evening Post about three brave girls who have written posts on the newspaper's Si;D-pages that metoo never came to their schoolyard. I'll praise the girls for a clear and good post. It is good that young people are aware that harassment is not right. The girls are quite right: harassment is unacceptable. We have zero tolerance on that. I expect everyone who works at school, both school managers, teachers and others, to take responsibility and give clear notice that such comments and harassment are not tolerated. It's not allowed to turn away. The Training Act is very clear that everyone in school is responsible for the right of all students to a good and safe school environment. School is one of our few common arenas in society, where we meet across background and culture. This makes the school a very important venue for building standards and values and discussing important societal issues. Metoo concerns several themes covered by the initial training today, including: limitation, sexuality and respect for the integrity and boundaries of others. This is covered by several objectives of competence in the curricula for natural sciences, KRLE and primary social sciences. In secondary school, all pupils shall have competence in metoo-related areas. In the social field, for example: skills objectives related to discrimination, crime, abuse and the working environment. The Education Directorate has produced a resource booklet, sexuality and gender, which can help support teachers in the teaching of this subject. The booklet contains tips for teaching about body and identity, sexual harassment, borders, language and respect. Renewed curricula which are soon to be consulted focus on multidisciplinary topics. They shall facilitate a comprehensive and cross-disciplinary view of the themes. One of the cross-cutting themes is Public Health and Life Exam, where sexuality and body are a topical area. The aim is to empower students to make choices that promote good mental and physical health, including: with a positive self-image and a safe identity. The curriculum determines what the contents of the school should be, but the schools and teachers must have a room for action in order to organise the contents of the school. They shall adapt and facilitate learning modalities to the needs of students.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e840	I'm glad the minister is so clear, but I'm afraid this is going to be too random. I think some schools are very good at this, others are not. If we are to ensure that all students in Norway are well educated in this area, I believe that teachers must have knowledge and competence. It's not as easy for all adults to talk about consent, sex, diversity, borders, gender roles, what's law and not law, and sexuality. It's not something that all adults do naturally. In order to ensure that teachers have good competence in this area, one must be willing to invest, and one must also be willing to use resources in this area. Will the minister use resources on this, and how does he see that this can be done?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e847	I fully agree – we have to bet, and we have to use resources. This is important. And that's exactly what we're doing. I am pleased that many schools are working well on this. I always deal with the problem when I'm out in schools and talking to students, because we know that in the schoolyard, there are students who use derogatory words to label others. Then it is important that students ask why they use that type of word, and not least that teachers — adults — are adults and present. I have now asked the Education Directorate to see how we can get into sexual harassment in the student survey or in any other way. It's important that we ask the students good questions, so that we get more knowledge. So I believe that with the mission we have given to the school through the overall section – through the value base, through the social learning to be in school, through the new curricula, with new skills goals and cross-cutting themes – the school has important tools, and then we need to ensure that teachers also have competence and security in how to provide good education and support students.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e856	The 14-year-olds Ella, Ea and Ellisiv, who are sitting at the gallery here today, told, as the minister was inside, in a reading post in the evening post, that they are being deformed by teachers and adults at school. They've tried to say from, but they can't reach. I think it's thought-provoking that so young students are exposed to sexual harassment. As a former teacher, it is difficult for me to know that such a thing has also certainly happened in my classrooms, for quite a lot of this happens hidden. I believe that now the minister must seize. This is a social problem, and we need a minister who is crystal clear. I would have liked him to come here to the girls and to the Stortinget said that now this is a priority task with which he will actually do something. And then we need to know more specifically: what is he going to do?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e869	I can say it now, and I've said it before: this is one of my most important fields of action, simply because the students are going to be safe in school. It is totally unacceptable to fellow students to label others as harassment and bullying. Students shall be safe, well-being – that is a prerequisite for learning. And we are developing learning resources – important learning resources – to support the work of teachers. We're betting on competence measures. We've hired mob reps in all the counties. That means that if the teachers ignore something they're not allowed to do, you can go to the bullying officer. Or you can report directly to the County, and then the County will follow up. For it is not the case that the bullying or harassment shall bear the heavy burden. You have to say from, and then adults have to take the matter further. So in the end, it's not just school, it's also us as parents – we as mom and dad – who have a responsibility to make sure that our children also behave properly at school.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e879	‘Sex and inequality are interrelated, and we know that equality pays off. In 2018, the Nordic Council of Ministers and the OECD presented a report showing that if women had had as high employment as men, growth in the Nordic countries could increase by 15–30%. At the same time, there is still a labour and pay gap in Norway, and EU figures show that women are at higher risk of poverty and exclusion than men. How will the Council of State focus on gender equality in economic growth and on increasing inequality in Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e886	Norway is one of the world's most equal countries. The proportion of women working part-time is decreasing. When the government took over in 2013, they worked 40 pst. by women part-time. In 2018, the figure was down to 37 pst. That means that 61,000 more women now work full-time. The share of female leaders has increased, and 56 pst. by the Heads of State or Government are women. We also see that the proportion of women in government-owned companies is increasing. At the end of March 2018, the proportion was 45 pst, compared to 36 pst. in March 2014. Some of the increase is due to the fact that we are now running statistics on several companies, but the main explanation is that the government has worked purposely to increase the proportion of female directors. Although Norway is one of the world’s most equal countries, there are still challenges related to both formal and informal structures in society, and opportunities and freedom of choice in employment are affected by gender. There are still differences between women’s and men’s choice of education and the gender-based labour market is an important reason for differences in pay between men and women. The government will encourage more people to choose non-traditional education and careers in order to contribute to a less gender-based working life, among others. by making schemes such as ‘Human in Health’ and ‘Women and Technology’ nationwide schemes. The Government will also continue the Competencelift 2020 for the women-dominated professions, including: in the nursery, nursing and care sectors. We will also give priority to actions that can contribute to women's entrepreneurship and to the diversity of welfare and welfare innovation solutions. However, these are jobs to which SV is critical, as they often operate in the private market. A major challenge for gender equality today is exclusion. Not least for migrant women and women in low-income families. Very many immigrant women are out of work and other important communities in Norwegian society. The government makes a strong effort to improve Norwegian education, qualification and education. We are reforming the introduction programme and Norwegian training to give more people the skills they and the Norwegian working life need. Women are different and men are different, and we politicians should not make these choices for them. Most people know best what fits their lives. But the government's goal is for everyone to have equal opportunities and freedom to make their own choices. The government will continue to work for equality and equal opportunities for all, regardless of gender, age, ethnicity, religion, disability, sexual orientation or gender identity.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e903	I thank you for your answer. The Minister of Finance has an important role to play in dividing full-time into part-time employment. As the communication of inequality, which was presented on Friday, confirms, part-time work is a contributing cause for differences in income. In all industries and at all levels of education, women work more often part-time than men. The notification also states that the average wage for part-time employees is lower than for full-time employees. Average wage levels are lower in occupations with a high proportion of part-time employees. This, of course, also affects the differences in income between women and men. So if we're going to reduce the differences in Norway, we need to improve equality and reduce part-time. Unfortunately, I have not been able to find that this is mentioned with measures in the disparity notice. The question is: how will the Minister of Finance and the Government continue to work to reduce part-time in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e910	As I said in my previous answer, we should be glad that the share that has gone from part-time to full-time is now increasing. That's a good trend. But we also need to look at the reason why more women work part-time. It's now that there's only a small part of the women who work part-time, who do it involuntarily. Then you also have to discuss why there are many women who work part-time on a voluntary basis. It may also be related to choices you make because of the family situation, for a shorter or longer period of time – what do I know? But as I said, it is an explicit measure by the government to facilitate that more people can go from part-time to full-time. We know that it has a significant impact on the Norwegian economy. It shows all the statistics through history. And then we're going to enjoy the fact that we also have very high professional participation among both men and women.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e915	SV has proposed to legislate for full time, and it could reverse the burden of proof. I think a lot is in it, because when you know that 70 pst. Of all part-time women still stand for it, there's a great skepticism here. Let me also look at the other end of the scale, because it's also not easy to find statistics and figures on the gender dimension in the wealth distribution in Norway. Nor do you look at it in the disparity notice. But if you do an informal census, it shows that 26 of the 100 richest in Norway are women. We know that increasing the income and wealth share of a smaller group in society will lead to increased influence and concentration of power over resources and people. So when the differences in Norway increase, and the rich subtract, it's men who subtract, and it's men who gain enhanced power. How does the Minister of Finance think this affects society? Is there any reason to be concerned? And will the Minister of Finance take forward the gender dimension in the difference debate?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e922	The government always has the gender dimension in various issues affecting the Norwegian economy and trends in Norwegian society. I have to say it's interesting if SV thinks it's okay that we have people who make a lot of money in Norway and who invest their capital in value creation in businesses and jobs. So I think to the extent that it is positive that SV now takes the order that we can get even more rich women in Norwegian society. I'm not quite sure if that's what Kaski said, but I think it's a good thing for society that we have people with capital who invest it in businesses and jobs. And what we see, which is interesting, is the emergence of entrepreneurs, business start-ups, just in women's dominated professions of women who have long experience from the public sector, who see potential for improvement, and choose to do so by starting businesses in the private sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e930	This question, from the representative of Audun Lysbakken to the Minister for Culture and Gender Equality, has been transferred to the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs as the appropriate representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e935	«Thousands of women never get a full job or pay. They never get a full pension, and many have a very unpredictable everyday life. In the healthcare sector, the proportion employed in a full-time job is critically low. Two out of three jobs are part-time in these services. A few weeks ago, the Socialist Left promoted three concrete proposals to strengthen full time in Norwegian working life. All of these were voted down by the government. What is the government's means of achieving a more equal working life with the right to complete jobs?'
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e942	First of all, I would like to thank the representative for an important and unfortunately still relevant question, you might say. The labour force is the main resource of society. The government wants to include as much as possible in working life, both women and men. When we took over, we worked 40 pst. by women part-time. In 2018, the figure was 37 pst. The proportion of full time has increased from 60 pst. to 63 pst. This is equivalent to 61 000 more women on a full-time basis, and more and more jobs are long part-time, i.e. between 20 and 36 hours per week. In 2015, we changed working time regulations to increase access to local solutions. This may increase the opportunities for those who want to work longer shifts to obtain the corresponding longer period. This can in turn contribute to higher job rates. In order to strengthen the rights of those who work ‘involuntary part-time’, we have rules that give part-time employees the right to increase their position rather than hire new ones. A change in the law that came into force from the turn of the year clarifies that part-time employees may also have the right to take advantage of only part of a post. In 2014, several legislative measures were put in place to reduce involuntary part-time work. The employer shall discuss the use of part-time positions with the trustees at least once a year. This obligation is particularly important in sectors where the level of organisation is low and the size of part-time, for example: the hotel, restaurant and retail industries. Part-time employees are entitled to the statutory scope of employment corresponding to the actual working time. The background to the provision is that many part-time employees work more regularly and over time than agreed without being reflected in the employment contract. Much is also happening in the workplace. Several municipalities have decided that the positions to be published should initially be 100 pst. The KS, the Trade Union, Delta and Norsk Nursing Association have agreed to continue their efforts to reduce part-time work. Similar work has been started between Specter and Norsk Nursing Association. For several years, regional health establishments have been required to employ hospitals as much as possible throughout permanent jobs. The use of part-time in hospitals has also decreased by more than 20 pst. since 2011, and the decline continues. It is important to continue working on the many good processes undertaken to strengthen full-time cultures, but it is also important that even more women themselves should wish and would go from part-time to full-time. At the same time, it is also important to stress that everyone cannot or does not want to work full-time. For many who would otherwise have fallen out of work, part-time work may be essential for them to remain in work. In some cases it is also the case that businesses do not have enough work to employ people in a full-time position.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e963	I thank you for your answer. Clearly, the effort to create a full-time culture in the Norwegian labour market is about several things. The municipality selection for the autumn is important. When Inga Mandal of SV was elected rapporteur in Gamvik in Finnmark in 2011, Gamvik became the country's first full-time municipality. They managed to get rid of involuntary or forced part-time through good cooperation between the municipality and the trade unions. So it's important who is selected for the harvest. But this is also a major problem in the private sector, especially in many service industries, which the Council of State has to deal with. Then the question is what can we do nationally to strengthen the law and push our working life towards full-time culture. The size has declined the proposal to require employers to expect part-time jobs. Will the government review it?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e974	As I said in my first answer, the government has already implemented several changes to strengthen the rights of part-time employees, both through the right of priority and through the fact that the contract of employment should reflect on a real real job. No one can be hired on low job breaks and impose more work on them and thus undermine this. Then several changes have been made to make it possible, and easier, for employees with the law to actually require a major job break. Turnus is obviously important. It is basically a relationship between the parties, but we see that in several municipalities, organisations and businesses, other forms of rotation are used. Then it is also easier to put in place more complete jobs than you've been able to get in the past. It is also a responsibility of the parties. But as I said in my main answer, many of the changes we've made, I have great faith in. We also see that more and more women work better jobs, and that is good. And then maybe there's a little bit of an attitude issue out there about working full time.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e983	This is both a question of sex and a question of class and of how the power and status of workers are in our working life. It is important to have political leaders who say clearly that a desire for a different culture in working life, where getting a full and complete position should be the more sunny starting point for those who want it. Today, many people don't know if the bills can be paid, or what weekends they can be with their kids, before the lists of who gets to work when are hung up in the breakroom. We've talked a little bit about the municipalities, and although this is a big theme every time it's a municipal election fight, there's still a lot of places that happen too little. Is it relevant for the government to develop a national strategy such as: could both oblige municipalities to have a full-time culture strategy and set up financial grants in addition to what we have today, to municipalities that want to invest in it?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e990	A national strategy for municipalities is probably a little out of the scope of this Council of State. I believe that municipalities must also have a high degree of freedom to organise their services in the best possible way. But to a large extent, this is also a responsibility for the parties – how you want to put up the working time and how you want to put up the tour – and you see that where you put up the tour differently, that is, you have longer, continuous increases, you also increase the opportunities to strengthen the full-time position. It will probably also be a prerequisite for recruitment in the future, because you can see that the younger women want to work healthier jobs than the well-adult women might want to do. That means recruiting professionals in the future will also have to facilitate this. The representative says this is a matter of sex and class. Yes, it's a matter of sex. I'm not necessarily as sure as if there's a question about class. It can also be seen that the high-wage groups in the public sector choose to work part-time, and – unfortunately, I would say – there are too many who also make it voluntary, certainly for different and legitimate reasons. But we actually all need to work, including all women.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1000	The question is: ‘Elevation [...] is of particular importance for boys and students in secondary school’, writes Trude Havik in an article for the Educational Environment Centre on 13 February this year. The Stoltenberg Committee points to the value of school relations, and the Student Organisation emphasises that the influence of students over their own everyday school life is a prerequisite for school democracy. How will the Council of State provide for increased student exposure, student participation and relationship building in school?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1009	All children and young people have the right to a safe and good learning environment. Good relations between students and between teachers and students are central to the establishment of this. The government has therefore launched several different competence development measures to support both schools and kindergartens in building a safe and good playing and learning environment. How teachers can work to build good relationships in a group is a central theme of these skills development actions. In the overall part of the curriculum, as we set out in 2017, the school is required to support and contribute to the social learning of its students. The school shall develop inclusive communities and promote health, well-being and learning for all. In general, we also clarify that good class management is based on insight into students' needs, good relationships and professional judgment. The government is also committed to facilitating and demanding the participation and involvement of students in school life. In general, it is a subchapter of its own in Part 1 The value base of training, which promotes the principles of democracy and participation. Here, there is a clear provision for student vision and student participation. Now we have a comprehensive process of renewing the subjects. The overall part is both the basis for the development of the new curricula for subjects and will work with them from the autumn of 2020 onwards. The new subjects will continue to facilitate student participation both in the planning and in the implementation of the training. Several of the new curricula will have a practical and exploratory rotation, including: to be motivating and engaging with the students. In addition, each curriculum shall contain a whole new assessment text, where the assessment of self-learning by the students will be a key element. I can also add that in the process of developing the new curricula, we have set up a reference group consisting of the central parties in the school. The student organisation is part of the reference group and is a good and constructive participant in this work. Both the Nordahl Group and the Stoltenberg Committee have been concerned that children should have good relations and experience inclusion, mastering and learning. I have previously announced that we will present a big message on early efforts in the autumn of 2019. We will therefore come back to this in the communication, especially if there is a need for adaptation or specific organisation of training.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1026	Governments and I look at many of the same elements for action. It is important that in these days we can even greet the Student and the Student Organization, who cultivate the student democracy in practice. I will further make some further points that Trude Havik writes about, namely: ‘Exposure concerns, among other things, students’ interest, enthusiasm, participation and involvement in school and school work. The teacher may influence student exposure.’ The student survey shows that most Norwegian schools are characterised by good relations between teachers and pupils. Then the Center Party thinks it's scary with a new government platform, which will bind up more of the time of the teachers and the resources of the municipalities. Will measures in the Granavolden Declaration provide teachers and schools with more time and capacity to care for student exposure, student participation and relationship building, or will the government introduce more standards, competence requirements and test requirements?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1038	I believe that both the Granavolden Declaration and the new curricula will help teachers to find more room for learning, that there will be more time for deeper learning. We don't want to control the teachers' use of methods. Teachers shall have the freedom of method, and there shall be room for teachers to be teachers. Otherwise, I'm now coming straight from the Elevation. I had the pleasure of greeting them today. Today they celebrate their three anniversary celebrations. It's been 100 years since brave girls established the first student council, at the Nissen. It's been 60 years since the NGS was established, and 20 years since the first class. We see that the student democracy is at its best. We have reason to be proud of the student democracy in Norway. It works well in very, very many schools, and it works well in cooperation between government councils and the Student Organisation. But this does not come of itself; we must continue to cultivate student democracy and provide both commitment and participation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1045	It's just this: the student democracy works well in many places, but then the question is how we manage to lift those schools where it doesn't work well. The student organisation points out that self-working influence is a prerequisite for conscious, motivated and active students. I also notice that the overall part of the curriculum clearly points to student participation. Teaching plans and other plans are good and good, but theory and practice must be linked. Practical policies must be linked to the level of ambition. The forthcoming call for proposals for early and inclusive communities will take a huge amount of care, including: follow-up of the Stoltenberg Committee. How will student participation and relationships be covered here? And how will the Student Organisation be involved in this work?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1052	It's probably a little early to say what comes in a big message that's to be submitted to the autumn. We're still in that phase that I'm traveling around School-Norway, visiting kindergartens and schools and talking to teachers, school leaders and students, just to get an idea of how to create an even better school in the future. I agree that plans are all right. It is now also laid down in the legislation, so that there are clear rules on how the school should help students to participate in education and planning. These are topics that we also work well with in the new curricula. This must be linked – from legislation and plans to the new curricula and also to the development of new learning resources, which will enable us to facilitate this for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1062	«Eigen income is important for women's self-determination. More women with a migrant background need better job opportunities. They can have severe traumas, lack of initial training and live with social control. The introduction system is not differentiated enough for all. The government has also excluded women in need of social assistance from Job opportunity; a measure for those who are far from working life. The Socialist Left Party will give these women the right to offers like Job. Why doesn't the government want it?'
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1069	One of the main challenges in integration policy is that too many immigrants, and especially refugees and women, are out of work. The government has put forward an integration strategy, the main objective of which is to get more immigrants to work, so that they can support themselves and their own. Strengthening the financial autonomy of new arrivals is a primary objective of the Introduction Act, such as: regulates the right and obligation of the introductory programme. The introduction programme is an individualised programme and may consist of different measures, such as: training in Norwegian, social, work practices and health promotion activities. An individual plan is created based on a survey of individual needs. From 1 September 2018, the Government has made it clear that municipalities can extend the programme to individuals when it strengthens the possibility of transition to work or regular education. We know that there are challenges with differentiation of the introduction program, and that the result varies between municipalities and between the sexes. The government is therefore working on a comprehensive review of the Introduction Act. The objective is to ensure higher achievement in transition to normal work and education. Part A is a grant scheme aimed at increasing the employment of domestic immigrant women, who are far from the labour market and who need basic qualification. Women participating in the Part A Job Show pass through a qualification programme following the model of the introduction programme and receive close follow-up. Part A was strengthened by over 15 million. kr in 2019. In 2017, 70 p.m. went. by the participants in Part A of Jobjeansen over to work or training following the completion of the programme. The scheme has met the performance requirements of the Ministry since 2012. Until 2017, the recipients of social assistance in the target group were Jobsjansen. The target group was amended in 2017 to increase employment for persons not covered by other schemes. Immigrants should mainly be covered by the ordinary arrangements we have in Norway. Social assistance recipients are covered by labour and welfare management measures and should be followed up there.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1088	The Council of State now refers to the good results for Jobjesen, and they are eye-catchingly good. That's why it's so strange that the women who are perhaps the most struggling, have now been excluded from it – and as I see it now – in order to make the statistics look a little bit better. There can be no good instrument for better integration and more women at work. It should also be the way to use the Job View more for this group, precisely because it is so individualized and so directed at the specific problems of this group that you could use it more. I have also looked at what the government has recommended, namely the qualification programme to replace this. It has far, far lower results than what Jobjessen has. So I miss a good explanation from the government as to why immigrant women, who stand a long way from work, are not going to get this Job shine.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1095	I am pleased that we agree that these are good results. And I'm very happy that the effort we have on Jobjeansen also gives results for individuals, because that's what it's all about, that more women come out to work and can take care of themselves. I've also had the pleasure of meeting many of them and seeing the pride that it gives to having the opportunity to earn their own money. It is, as I said, so that those who receive social assistance have access to ordinary programs through Nav. We believe that, like others, they should take advantage of those measures. It has nothing to do with decorating any results. Rather, on the contrary, it has to do with targeting Jobjessen against those who are not covered by other measures, and then those who have social assistance must take advantage of the measures that are within the Nav portfolio.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1102	The Council of State now determines that he will not use the measures that work to get women to work. What we know is that women on average are poorer than men, and this group especially. So this group is referred to the social office, Nav, municipality, which has not received money from the government to implement more measures. On the contrary, the government's systematic cut of other benefits has now caused us to see an explosion in the number that needs help in the social office. They probably don't have any special budgets to set up several actions for this group. Then I have to ask the Council of State: is he aware that the pressure on the social offices has increased enormously with the cuts made by the government? Is he aware that the municipal services have not received any additional grants to help more people out in activities that could lead to work?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1109	With regard to the funding of the introduction programme and the follow-up of refugees and immigrants, there are good arrangements for municipalities. We believe that the money can be used even more for qualification measures. We have also notified that if you go to social assistance and are outside the labour market because you have too poor Norwegian skills, it will be an obligation for the municipality to make sure you learn Norwegian better. It is not that, as a refugee, one should stand outside the labour market and go to social assistance if the reason is that one does not speak Norwegian well. Then it will be the responsibility of the municipality to ensure that you get back to Norwegian courses and get good Norwegian skills, so that the transition to work can be easier. We are also now increasingly using social entrepreneurs, Moving Mamas and Sisters in Business – good examples of social entrepreneurs who create a safe bridge for refugee women – from outside the workplace to getting into a safe job. Social entrepreneurs can play an important role there.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1123	‘The working day of the women’s dominated health and care sector is characterised by very low staffing and very tight tournaments. This is part of the reason why as many jobs are published as part-time jobs in these professions. Therefore, increased staffing in health and care is an important part of the solution to the part-time traps. What is the government doing to organise health and care activities for more full and permanent jobs, including increased staffing?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1130	The government is committed to developing a full-time culture in health and care services and to facilitating the participation of more people who work part-time and who want to work full-time. Having a job with a job break that allows for self-sufficiency and family support increases predictability both for the employee and for those receiving health and care services. 70 pst. by staff in the health and care sector are women. A full-time culture in this sector is therefore also an important issue of equality. The government amended the Labour Environment Act in 2015 by opening up the possibility that it would make it easier for the parties locally to contract guards up to 12.5 hours. This way you can, for example: arrange long shifts on weekends and reduce the need for weekend breaks. It is important that healthcare services facilitate a full-time culture and the possibility of using alternative rotational schemes. The Government has also amended the Working Environment Act by allowing part-time employees to have the right to take advantage of a part-time job, including in order to reduce involuntary part-time work. I have followed up the government's objectives in this area and made demands in the business meetings since May 2014. Health regions are systematically working on staff planning and measures to reduce the use of part-time and temporary workers, which have produced good results. The proportion of permanent staff and the average employment rate of permanent staff have increased in all health regions since 2013 and common policies have been developed in health enterprises. All positions in health establishments are initially to be published as full-time jobs. Furthermore, permanent employees may have the right or need to reduce their working hours. However, such arrangements must be evaluated as necessary and, where possible, limited in time. Furthermore, all part-time workers who so request shall be given an assessment of the possibilities for a full-time job based on the needs of the enterprise and within the framework of current working time arrangements, including evening and weekend extra shifts. The promotion of a full-time culture is the main element in increasing the level of permanent employment in health enterprises. I am concerned that we have to succeed in this work – from an employee’s perspective, from the use of public resources and not least because a full-time culture has a clear link with quality and patient safety in the service.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1143	Today, many municipalities are struggling with the poor economy, thus not being able to secure more full-time jobs in the health and care sector. This is a major problem in many municipalities. My question is then whether the government has any plans to improve the financial situation of the municipalities, which means that they have far more opportunities to offer full-time jobs in the health and care sector than today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1148	The government has shown every year that we are strengthening the municipality's economy, and it has also produced results. So I mean, unlike the Haltbrecken, that the municipalities can't use the economy as a reason not to offer people whole jobs. On the contrary, I think it's bad economy to be in a situation where one depends on many part-time employees. Firstly, it is demanding to administer; secondly, it contributes to poorer quality. We know that if you don't have a full-time culture and depend on many and complex tours where patients have to deal with many different employees, and not least if you have increased use of temporary workers, it has a negative impact on quality and on the economy of municipalities. So on the contrary, we see many good examples of municipalities that get good finances through just investing in full-time culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1153	I record that the Council of State believes that the municipalities have a good economy, unlike the municipalities themselves say several places. I don't quite feel that I got the answer to the last question, but I can try to repeat it: will the Council of State and the Government ensure that, both in the revised national budget and in the coming state budget for 2020, increased appropriations will be made available to the municipalities that will enable them to secure more full-time jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1158	I just have to stress that I am not a municipal minister, whom the representative is fully aware of. But I have no problem saying that the municipal regulations of this government are very good – they have contributed to a strengthened municipal economy. I would like to remind the representative that we have record few municipalities on the ROBEK list. The economy of municipalities is now healthier than for example. when the Centerpartiet ruled the municipal economy. I would say it's very unfortunate if the Center Party helps to create the impression that municipalities or hospitals can use the economy as a reason to offer their employees part-time jobs, thus undermining the work of creating a full-time culture in the public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1163	The representative is a member of SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1168	Oh, I'm sorry, President!
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1176	Also from SV: ‘The government has now issued proposals to tighten up the abortion law at the hearing. The woman herself shall no longer be allowed to take the decision on foetal reduction. That makes the government the first in 40 years of age to restrict women's self-determined right to abortion. Why does the Council of State consider that a name is better suited to make this choice than the woman herself, and what, if any, does the justification for inclusion of foetal reduction differ from justifying self-determination for other types of abortion?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1185	Foetal reduction of healthy foetuses has been – and is – an ethically difficult matter. We have sent to the hearing a proposal which involves the examination of all applications for foetal reduction. The professional community in Trondheim has called for all applications for foetal reduction to be considered. Most foetal reductions are carried out after 12 weeks because, in practice, it is difficult to do so earlier. Under the law of abortion, applications for abortion shall be considered as such if the abortion is carried out after the end of the 12th week of pregnancy. It is therefore natural to require the inclusion of all foetal reduction applications. Today’s practice is based on an exception in the abortion regulation that opens up for a shorter period of time for the intervention to be delayed without the right to self-determination being lost. However, doctors believe that it is unfortunate that we systematically practice the right to self-determined foetal reduction based on an exception. There should be greater consistency between legislation and medical practice. What we're proposing is not a historical setback. It was unclear whether the abortion law opened for self-determined foetal reduction before the Ministry of Justice came up with its interpretation of the law in 2016. We are now proposing a slight tightening in a practice that has been going on for two years. This applies to very few women, and we ensure that these women are given the opportunity to apply for foetal reduction in an abortion subject, as for all other abortions carried out after 12 weeks. The government believes that foetal reduction cannot be equated with other abortions ethically. The ethical assessments of foetal reduction differ from those of abortion. The right to self-determination before the end of the 12th week of pregnancy is justified by the fact that the woman herself is closest to deciding whether to complete a pregnancy or not. Before the end of the 12th week of pregnancy, consideration for the legal protection of the foetus must cease if the woman does not want to have a child. In case of foetal reduction, the situation is different. The question is not whether the woman herself should decide whether she wants to complete a pregnancy and have children, but whether she should have the right to choose how many children she wants to carry out. The proposal to require consideration follows the recommendations of the National Treatment Service for Advanced Invasive Foetal Medicine in Trondheim. All foetal reductions in Norway are carried out by this environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1204	It is worth dwelling on this with the right of self-determination because for 40 years now it has been a pillar both in Norwegian abortion legislation and in Norwegian gender equality policy in general – the woman’s right to control her own body. It's pretty obvious because a pregnancy is insoluble and literally related to the female body, no matter what you might think. Therefore, even the woman herself must make the decision before 12 weeks, most people here believe in Norway. The council says that this is an ethically difficult matter, and he says that there is an ethical assessment other than self-determination by abortion in general. But why is it that it is an ethically difficult matter a reason to take something into consideration and not let the woman herself have the confidence to make that choice also in terms of foetal reduction?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1211	It is absolutely right that self-determination is an important part of the abortion law, and it is firm. The government does not propose any change in the right to self-determined abortion until week 12. However, the representative is also aware that the abortion law is based on another equivalent principle, namely that the legal protection of the foetus increases with the length of pregnancy. This is also the reason why abortions carried out after 12 weeks are not self-determined in Norway but are treated by mention. Foetal reductions are mainly carried out after 12 weeks, and this also means that a non-pregnant reduction of foetal size with abortions occurs after 12 weeks. The second is that we also say in this law that the woman can try her case in the name of before 12 weeks, to get an answer to the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1220	It is the decision that is important here that the decision be taken before 12 weeks. The Council of State says that there is another ethical question in terms of foetal reduction, that is, how many children you have to carry out, than if you have to carry out a child at all, that is, another, common - to use that word - form of abortion. I wonder if the Council of State can say anything more about why there is actually another ethical assessment of how many children you are going to present, and why it should justify that the woman herself cannot make the decision – as it is now, not the execution – before 12 weeks. Does the Council of State think that there is something particularly professional or something particularly moral that distinguishes it from another type of self-determined abortion?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1227	The representative's input to this question is fundamentally wrong. The abortion law is not based on an idea that it's the decision time that decides whether it's self-determined or not, it's the length of pregnancy. The length of pregnancy has something to say for the fetus' own right to protection. What the law of abortion is based on is not that a fetus before 12 weeks has no legal protection, but one says that it is lower, thus placing a greater emphasis on the woman's own assessment. After 12 weeks, the legal protection of the foetus is enhanced by the fact that the decision is no longer a decision of the woman but a decision of a name. Thus, the decision-making time is not the starting point for the 12 week separation, it is the intrinsic value of the foetus, and most foetal reductions are made after 12 weeks.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1235	‘Many women and organisations are warning about maternity care. The distance between birthing women and hospitals is increasing, maternity wards are being laid down, hospital lay time after birth is going down, there are so few midwives in many places that one-to-one during birth is impossible, and there are not enough midwives in the municipalities either. What is the Council of State's response to those women who get a long distance from the nearest hospital, who don't receive one-to-one treatment, and who warn about this?'
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1242	Firstly, if we ask the users of the food supply in Norway, we have a good offer. Women are consistently more satisfied with birth and maternity care in 2017 than in 2011. Nor is it a health policy objective to reduce the laxity of pregnant women. In 2017, newly-baked mothers had an average bedtime after birth of 2.8 days. It has been stable for the past five years. The duration of hospitalisation shall be adapted to the needs of the woman and the newborn child, in line with the national guideline. I have been very clear to the hospitals that no newborn children, mothers and fathers will be forced home shortly after birth. The needs of the child and the safety of the parents shall be determined. The representative indicates that there are so few midwives in many hospitals that the goal of one-to-one during birth is impossible. I would like to stress that health care companies are responsible for drawing up crew plans that ensure a proper offer. The fact that all birthers are to have a midwife with them as early as possible in an active phase of birth and until birth is over is otherwise a recommendation, there is no patient right. This is a goal, but great variations in birth rates in seasons and from day to day it makes some places demanding to reach the goal. The government agrees that there is a need for more midwives in the municipalities, and that is also why we are building up the midwife service. In 2018 we reintroduced the legal requirement for midwifery capacity in the municipalities, which was removed by the red-green government. Over the years, we have also strengthened school health services and health centres, including midwifery skills. From 2013 to 2017, the number of midwifery works increased by 46,2 pst. At the same time, the birth rates went down. This means that during the same period we have had an increase in midwifery in the municipalities per 10,000 born at 52 pst. From 2010 to 2017, the increase in midwifery per 10,000 was born on 71 pst. The government aims to further strengthen midwifery capacity, but there is also a significant strengthening in the years that we have been responsible for health care. The most important means of ensuring safety for the unborn are good care of the midwives locally, follow-up service for those with a long route and clear selection criteria for the place of birth.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1253	I am glad that the Council of State has repeatedly stated that he adheres to the guidelines we have for maternity care, but I think the problem lies elsewhere. One example is that with the proposal for a hospital in Mo in Rana and the closure of hospitals in Sandness Lake, the distance is similar to Oslo-Arendal between hospitals. Or if we look at More, where the company has been working for several years to provide follow-up service for the many long-hauled midwives, without success, and the travel distance will increase significantly on Møre with the aggregation of the food departments in Kristiansund and Molde. Can the Council of State see that the distance is deeply problematic in many places, and that there is a greater distance from government policy? What is his solution to that?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1260	No, there will be no greater distances with this government's policy; there have been significantly greater distances with previous government policies, when a number of food supplies were put down in Norway. It is a development that has almost stopped, and we have stressed in the new national health and health plan that we should have decentralised hospital services in Norway, including maternity wards and feeding rooms, and that food provision should be ensured even outside the large women’s clinics. That's the situation. We have had some maternity wards that have been closed, among others. on the initiative of those who worked there, because they considered that there was not a good enough basis for maintaining the offer with regard to the number of births and the training required. We always have to be open to that kind of change. Of course, the most important thing is the quality, but in those cases where there is a longer route, ensuring good follow-up service is an important part, and not least the bet on midwives in the municipalities is an important part of the answer to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1267	I am recording that the Council of State is busy blaming the previous government and does not have any measures or solutions for what I outlined earlier. But let's move on to the Women's Clinic at Haukeland in Bergen, where the situation is so bad that the Earthmothers' Association and the Nurses' Association have sent notices to the Labour Inspectorate and County Board because the crew is too low. This has been announced by the employees in a very long time, including when they voted down the budget because of the conditions at the Women's Clinic. Haukeland also has the worst impact on the use of this drug in pregnant women. So I want to ask the Council of State, what will he do with the serious warnings about understaffing?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1274	Firstly, I disagree with the entrance that the representative had to describe that I was busy blaming the previous government, but had no action on my own. On the contrary, I described in my answers the measures we have taken, which also have an effect – a significant, strong effort that has produced results, with a better soil killering for natives in Norway and also a clear follow-up of health regions to the very goal of having midwife present during active birth, which the representative is also aware of. The situation at the Women's Clinic in Bergen is well-known, and I expect, of course, that the management of Health Bergen will take the warnings very seriously and work with the trustees and professionals in order to rectify the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1284	‘In the context of the Metoo campaign, a number of doctors reported sexual harassment under the counter-proprietary #outtality obligation, and later through a survey conducted by the Association of Young Doctors. It is the youngest doctors and those in temporary jobs who are most often affected by the reported harassment. What concrete action has the Council of State taken to ensure that regional health businesses work to combat sexual harassment in the workplace?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1291	In recent years, there have been several cases in several healthcare companies concerning harassment, including sexual harassment. Some of these have led to cancellations. Health regions stress that there are few cases, but that it has been very important to follow them up in a safe and good way. Sexual harassment is unacceptable and illegal. The topic of metoo has created an important time gap, and I have made sure that the health sector has addressed this challenge. After pressure from me, sexual harassment has now been included as part of the employee study for Improvement, which the hospitals carry out every year. The results of the study concern me: Nearly 1,500 of the 99 000 who participated in the study replied that they did not agree with the claim ‘No one is being subjected to sexual harassment here’. This is a clear indication of how the work culture is experienced in hospitals. I have been aware that health business managers have an important job to do in improving the message culture and preventing this kind of unacceptable behaviour. The message has arrived, and the leaders have taken the investigation seriously. The 2018 ForImprovement Survey has now been followed up by improvement measures in hospitals, and action and action plans have been drawn up. This year's survey is ongoing, and I want to keep an eye on the results. In the joint enterprise meeting in January, I demanded that managers at all levels initiate improvement measures when necessary. In 2018, I had a dialogue meeting with the group protection representatives and the group trustees. There we had as a theme just how we were going to work on the follow-up of the results, especially with the emphasis on following up and preventing various forms of harassment, including sexual harassment. The hospital directors and directors in the health regions were also informed when I met them in June 2018. I was clear that sexual harassment is not compatible with being employed in a hospital. I also said that the directors are obliged to follow up the results of the study – through the management and quality improvement regulation, which entered into force in 2017. There is now a legal requirement for managers to follow up on this kind of knowledge. Cases of sexual harassment are reported to health companies, and of course I should like to be all in addition. All kinds of harassment are unacceptable, and we need to build a culture to report and prevent. It is a management responsibility to address this type of inappropriate behaviour and to ensure that the problem remains visible in the quality improvement work.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1306	In connection with the appeal #utetaustaushets obligatories, the doctors submitted seven requirements to the health establishments: zero tolerance for sexual harassment; that the management of all departments of all health institutions is to initiate measures: compulsory courses on the theme for all employees training on sexual harassment at all medical faculties; better alert procedures security of alerts and adequate consequences; job protection; Specialisation doctors should be given permanent posts from the start of the specialisation cycle. Extensive use of temporary employment makes warning of critical circumstances difficult. I'm thinking in particular about the last point of temporaryity and what kind of risk it exposes the younger doctors to. How has the Council of State followed up that point?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1335	Timeliness was one of the issues that I addressed very early when I became Minister of Health, and I have asked health regions to work with the trustees to get solutions that involve better job protection during specialisation. Fortunately, an agreement has also been reached between Specter and the Medical Association, which will contribute to this. I agree with the starting point of the representative. Having doctors in temporary posts poses a challenge both in terms of safety and in terms of alerting people to conditions at work, for example: harassment and related to the safety to alert patients to circumstances that are dangerous to patient safety. I also believe that there is a connection between these – a doctor who is harassed by a colleague, of course, is also a doctor who may have less attention to the patient’s needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1342	It sounds like we're sharing some of the same opinions related to this topic. In politics, we have said that metoo must be a crossroads. What do the State Councils think about methotrexate and a crossroads in health businesses? Can we do that?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1347	I hope so, and I fully agree that it should be a crossroads. My demand to carry out an overall national work environment study, which was a link between the work environment, patient safety and patient safety culture, coincided randomly with methotrexate. Therefore, it was important for me to be clear that I had expectations that that study would also include harassment, including sexual harassment. Thus, we now have a completely different basis for systematically working on this, because we now have feedback not only at the hospital level, but from each department. Of course, the results of each department are not public, because it is far too person-sensitive, but each manager and the manager's superior have access to this information, and new regulations on quality and management impose a legal requirement that this is information to be addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1356	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘In the new long-term economic plan for Oslo University Hospital, three new assumptions underpin financing their hospital development plans: 1) that the level of investment can be increased by 9.4 billion. NOK, 2) that the proceeds from the sale of Ullevål hospitals and other plots shall be SEK 8,1 billion. (kr), 3) that the annual gains from improving the efficiency of operations up to 2037 will reach 1.4 billion. kr and from 2037 shall be of SEK 2,0 billion. kr. Does the Council of States believe that these assumptions are realistic and can be met?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1365	Health South-East is now working to realize the target picture set for the development of Oslo University Hospital, i.e. a comprehensive and complete regional hospital including local hospital functions in Gaustad, a large emergency hospital in Aker and a specialised cancer hospital in the Radium Hospital, as well as the further development of our two ideal hospitals in Oslo. In addition, a new regional security department shall be established. The investment plans are comprehensive and Health South-East is responsible for the implementation of the plans within a professional and economic framework. This requires careful evaluation and analysis and requires continuous consideration of changes in plans and assumptions. The updated long-term financial plan for Oslo University Hospital for the period 2019-2062, to which the representative Bøhler refers, has added an increase in investment volume related to the plans at Aker Gaustad by 9.4 billion. kr. The increased investment volume is due to three factors: Health South-East has made hospitals in Aker and Gaustad somewhat more liberal, as a result of learning from other hospital projects. Furthermore, today’s plans suggest that there is a need for land purchase on Aker. In addition, increased investment volume also increases building loan interest rates. Land sales plans have been a prerequisite since the target image was established. As I have been informed, the expected sales revenue from, among other things, Ullevål, Statens Zentrum for Epilepsy, Dikemark, etc. have been reduced by the update of the latest long-term economic plan. Many of today's constructions at Oslo University Hospital are old and inappropriate for hospital operations. Upgrades are required. A zero option also leads to high investment needs and implies that regional functions are maintained both in Ullevål and the Rikshospitalet, and that Aker continues primarily as a health arena in cooperation with the Municipality of Oslo. The economic analyses carried out in the past show that this option does not have an economic carrying capacity. New building and pooling of functions facilitates increased quality in patient treatment and more efficient operation. Competence and equipment must be used in the best possible way to take advantage of the benefits of moving into the new buildings. Health South-East and the University of Oslo are planning for this now, and today's plans and assumptions will certainly also be changed. The important thing for me is that Health South-East thinks long-term and broad in order to meet the plans for a better hospital offer for the inhabitants of Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1382	I thank you for the answer from the Council of State. Yesterday, there was an extensive consultation here at Stortinget about these health plans we are now also discussing in the Questionnaire, and one of the most important points in the consultation was criticism of the efficiency gains that are provided as a prerequisite for affording to finance the investments. It was shown that Oslo University Hospital – after it was established, i.e. that among other things. Ullevål and the Rikshospital were merged – nothing has been done in the vicinity of what is provided by efficiency gains in these long-term plans, i.e. 8.1 pst. per year until the new buildings stand, and then up to 1.4 billion. kr and 2 br. kr. We have experience from, for example: The hospital Østfold, with the addition of very efficiency gains to sell the project, and then it is not possible to implement it. Is the Council of State satisfied that these very strong efficiency gains are realistic?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1389	It is primarily Oslo University Hospital and Health South-East that are responsible for assessing realism in these requirements, but I also have the opportunity to compare this with other similar projects. Oslo doesn't stand out that way. What is a significant difference is that here we will get into the unique situation that one in Oslo, as in the rest of the country, will get a total regional hospital. That is what is demanding – both professional and economic – about the operation of Oslo University Hospital, which distinguishes Oslo University Hospital from the other regional hospitals by sharing these functions between two hospitals. There is a significant overall efficiency gain. Not least, there is a great professional gain, a great gain for patients and also a national gain in terms of better use of a professional capacity lacking at national level.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1394	I also thank you for the additional reply. After the merger in the OYS, some functions have begun to be grouped together, and Ullevål and the Rikshospital have been better coordinated. At least in the years since it started, the efficiency gain that the Council of State says he thinks will come has not been seen. I would like to ask the Council of State if he sees any similarities between the process we are now engaged in and the process that has been around Aker Hospital. They also said first that you would get huge values out of the sale of the plots, which you depended on in order to finance the project. Then it turned out – when you came to reality, potential buyers and so on, and what you wanted to give – that those values were not so big. It also turned out that one started talking about that there is no prestige in it – among other things. The state council that's here now. And in the next phase, when you saw the local hospital capacity needs in Oslo in the years to come, you started to want to build on Aker. The question is: do we need new local hospital capacity again in Oslo around 2030, isn't it the most economical thing to keep a local hospital on Ullevål?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1403	The answer to that is obviously no, to pursue activity both on Ullevål and on Gaustad and to have a divided regional hospital is not reasonable either economically or professionally based on a local concern for the patients in Oslo, or professionally for the benefit of the patients in the rest of the country. Therefore, I am very pleased with the decision made by the Oslo Workers' Party this weekend, where one was very clear at the collection of a regional hospital, but had an assessment of the plot options between Gaustad and Ullevål. There are plot options that one will now get further illuminated, and I have said all the way that I have no prestige attached to which plot to build the new regional hospital in Oslo. But all the data available now suggests that the most sensible thing is to build on Gaustad. If the lighting shows something else, we get to take it over us, but I perceive that Oslo Arbeiderparti is also clear about the importance of collecting Gaustad and Ullevål, and I am pleased about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1411	Thank you for yesterday, Minister of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1416	Here in the hall, to underline it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1421	Yes, here in the hall. ‘In several countries abortion resistance and concrete obstacles to abortion are now emerging. Most of the developments are in Poland, Portugal, Italy and Hungary. The European Court of Human Rights has responded to several countries because they have not respected women's rights in line with the European Convention on Human Rights. We must therefore expect the new abortion restrictions to be introduced by the government in Norway, in those countries, to be interpreted as political support for the fight against women's self-determination on abortion. Is the government comfortable with that?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1430	Sexual and reproductive health and reproductive rights, including the principle that abortion is legal, must be safe, are terms that have had a consensus in the UN since the 1994 Cairo action programme. These are now under strong pressure, as the representative points out. Safe abortion, sexual education, sexual orientation and gender identity are themes of major global disagreement. As the representative points out, there is also an increasing trend towards more pressure in European countries. There's a development government not comfortable with. Norway’s position in this area is very well known, and is known internationally and also recognizable. We are a strong driver of this rights agenda, and we have increased our transfers and appropriations to strengthen sexual and reproductive health. Then the Granavolden platform determines that the government doesn't want to make changes to the abortion law beyond removing the opening of self-determined abortion of one or more healthy multiples in a pregnancy, so-called birth reduction, but then before the limit of self-determined abortion. That is exactly what the Minister for Health said here in the Chamber. This means that these matters go to consideration. It is important to stress that in the discussions that are, of course, still — and it is also stated in the draft consultation — we will place great emphasis on the position of the woman and on the situation of the woman. We are now working from the government to get the correct information about the proposed change. We are sometimes confronted with misinformation and information that is both misinterpreted and abused politically. I myself had a statement to the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights in Geneva last week when I was asked about this from her. I explained what the proposed change actually involves, how few cases are involved, and also how the Norwegian legislation is compared to the legislation of other European countries. When that explanation was given, it was very clear to the High Commissioner that this was something quite different from what she had been presented in this case. It helped to clarify. But we are now working with the Ministry of Health and Health in order to be able to use our embassies as well to provide accurate information on what is the actual proposed change, which is something quite different from what is sometimes interpreted as. I believe it is important that we, from the Norwegian side, both government parties and opposition, contribute to conveying what is the correct version of this consultation proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1443	Thanks for the answer. I am absolutely convinced that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is equally concerned about the development that I myself am, and I am pleased with the efforts that Norway has made over several years. Providing correct information is important, but it rarely contributes to creating great momentum in the world. Among other things, we see: development in the United States, where it rarely benefits. My point is that the government must also take responsibility for the signals it gives, and the impressions that are being created in the world, and it must also take responsibility for how the invitation to change the abortion regime in Norway helps to legitimize abortion resistance in other countries. The government must take responsibility for the impression given. I have to ask the question in a slightly different way: Regardless of this with correct information — how will the government prevent or compensate for the changes and the debate that have taken place in Norway helping to legitimize abortion resistance in other countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1452	Here, I think the representative is in the middle of something very important. There are differences between the amendments proposed and the debate that has taken place. The debate that has taken place has far exceeded the actual changes and the consultation proposal. I think it is a completely wrong premise when the representative Eide believes that these small changes, which concern very few cases, and which, according to what the health minister just said, have been possible in Norway for only two years, help to legitimize an abortion resistance in other countries. Rather, Norway’s attitude towards both sexual and reproductive health and rights to safe and safe abortion is well known. We spend a lot of money on it every year, and we talk about it in political forums. Among other things, we have given 23 recommendations on abortion and 9 recommendations on sexual and reproductive health in the UN Human Rights Council in the annual reviews, including: to countries such as Ireland, the United States and Poland.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1457	Thank you so much for that answer. In the same way as I now refer to the restrictions imposed in other countries, abortion opponents in other countries will use the political debate in Norway about this as a way of legitimising political changes. Whether the changes in Norway are tiny, medium or large, the changes in Norway, the debate that has taken place in Norway, as well as the invitation that the Prime Minister made to the Christian People's Party in the autumn to withdraw abortion into the government negotiations, will be used politically to legitimise abortion resistance in other countries as well. That is what is my concern, and that is what I am asking the Minister for Foreign Affairs to explain how she will compensate for.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1464	I have now done that in two answers. I believe that there is a connection between trying to use our foreign service to get what is professionally correct about this amendment and what debate we can expect in other countries. Our line in abortion issues, sexual and reproductive health in international context is well known and has been stuck for a very long time. It keeps going. At the same time, a change has been proposed in Norway, which is a slight change, on which the Minister of Health was involved, for very few, and it is not a question of depriving women of the right to self-determined abortion on a general basis. We want to communicate this, because if you don't communicate it, and if you just base the debate on this, I agree that there can be a false impression. But it's not about the change. In that case, it is about the debate that follows from it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1472	‘15. This year, together with Iceland and Liechtenstein, Norway sent a letter to the EU. The letter calls on the EU to adopt a new directive requiring Norwegian municipalities and counties and the government to present their own cases to the EU before they come to democratic treatment. The proposal will affect local democracy and national sovereignty and has aroused strong reactions. Will the government withdraw Norway's support for the Directive?»
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1479	First some information about the question itself, and it's nice that we can do it when we're going to answer it. The claim that the government has in any way called on the EU to adopt a directive that requires us to present so-called censorship issues before democratic treatment, and that in this way it will affect national democracy and local treatment, is wrong. The directive to which the representative aims is a proposal for an improved notification obligation regime for service law, and the content is still being discussed in the EU. We already have a notification obligation scheme for services. It does not empower the ESA to stop Norwegian service legislation, and the government will continue to do so. It will continue to be the Norwegian Services Act, adopted by Stortinget, which will set the framework for municipalities, departments and others in the field of service law. Today's reporting obligation system, that is, the one we already have for services, does not work as intended, and that is why, together with Iceland and Liechtenstein, we have asked the EU to put in place a better system. Improved reporting obligations are important in order to secure jobs and businesses. We have few regulation of services in Norway, while other EEA countries often regulate more. Today, Norwegian companies can experience that they are meeting illegal requirements. Therefore, a well-functioning notification obligation contributes to a level playing field in the EEA for the benefit of Norwegian companies. The proposal under discussion in the EU is that legislation should be notified when there is a draft. It is worth noting that we have had such a duty to notify Norwegian product codes since the entry into force of the EEA Agreement. It works, and it contributes to good, safe goods and transparency for businesses on current legislation. The EEA countries, ESA and the Commission may make representations and objections to the requirements to be imposed, while at the same time making a new legislation known throughout the EEA. It shall contribute to the enforcement of existing legislation when new demands are made on business. We can both make good sense and improve service law before national adoption. It is well known from e.g. national consultation processes that we have. When the EEA/EFTA countries give an opinion as they have now done, it is an example that we use the space for action to promote Norwegian interests before the legislation is adopted. It is an active European policy. The government has talked about that before, we've done that before, and we're going to keep doing that. The government will continue to promote Norwegian interests vis-à-vis the EU. It is our responsibility, and therefore we will not withdraw Norway's input into the ongoing negotiations on the obligation to notify services legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1492	Unfortunately, the government shows zero respect for the Norwegian people, who on two occasions have said no to Norwegian membership of the EU. Instead of standing up to the Norwegian People’s Council, one on a case-by-case basis helps the EU to override Norwegian decisions more and more. There is something fundamentally new in the proposal which is on the Commission's table. In the field of services today, we have a notification obligation for decisions that have already been taken. With the proposal on the table, one from the European Union will have to give prior approval to proposals under consideration in Norwegian municipalities, in Norwegian counties and in the government. It is a proposal that has provoked strong reactions within the EU, in order to threaten both local democracy and national sovereignty. Yes, the reactions have been so strong that the European Commission is now considering withdrawing the proposal. What does the Norwegian government do in that situation? Yes, it sends a letter and encourages the EU to adopt those rules. Will the government now draw Norway's support for that proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1497	The answer to the question is no. The representative continues to make incorrect claims – that is certainly a parliamentary way of saying it. It is not that what is now being discussed is a type of pre-approval of ESA. The natural thing about alerting is that if ESA thinks it's a breach of the law, it's going to be part of a dialogue, but there's no censorship or veto right from ESA. I just want to highlight what we're talking about. We're talking about reporting obligations for services regulated by the Services Act. This applies, for example: not labour law, social services, healthcare, financial services or transport services – to mention any exceptions. We have such a reporting obligation today. We have it for commodity laws. In other words, this is not an unknown. Then there is a polemic and exclusively polemic point when it is said that this is about EU membership or not. It must also be respected that the Norwegian people with a clear and overwhelming majority agree to the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1506	What happens to the EEA Agreement is that it is becoming more and more involved in national space of action, national sovereignty, through the proposals that the government is trying to overcome. The basis, as the European Commission itself writes in its proposal, is that today’s legislation limits the possibility to intervene proactively in the case of pending proposals. Therefore, a new rules are needed for all those services, unless they are explicitly exempted. It is about how to ensure good services throughout Norway. There are Norwegian local politicians in municipalities, counties and the Norwegian population who are best placed to make those assessments, not to intervene from the EU in the process. When protests are rising in countries by country in Europe, why does the Norwegian Government think that one should stand by this proposal for a directive?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1511	What the government has done is what the Stortinget repeatedly encourages us to do, namely to get into a process early and promote Norwegian interests. Let me underline that. The government does this because it promotes Norwegian interests. We do this because it promotes Norwegian businesses. It promotes a level playing field for Norwegian companies because Norwegian companies are, to a large extent, actually out in Europe. Just because we are a country that often has lighter or fewer regulations in the field of services, while many other countries have heavier regulations, Norwegian enterprises, Norwegian jobs, Norwegian enterprises across the country are affected if there are illegal changes coming in other European countries. That's the one. The second is that if the proposal on the obligation to notify services is adopted – and I stress, this is still a process and a discussion – it is probably also EEA-relevant. It changes a system we have today. Then it is likely to require a change in the law, in other words, to be presented to the Storting in a very common way, like all other matters, in line with the ordinary democratic rules of the game.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1519	I allow myself to ask the Minister of Labour the following questions: ‘The report of the Court of Auditors on the follow-up of the Petroleum Safety and Health Authority to the health, environment and safety of petroleum activities is critical on several points. Neither employees nor companies can afford to doubt the safety of the oil and gas industry, which is easier when control is financed by the companies themselves. Will the State Council now ask the Petroleum Authority to carry out independent supervision and to provide funding for it?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1528	Let me first stress that the safety level of the petroleum industry is high. At the same time, safety is fresh. It is therefore necessary to work in a targeted manner every day to ensure and further develop this. But the responsibility for security lies with the companies. Since the start-up of the Norwegian base, the industry has covered the expenditure of the authorities’ supervision. And as the representative is well-known, it is the Storting that, through annual expenditure and income appropriations, determines the level of activity of the Petroleum Authority. The follow-up of the Petroleum Supervision Authority is risk-based, which means that supervision is targeted at those actors or devices where HMS conditions are most challenging, at conditions that may increase the risk of adverse events and where the action of the Petroleum Control Authority will be most effective. The funding of supervision does not go along with this. An important basis for the risk assessments of the Petroleum Authority is the project Risk level in Norwegian petroleum activities, RNNP. This work is organised in cooperation with industry, administrations and relevant research environments and contributes to a broad and unified understanding of the challenges facing the sector. In April 2018, I submitted a message to Stortinget about HMS in the petroleum industry. This will be discussed, inter alia: Supervisory activities of the Petroleum Control Authority. The size joined the signals in the message. As an important follow-up point, I have asked the Petroleum Authority to carry out a development work to clarify and further develop its supervisory strategy and instrument use. I believe it is the supervision itself that needs to assess, on a professional basis, the effective follow-up of the companies. At the same time, Petroleum monitoring must be a strong and transparent supervision, which will apply the full range of instruments if necessary. As the representative points out, the National Audit Board presented its management audit of the Petroleum Control Agency in January of this year. The national audit report points to several of the same themes addressed in that HMS message. The development work following the notification is therefore largely comprehensive also for the National Audit Office’s comments and recommendations. Petroleum monitoring is well under way with this work. I assume that the Petroleum Inspectorate will follow up the work in a good manner, and will follow the development work, among other things. through the etat management dialogue.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1549	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I want to go into what the Riksrevision actually said when presenting its report in January of this year. The press release says, among other things: the seriousness of the low impact of the Petroleum Supervision on the safety performance of the companies. They also say that the supervisory methodology does not contribute to the identification of serious safety challenges. Furthermore, they say that the Petroleum Inspectorate gave Eni Norway AS the consent to use the Goliath platform even if it was not in a safe state. They also say that the Petroleum Control has not followed up that Equinor has actually learned from past serious incidents, and that of course it is particularly serious, since Equinor stands for more than 70 pst. of all petroleum activity in Norway. How will the State Council characterise the National Audit Office’s description of the work of the Petroleum Authority?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1554	The National Audit Office's report is serious. At the same time, I would also like to say that the comments and analyses made by the Riksrevision are largely in line with what has been seen in the past. Goliath has been a platform with which the supervision has worked over very many years. There was a lot of experience from Goliath and other platforms, and the feedback from the industry itself, both on the employee's side and on the employer's side, which was the starting point for us to put down the party selection, led by Ole Andreas Engen, who also provided the basis for the HMS message that I mentioned and which the Storting has dealt with. So we have a coincidence between what was the background to the party work we started, and what the Riks revision also points out in its report. The HMS message also says something about how the supervisory regime should be in the future. We've had a lot of excitement about it in Stortinget. I notice that the trade unions too are now satisfied with the work done, and we will of course follow up on the supervision in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1559	I'm going to continue with the trade unions, because health, environment and safety for employees, but also nature, are the carriers of the oil and gas industry's social contract. And if society can't guarantee security, we can't ask employees to do the job they're doing for us all on the base. The working party is concerned that the employees now say that they have lost confidence in the Petroleum Authority. Employees and trustees of the Energy Federation SAFE, in Equinor, say they have lost faith in the Petroleum Authority. Oil and gas industries cannot afford to have doubts about safety work. The Council of State is politically responsible for the HMS work in the petroleum sector. Therefore, I wonder what concrete steps the Council of State has taken to restore confidence in the work of the HMS among the parties in the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1564	HMS is clearly important. Petroleum industry is, of course, an industry which, by its very nature, can have a major accident potential, with the disadvantages and dangers it can bring. We have a high level of safety in the Norwegian petroleum industry today, and we also see that developments have been positive over time. There have been a few years when there have been different factors that have made it a decrease, but it is now back where it was, and it is a good development. It was on the basis of the turmoil in the oil industry as a result of the oil price fall that I set down a party-based selection under the direction of Professor Engen, who laid the basis for an HMS message presented on the Stortinget last year, to which the Stortinget joined. I record that Industry Energy, a central trade union, is satisfied with the follow-up that has been done, and is satisfied with the measures that have been initiated. Then it's important to stress, also in the light of the previous question, that the HMS follow-up, security, it's the industry's responsibility, and they have to make sure that what the Riksrevision and others now point out is also followed up in their operations.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1571	The next question is from the representative Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes. He's not in the room.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1585	This question has been withdrawn. Question no. 16 is from Lise Christoffersen. She's not in the room either, and we're going to question 17.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1595	‘The size increased the number of VTA sites by 700 for 2019. [[durable work]] Nevertheless, very many people are waiting to receive such an important offer. Particularly serious is the fact that it is not a seamless transition from high school to VTA that gives meaningful participation in the labour market. Can the Council of State provide an overview showing how many will be in line at municipal level after the 2019 allocation, and explain the plan of the government to cut the queues?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1602	The representative Lundtigen asks if I can explain the plan of the government to cut the queues in VTA. In the Jeløya platform, the then government parties signalled a goal of strengthening the provision of permanent work. This was repeated in the Granavolden platform. The state budget for 2019 has followed this up by providing 700 new places. This is in addition to an upgrading of about 400 places in 2018 and about 70 places for testing VTA under municipal law that was launched in 2018. This is a historically strong increase. Any future increase in the number of new posts must be considered in the ordinary budgetary process. The target group for the VTA is persons who receive or are expected to receive disability benefit in the near future and who need special arrangements and close follow-up. There is no national overview of the number of people in need of a place in permanent work. Such an overview will also be difficult to make. In 2012, the Labour Research Institute, AFI, carried out a study that concluded that, at the time, there was an increased need for action places in permanent organised work. At the same time, however, the AFI pointed out that there were different views among stakeholders on the extent of this need, and there are different approaches to meeting the growing need for sustained work. The local Nav offices have regulated this differently. While some Nav offices operate with a waiting list, other Nav offices choose to assign places after a specific need assessment when there is a vacancy in the action. In addition to an increase in the number of places in the country as a whole, it may also be important to look at the distribution. Under-coverage experience is reinforced in many places by a distorted distribution of VTA sites between the country's counties and municipalities. Remedying regional imbalances is necessary in order to achieve justice and to strengthen permanently organised work as a whole. This is a process that the Working and Welfare Act is in progress and will have to go over some time.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1615	I thank you for your answer. I like the increase in 700 places. There's a Christian People's Party doing a good job, in line with what's been the Central Party line all along. I've noticed former Right-State Council Victor D. Norman, who was the head of the ASVL, the National Association of Labor Cooperations, and who held the appeal in front of the Stortinge in the fall in what was called the year's most important lunch. Norman held there a glittering post, showing the need for VTA sites and VTO sites. I understand that the government doesn't have an overview of how many are in line, but my main question is, as it shows, what plan the government has to cut the queues. If we start with the situation of high school students, then my follow-up question is, is it the government's opinion that you should have a seamless transition from high school for those who are in the medical situation, by automatically getting a VTA when they're done with high school?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1624	I don't think I can promise you that you'll automatically get a VTA space. It depends on how many VTA places you actually have, but the government has a clear ambition to increase the number of VTA places. I think we have, too. In recent years, we have increased the number of VTA places – not just with the 700 places that the representative Lundtigen refers to; we have increased the number of VTA places by around 1,500. There is a significant increase over a relatively short period compared to prior periods. It's because we're concerned that those who can, will and have the opportunity to participate and contribute to the world of work, will be able to do so. I cannot now anticipate what the 2020 budget will be like, but we have shown a clear willingness to prioritise VTA sites in the past. We've said on the Granavolden platform that we want to do it in the future too, and that's because we think it's important that this group should also be able to participate in work and activity, in line with everyone else.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1631	I have given tribute to the 700 new places in 2019. I am aware that there have been new places in the past, and I am aware that there has been a huge undercover and an enormous need for action in this area. I am aware that this is about money – this is about approx. 200,000 kroner for every place we talk about – but is it really the way it is going to be for the young people and the relatives who are in the situation that one is out of high school, and should get an offer of VTA or VTO, but not get it, as a result of the State providing too little for it? Is it really the government's priority for that group?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1636	The 2012 AFI survey, which I referred to, showed that an estimated 2 000 – 5 000 seats were missing in the VTA. That the red-green government would not prioritize it, I shall not claim, but it is a fact that this type of place depends on the fact that the accumulation and government actually grants money. If you don't give money to that, it's hard to set up places, they're going to be financed. This government has a clear ambition and also shows a clear willingness to prioritize this by aligning this with 1,500 places in our period. It's a significant increase compared to what it was. We have ambitions to increase this further, because we believe that this group too should and must, as far as they can, have an offer of work and activity, in line with others. We've had a municipal experiment to see if the municipalities can also do this in a good way, but it's still to be seen when the results come.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1645	Then we go back to question 16, from the representative Lise Christoffersen to the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs. The President will invite representatives to be out in good time, so that one is in place in the Chamber when the question is to be asked.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1655	I am sorry that I was not present when I was called up. It went a little faster than I had calculated. I sat and went to the office, but I didn't get there. I'm sorry. My question is as follows: «Domestic Workers Convention, 2011 [[No. 189]] Why has Norway not ratified the Convention, and when can the Storting expect the government to follow up this matter?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1666	The ILO estimates that there are at least 67 million so-called domestic workers worldwide. This may be a vulnerable group in many countries. The ILO's Domestic Workers Convention provides a comprehensive and detailed regulation of most aspects of employment involving workers in private homes. In Norway, the rules of the Labour Environment Act apply in full where the employee is employed in private or in public activities and carries out work in private homes, for example: as a craftsman or a municipal home worker. The Working Environment Act must be considered as complying with the requirements of the Convention. It is different if the employee is employed by a private employer to carry out work at the employer’s home. In such cases, the Working Environment Act does not apply directly. Such working conditions are regulated by the regulations governing work in the home of the private employer. The regulation is adapted to this group and gives slightly less rights than the Working Environment Act. It does not fully comply with the requirements of the Convention. In Norway, there are likely to be few ‘domain workers’ who do not already enjoy protection under the Working Environment Act. However, if Norway is to be able to ratify the Convention, it has to be amended at different points. Any ratification could strengthen the rights of the «domestic workers» in Norway, which are currently covered by the regulation, but also strengthen the international impact of the Convention. The Ministry is now working on a review of current changes with a view to a consultation in order to assess the possible ratification of ILO Convention No. 189. In the light of the consultation, we will take a final decision on the issue of ratification.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1679	I thank you for your answer. Already on 2 June 2017, the then State Council Per Sandberg said that the department had the matter to assess, so I wonder why it takes so long to assess the matter. ‘Active’ and ‘executive’ are the words that the government likes to use about itself. In the shadow report to the UN on the Women’s Convention in 2017, 22 different organisations supported the Norwegian ratification requirement, and the LO came already three years ago with proposals for what Norway had to do to bring Norwegian practice into line with the Convention, with concrete proposals for regulatory changes. So my question is, when can we expect the matter to come to Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1690	It's true that it's taken time, it's just been a capacity question – to be completely honest, and you have to be from this pulpit. This has been longer than desirable. We're working on it and we're going to do it as soon as possible – there's a process going on. At the same time, it is important to stress that in Norway this applies to very, very few. When you buy private services at home — crafts, laundry services or whatever it may be — this is already covered by the Working Environment Act. When largely personal assistants are used, likely au pairs and others, they are subject to other laws and regulations to safeguard their rights and interests. In Norway, very few people are employed in a private home and provide services there. This does not mean that it is not important for the few, but in Norway it is very few. Internationally, there are a lot of them, and internationally, it is important to get this convention in place. The signal effect of Norway’s ratification is also important. But as I said, we are working on the matter, but for capacity reasons it has been longer than desirable. However, it is on the stairs, and it will come.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1699	Thanks for the answer. I think it is positive that the matter is under work, even though I record that the Council of State has not yet decided what the recommendation is. But in two days it's March 8th, the International Women's Day, and international solidarity is important in that day. This year, LO has a visit from the head of the International Trade Union for Domestic Workers, Myrtle Witbooi. We know that domestic workers in many countries are among the most exploited and vulnerable workers available. For Witbooi, it is important that as many countries as possible actually ratify the Convention so that it becomes heavier. My final question to the Council of State is: could the Council of State in connection with 8 March and Witbooi's visit expect to make a public statement that the Council of State is in favour of Norway ratifying the Convention within not too long?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1706	As I said in my first answer, the ratification of the Convention will obviously be an important signal internationally, by supporting the work that this Convention intends to do, namely to secure the millions of women who work in private homes around the world and who may also work under very poor conditions. With regard to the ratification of the Convention for Norway, it is not of such importance to whom it applies, as it goes without saying that in Norway there are relatively few persons who have employed persons in their own homes to carry out tasks there. But we're now going through the convention. We see what adaptations we need in Norwegian legislation to meet the requirements of the Convention. I dare not promise that it has been done by Friday, but I can promise that we will do so quickly, not least in view of the signal effect it has internationally that a country like Norway also ratifys a convention like this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1713	Then we move on to question 18.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1721	‘Nav Vestland has not been given a new VTA place in Hordaland and Sogn and Fjordane despite 700 new places in this year’s state budget. [[durable work]] Only in Bergen today there are 120 on the waiting list. Nav has allocated places to most young people in the count of VTA places. What will the government do to secure more VTA sites in the West as well, and will the Council assess award criteria for VTA sites?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1728	As the representative Toppe correctly says, the government has significantly increased the number of VTA sites in recent years. The Employment and Welfare Act is responsible for allocating VTA sites to different parts of the country. The Directorate's assessment is that the most appropriate allocation criterion is the number of unemployed under 40 years of age. However, the Directorate of Labour and Welfare points out that there is a bias in the allocation of response sites for permanent organised work to the counties when the distribution is seen in the context of the number of deaths. Thus, in the 2019 allocation, the Directorate of Labour and Welfare saw a need to balance differences. This has led to the fact that some of Nav's districts with more VTA sites compared to the population base than others have not been allocated new sites. In addition to Westland, this applies to Nordland, Troms and Finnmark. I support the Employment and Welfare Act's objective of a fairer distribution of VTA sites. Remedying regional imbalances is necessary in order to achieve justice and to strengthen permanently organised work as a whole. As a result, some relatively low-covered counties have been given more places than before. The representative Top asked if I would consider other award criteria. So far, the director believes that looking at the under 40s is a reasonable distribution criterion. Research shows that young people are often suffering seriously. Many of these will therefore be persons in need of permanent work. The Directorate of Labour and Welfare has an ongoing assessment of the best award criteria. I see no need to review the assessment that the directorate has made.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1739	Is it not a political decision that the allocation plan created is not? Is he made up in the directorate? Not last year, that is, in 2018, was one of the new places that came through the state budget, which was allocated to Hordaland. This was before the merger that created the county of Westland. My concern is that, with these award criteria also in future increases in the number of VTA sites, there will be no new places to Western, Northern and Finnmark. There is great cause for concern, at least when the Council of State does not know how many people are on the waiting list in the different municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1746	As I said in my reply to the representative Lundtigen, there is no national overview, but the local Nav offices have different types of overview of it. Some have waiting lists, others have other lists showing who wants space. Whether the allocations are politically decided? No, they're not. This is entirely a professional assessment, and I trust that the directorate will make good professional assessments. I agree with the Directorate that there should be a fairest possible distribution of VTA sites – fair in the sense that the allocation reflects the needs of the different states. I also believe that it is appropriate that the criterion be applied to young people under 40 years of age. Young people will also have several years left in the labour market. So that's going to be right. The most important thing now is to increase the number of VTA places. The government has shown a willingness to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1755	We do not disagree that the award criterion should be young people under 40 years of age. The situation in Bergen is that 120 young people under 40 are on the waiting list. My question is not about the allocation criterion, but whether it's enough to have it as the only criterion, because it doesn't take into account the real need. This could be done, for example, by: be different from Balestrand and Bergen, and when one does not have, for example: a waiting list, and I don't want to know about and ask for a searchlist, I can't understand that the government supports the directorate in that this is a perfectly fair system to allocate VTA places after, when we know that large states are not allocated, despite the relatively large increase in VTA places that have been.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1760	Whether a waiting list is appropriate is not so good to say. It depends a little on whether or not there is a match between what may be left of vacant spaces at the disposal of the user and the needs and assumptions of the user. There are very different user groups – users are very different – and the different VTA locations are also very different. What has been the challenge is that there have been too few VTA sites in general. That is why the government of both the Jeløya platform and the Granavolden platform has a clear and clear ambition to increase the number of VTA sites. We have also shown our willingness to do so through our budgets. We've increased the number of VTA places by approx. 1500. There's a pretty significant percentage increase in the number of VTA locations. We have done this because it has been very necessary to increase the number of places for this user group. We see that there are many in this user group who have both opportunities, desires and abilities to contribute to the labour market, and we want to facilitate that. Then there are several places that are the solution. I'm not going to advance the budget that's coming, but we have a clear ambition to increase the number further.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1767	Then we go back to question 14.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1775	«We are far away from a society where women earn as much as men. Women are more educated in welfare and service professions, where wages are relatively lower. In addition, there are considerable differences in wages and salaries for women and men with almost equal education and occupations, especially in the private sector, where most men work. This pay gap has serious consequences for women's independence and, in the long term, the recruitment of crucial professions in well-being and society. What will the Council of State do?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1782	Recent data from the SSB show that wage differences between women and men continue to decrease. On average, women made barely 13 pst. less than men last year. For full-time employees, the distance is reduced to 11,5 pst. In addition, we are very well placed at international level. It's a pleasure, but it's not enough. Important reasons for differences in pay are that women and men choose different education and occupations and work in different industries. A smaller gender-based working life requires more people to choose education that violates today’s gender-based role-playing patterns. If women continue to choose typical women-dominated education and training and later occupations with high levels of part-time participation, the cohesion between women and men in working life will slow down. For this reason, the government has supported concrete proposals that support non-traditional study choices, and we have reduced a range of challenges to gender-based education and training choices, and will propose measures to break such patterns. The development is going in the right direction. Young people choose less typical women’s or men’s occupations. It's about girls, and it's about boys. For example, in recent years, according to SSB figures, the proportion of men who choose health and growth has increased. At the same time, it is important to stress that the social partners are responsible for conducting wage negotiations and agreeing on wage increases and the distribution of the supplements. Most of the observed wage differences can be explained. However, the remaining unexplained wage differences are a challenge, which employers also have to address. Wage discrimination is prohibited by law. A legislative proposal to strengthen gender equality obligations has been consulted and sent to the Stortinget in the spring of 2019. According to this proposal, employers in public and private enterprises with more than 50 employees will have an obligation to identify differences in pay between women and men. This will provide a basis for assessing the existence of gender-based pay differentials so that prevention can be implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1799	I thank you for your answer. Of course, choices for women and men are an important part of this, but what is a deeper systematic reason, and the reason why we have this challenge, is what is often referred to as the discrimination against valuation. This means that the traditionally female-dominated occupations are systematically less paid than the occupations that men traditionally do well. It also means that you can't solve this by pointing to women's choices, because then we're going to have big problems recruiting people to the traditionally female-dominated professions. Take, for example: municipal sector: 80 pst. of those who work there are women, and on average they tend to be significantly lower than men in the corresponding profession of equal education and of equal value. What would the State Council do with the valuation problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1808	I don't think any pay differences are due to the fact that you don't value the jobs that women have; it's going to be to draw it a little bit well. What you can see is that the pay gap is largely due to the fact that women and men choose different education, different industries and different sectors. And when you peel away everything that can be explained, you're still left with 5-6 pst. which is unexplained. I guess that's what you can assume because of a discriminating gender dimension. As I mentioned in my previous reply, the government has taken several steps to strengthen women's ability to choose differently and men's ability to choose differently. We see that more women work full-time, we see that fewer work part-time, we see that more women are now leaders than before. This will also help to reduce pay differentials. Then there are also benefits of working in the public sector that men in the private sector do not have, but there is another question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1819	I very much agree that it is very important that both women and men should be able to choose freely, that is, that the kind of job they are well paid is equally well paid, with the corresponding long-term education, the corresponding responsibility and seniority. And we see that this is not the case today. If we, for example, Compares nurse pay with engineering wages, education is as long, and one has good comparisons that show that there is the same education, seniority and responsibility, tenors of women who work as nurses, significantly lower than men who work as engineers, including in the same sector, i.e. in the municipal sector. I would like to ask you a question about what the Council of State was talking about in the last part of its main response: the social partners. The Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women had a grilling of the government during a hearing in Geneva in 2017, and then they said that it was not enough to point out to the social partners, here the state had to take a more proactive role to raise the gap that has developed. What has been the follow-up from the Council of State on that?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1826	Wages and salaries are the responsibility of the parties. Now we are also in the middle of wage negotiations, and I am not going to interfere with what the party is negotiating about. Often, the gender dimension is also part of the parties’ wage negotiations. When you look at pay differences, it's also important that not only is there wages and salaries, it's also a pension, and you see that there's different pensions in the private and public sectors. When comparing engineers and nurses, it is also important to bear in mind that many of the engineers working in the private sector are more cyclical than the public sector nurses, to take these groups. When you see how the oil price fell, it hit men to a great extent. Unemployment increased among men and not among women. It is also linked to women choosing sectors that are less competitive and less vulnerable to economic activity than men do, and it is also part of this discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1833	Then we go to question 19.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1841	My question is: ‘In 2015, the current Minister for Climate and Environment said that the State must intervene and deal with the issue of a new landfill for hazardous waste nationally and that the different options need to be assessed before a decision is taken. When will the Council of State take serious account of its previous statements and take current responsibility and decide where the new hazardous waste landfill should be?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1850	Today's landfill for hazardous waste on Lang Island will be full within a few years. In 2016, on behalf of the Ministry of Climate and Environment, the Environment Directorate assessed that four sites could be suitable for a new landfill. For two of these sites, the Dalen mine in Brevik, Porsgrund and Rådsand in Nesset, impact assessments of potential landfills for hazardous waste have now been developed. The Ministry of Climate and Environment has been responsible for defining the plan programme for a possible landfill in Brevik because Porsgrund stopped the planning process in 2015. The impact assessments of a possible landfill in the Nestet and of a possible landfill in Brevik strengthen the basis of knowledge in the case. At the same time, I am concerned about assessing how the amount of hazardous waste can be reduced and whether increased material recovery of hazardous waste is possible. I also believe that we need to consider how stimulating technology development can contribute to this. The Directorate-General for the Environment has been entrusted with the task of establishing a plan to limit the amount of hazardous waste and is also to be assessed in the Department. The need for further State involvement in order to ensure adequate treatment capacity for hazardous waste and the way in which it is now assessed. At this stage, it is not possible to say when a decision will be taken to that effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1859	It started with twelve different options, and you're left with two. It's very popular among different politicians to be in these places and say what people want to hear: here it's nothing, take it easy. I think the Council of State has a very great responsibility here to reassure the citizens, no matter what choice you make. My first question is: does the Council of State have the opportunity to decide whether Sylvi Listhaug and others from the government parties have a mandate to say no or yes in different places? The council itself has been in Brevik and said no. Does that mean that there won't be any landfill at all? Or does that mean that it's a little uncertain and open to anyone in the government parties to have their own solutions to this? I think it's important that the government speaks with one tongue and one mouth. That's why it's important to know what you really stand for.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1866	It's the government that's going to make a decision, and there's different processes. One is in Nesset, which is a normal planning process by having a control plan via the municipality, and it is treated in the usual way. In Brevik, it is different because the municipality has not wanted to go ahead with a planning process, and therefore the plan and impact assessment have been carried out by the Ministry of Climate and Environment. Whether a government plan decision is to be taken, it will be the government that will have to make an assessment and that assessment will be carried out. What's important to me is to discuss how to treat hazardous waste. Then it's also about what technological developments we can imagine, and how we're going to limit the amount of hazardous waste, which is also part of both the Jæløya Declaration and the Granavolden Declaration. So it's a holistic view that we have to assume when we're going to make our decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1873	Last year, Stortinget addressed a big message about waste as a resource and a circular economy. There was a two and a half line from the government about what to do with hazardous waste. It was actually a little thin ground to think about how to deal with this nationally. I'm very happy that the government and the state council say you should look at how to reduce the waste. It's clear that we have a goal in the big message that we're going to get the circular economy of 25 pst. of the hazardous waste. It would have reduced a lot. Norway imports a great deal of hazardous waste. Here are some dynamics that it's important, as the council points out, to get hold of. I'm very happy to hear that. In Raudsand in More and Romesdal, this discussion started on a kind of minusbudget, because people are already afraid. It's a landfill that's been before, that's not cleaned up. So I think it's important that the Council of State follows up that it's going to happen, regardless of the choice that's being taken a little bit further in time here.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1880	The environmental side of Raudsand will be followed up by the Environment Directorate, while the planning process will now follow the usual planning process with a regulatory plan. So it will be dealt with if it finally comes – through objections or other coming in – to the government. This is about hazardous waste being something we have to look at. That's right. A large part of this is sulphuric acid. The fly ash, also imported, is a large part of this. However, there are also hazardous waste coming from 200 to 250 other Norwegian companies. So we have to have a whole in this, how we imagine that this amount can be reduced, where we can pick up more resources, but also that eventually there will be something that there is a need to deposit.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1890	‘The company Svaice will use the glacier Svartisen to make ice cubes for bars around the world. The project will have major environmental and climate impacts and face local environment and travel resistance. The county has now withdrawn its objection to the project and it is now only a local policy decision on the project to be implemented. Why has the State, at the County State, withdrawn the objection and the Council of State considers it appropriate to destroy parts of the glacier in order to sell as ice cubes?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1897	Meløy municipality's proposal for a detailed control plan for the extraction of ice from Svartisen, which was sent at the hearing on 25 June 2018, was met with objections from the County of Fylkesmann in Northernland and Nordland County. By letter of 19 February 2019, the County Government has waived its objection to the plan to extract ice cream from the Svartisen under given conditions. The assumption of abstinence was, among other things, limitations were imposed on the timing of the extraction and transport of ice masses. The municipality of Nordland has maintained its objection to the plan. This is justified in particular by: consideration of natural diversity, landscape, nature experience and outdoor life. As there is an objection that has not been resolved locally, it will normally be tried in the case. If this does not result, the matter will be sent to the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, which will take a final decision on the plan. In opposition cases where nature and outdoor life are used for reasons, the Ministry of Climate and Environment will be asked to make a recommendation on the matter before a decision is taken. I believe that the preservation of our glaciers, which are melting faster and faster, is very important. However, as my department can be involved in this matter by a possible opposition decision at government level, I do not think it is right to go into the details of the case about the extraction of ice in the Svartisen now. The Environment Directorate recently submitted a proposal for the extension of the Svartisen National Park. This proposal also includes somewhat more protection of the Svart ice in the south and a reinforced protection of the threatened mountain reef in the whole area. My department is now working too hard to complete the protection plan. The Ministry also deals with so-called supplementary protection. Here we will give priority to habitat types that we have not today protected a representative sample of, and endangered habitat types. We've already protected over 70 pst. of the areas of glaciers in mainland Norway. All these glaciers have been assessed by the Species database as threatened by global climate change. So the most important thing we can do is work both nationally and internationally to reduce climate change. That's what this government is doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1914	We're all reading in the newsprint about the Left crisis. Yesterday I saw that the leader of the Young Left believed that the Left State Councils had now begun to speak an official language, and that it was impossible to understand what they meant politically. I think the answer we just heard was an illustration of that. Large parts of the Svartisen are national parks and have both a regional and a national value. The glaciers around the world are threatened by climate change. With respect to reporting, it's a co-ko project that we're going to drill out ice cubes to sell them all over the world like ice cubes in luxury drinks at luxury restaurants in New York and Dubai. Is it really the case that the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment has no idea whether it is right that such a project should be carried out in Svartisen, a national pearl for Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1921	This is an objection case, and I intend to take part in deciding this if there is an objection case, and then I can give no indication of what is going to be my decision, now. But otherwise I would like to say that we also have to follow this case based on where it is now, because now it is in Meløy municipality. It is Meløy Municipality that is going to take this decision first, and I believe that the Labour Party representative is also in contact with his representatives in Meløy – as far as I know, both the rapporteur and the vice-president of the Labour Party. On the left hand side, I have at least had contact with our local team in Meløy, which indicates that they will not be in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1928	It's like the state has a meaning. The countyman is the man of the state. The new county of Northern Ireland has now raised the two previous objections. The vice president of the left says it gets the man of the state – his own man – just do, while the local politicians of the left say: ‘It is shocking that the County Council has now turned into such a thoroughly investigated case. [[...]] So that's what the local politicians of the Left say about the decision that the state, through the County of Northern Ireland, has made. But I understand that the Council of State is not willing to answer, and then I will ask a question on a more general basis. One thing is the concrete examples of noise and the local environment. But from a climate point of view: does the Council of State believe it is sound and proper to carry out helicopter take-offs – whether from the Black Sea or elsewhere – to sell as much as a luxury product as ice cubes actually are, and fly it all over the world? Does the Council of State believe that selling ice cubes in this way is a sound policy from a climate point of view?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1940	Firstly, I have to say that the County is taking a position on objections based on environmental considerations. The county must follow what is the department's circular, and I assume that they have done so in this case as well. There is just one objection from the county. It will be dealt with in the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation if one does not reach agreement, and I will also be part of that process. That's the formalities of this. Otherwise, I would like to say that you also have a local responsibility in these kinds of matters. The representative referred to the representative of the Left in Meløy Municipality, with whom I have also been in contact. I would also like to suggest that you also have contact with your local elected representatives, because there is no doubt that there is a need for these kinds of issues to be raised at government level.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1953	«Norwegian Forest Saugbruks is a green and traditional establishment in a competitive market. The environmental directorate’s refusal to apply for compensation for CO 2 by the company leads to an estimated start of 80 million. crowns behind its competitors for the current year. What will the Council of State do to ensure an equivalent level playing field for Norwegian Forest Saugbruks in Halden?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1963	The current CO 2 compensation scheme was established in 2013 and is valid until 2020. The aim of the scheme is to counteract carbon leakage as a result of an increase in electricity prices at the time of the establishment of the EU climate quota system in 2005. Carbon leakage means that activity and investment are moved to countries outside Europe with lower electricity prices. The scheme is voluntary and 11 EU countries have introduced a CO 2 compensation scheme. In the Nordic region, only Finland and Norway have introduced such schemes. The CO 2 compensation scheme is a regulated scheme. Production with electricity consumption that can be covered in whole or in part by long-term contracts of power concluded before 2005 is excluded from the calculation of compensation. The reason for this is that these power contracts did not have an increased price that gave rise to a risk of carbon leakage. Curtailment shall take place if the activity has power on 15 May 2012. Subsequent changes to the contract shall not be taken into account under the CO 2 compensation regulation. The reason for this is that strategic adaptations to this rule will be avoided. Suction use qualifies for and receives CO 2 compensation, but compensation is reduced or curtailed because Suction used at the point of intersection in 2012 had power under a long-term power contract. The Directorate-General for the Environment has recently evaluated a request for conversion from Saugbrugs, but has found that there is no basis for conversion. Norwegian Forest Saugbruks has in a letter dated 28 February this year asked that the Ministry of Climate and Environment also assess the matter. I cannot say how long the procedure will take, except that the matter will be prioritised and decided without undue delay. Now this is a matter that lies with the department, and we will make this assessment based on the letter we received from Norwegian Forest Saugbrugs.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1989	The government has a bad history in Eastfold after the introduction of air passenger charges, which led to the closure of the Rygge airport and several hundred lost jobs. They are now in the process of doing another thing – about 500 jobs – in Eastfold, where the government is passive and does not take seriously. The factory in Halden has changed the green in practice. The factory produces a unique low-CO 2 image and works to develop new green products in interaction with the existing paper production. Not least is the factory, and I know that the Council of State knows, important for the entire bioeconomy, which buys one million cubic meters every three years. The alternative to production in Norway is that we send the raw materials out of the country. These are arguments that should suit the Left, and the current representative of the Elevstu felt in his day that it was an important matter and an important industry. Now Elvesuen has the power to do something about the matter. Norwegian Skog at Thommess legal firm has shown that there is a legal room for action. Would the State Council like to use this legal space?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e1999	Saugbruks is definitely an important enterprise, and it is not that one has not had an active attitude towards Saugbruks. In particular, Enova has committed approximately 114 million since 2012. kr to Saugbruks. Support has been given to a more energy-efficient wood pulp plant. Support has also been provided for a biogas plant at Saugbruks. That is the situation we are now in: we are now going to take that assessment in the light of the enquiry and the desire for a recast of the Environment DG's decision. It is an assessment and a decision to be taken in the ministry.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e2006	The Council of State has twice replied in writing that he will look at this when the CO 2 compensation scheme is due for reassessment. But this is how Norwegian Forest Suggbruk qualifies for a compensation scheme today, but gets a curtailment because of an old power agreement. There has been a bankruptcy in the traditional group, which we all know about. It has led to new owners, and a new power agreement is in place. A redefinition of the curtailment decision will not have any retroactive effect on the use of Saug or create a precedent for others, as the reason is due to the bankruptcy of the parent company. What does the Council of State think is the difference in reality between a new period for the CO 2 compensation scheme — to which he has referred in writing — which has not already occurred for Norwegian Forest Saugbrug in the bankruptcy of the operation and the new power agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e2019	We're going to make two different assessments. Firstly, Norwegian Forest Saugbrugs has a CO 2 compensation scheme and is within it. So it's absolutely right that we should also look at the situation in Saugbruks when we look at the extension of the CO 2 compensation scheme. This is the decision that needs to be taken in the EU, and it concerns 2020–2030. What we are about to assess now is the concrete desire for a recasting of the Environment DG's decision not to go away from the abbreviation that is now there. Now it's about the actual enquiry; that's what we're going to do in the ministry, and it's something other than assess how the CO 2 compensation scheme is going to look like from 2020 to 2030.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e2038	‘What will the Council of State do to provide Norwegian as a professional language for Norwegian research and education institutions, in addition to allowing the institutions to follow up on their own development?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e2043	The use of Norwegian as a specialised language has declined in the university and higher education sectors in recent years, while the use of English has increased. There was also some background to the fact that Minister of Culture Trine Skei Grande and I organised a conference on Norwegian as a professional language at the University of Oslo last November. The debate in the sector shows broad recognition of the legal responsibility of universities and higher education institutions to maintain and further develop Norwegian professional languages. Many have pointed out that there is particular reason to take care of Norwegian as a professional language in higher education, which is often closely related to Norwegian social and labour life. A good example is professional training. Without Norwegian professional language, health workers will not be able to have good conversations with their patients. Some of the same applies to the responsibility of the researchers for dissemination. Without a living Norwegian professional language, they will not be able to communicate their insights and results to a broad Norwegian-speaking audience. There are different views of the instruments. Some people want political rules or economic incentives. Others emphasise the principle of academic freedom, and that regulation results in detailed and perhaps not appropriate sets of rules. In line with the customary ethos management practice, in the first instance, I used the letters of allocation for 2019 to ask the institutions to pay particular attention to the development of Norwegian as a professional language and to assess the need for action. This is a clear message that I, as the Council of State, want to see a change, but that the institutions first have a chance to fix themselves. I believe that it would not be right if, as the Council of State, I should start this work of introducing political detailed regulation. In the light of a review of institutions’ language strategies and what is otherwise seen in the establishment management dialogue, the Ministry will assess the need for further action at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e2052	As the Council of State rightly points out, several reports show that Norwegian as a language of publication is becoming less important year after year and that this decline is going quite rapidly. More and more both scientific work, texts and research can only be found in English. When we know that most students in Norway are also going to work here after finishing education, there is reason to ask what the English version of language and curriculum do with the relevance of Norwegian higher education. From this point of view, how will the Council of State prevent the decline of Norwegian professional languages, for example, from being weakened? the possibilities of Norwegian health workers, the possibilities of kindergarten teachers and the ability of building engineers to put scientific knowledge to work?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e2059	The president was a little quick, because I wasn't able to say my answer completely, but I'm getting a reason now. The government is under the responsibility of universities for Norwegian languages and also for developing them. The government has, among other things: helped to strengthen Norwegian languages as a subject language through a mechanism for Norwegian-language research journals in humanities and social sciences. For the period 2018-2020, support has been granted for 25 high-quality research journals. I have a continuous cooperation with the Minister of Culture to see Norwegian professional languages in the context of the other language policy. I mean one of the important tasks that universities and our colleges have is to enable their students to do their job in a good way when they're done, and it includes being able to talk to patients, as the representative uses as an example.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e2066	Does the Council of State need a little extra time?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e2071	The time of the council showed that she had 40 seconds left.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e2076	So the council can get a little bit more time now, if it wants to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e2081	No, I'm fine.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e2086	My question follows up what the Council of State was about, it goes out a little bit wider. Internationalisation is a prerequisite for quality in both research and higher education. However, internationalisation needs to be balanced against other considerations. We cannot allow academia in its heels, after publishing internationally, to forget that the institutions and universities have a responsibility to build and develop the society in which we live, and that they have a special responsibility to manage Norwegian as a professional language, and also to develop, find new concepts and lead the language forward. What will the Council of State do to enable the institutions to manage that responsibility, thus preventing an undesirable and perhaps irreversible negative development of Norwegian professional languages?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e2093	Our universities and our colleges have to do two things at once. They have to be international, they have to go after getting good trade unions, like the best in the world. In many cases it will also require the use of English as a language. They have to, but they also have to take the responsibility they have to work on developing Norwegian language further. I think we should be able to demand from our universities that they be able to do both things at once. I'm concerned about university autonomy, I'm concerned about trust. I believe that the Workers' Party, when the question is like this, shows that trust is a little secret if you don't give them a chance to sort it out yourself first. If I'm going to go into detail and control how much is going to be Norwegian, how they're going to work to achieve those goals, I don't mean we're giving universities that trust and autonomy that I think they need. And then we'll get back if they can't do both jobs at once.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e2101	Then the ordinary question time has ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-03-06.ana.ud55e2115	There is no record available. Thus, today's maps are processed. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
