ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e28	A number of permit applications are available: from the representative of Ove Trellevik on leave from 5 April to 11 April, from the representative of Åsmund Aukrust on leave from 7 April to 11 April and from the representative of Marit Arnstad on leave from 9 April to 11 April – all to take part in the 140th session of the Interparliamentary Union in Doha, Qatar by Knut Arild Hareide and Marianne Marthinsen on leave of 9 and 10 April – both for participation in the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund Parliamentary Conference in Washington from representatives Lise Christoffersen and Petter Eide on leave from 9 April to 11 April and from the representative Morten Wold on leave on 9 and 10 April – all for participation in the spring session of the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly in Strasbourg These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of Akershus, Mani Hussaini, there is an application for an exemption from meeting in Stortinget under the leave of Mr Åsmund Aukrust for parental leave. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the period of leave as follows: For Akershus County: Elisabeth Fanghol 9-11. April For Buskerud County: Tone Heimdal Brataas 9 and 10 April and Anne Sandum 9–11. April For Hordaland County: Sigurd Hille 9-11. April and Toril Selsvold Nyborg April 9 and 10. For Oslo: Zaineb Al-Samarai 9 and 10 April and Olivia Corso Salles 9 and 11 April For Nord-Trøndelag: Bjørn Arild Gram 9–11. April
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e123	The representative, Siv Mossleth, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e128	On behalf of Sandra Borch, Ole André Myhrvold and myself, I would like to make a proposal to preserve the avians and the special coastal culture of the traditional egg and downpour.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e133	The representative, Kjersti Toppe, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e138	I would like, on behalf of Nils T. Bjørke, Per Olaf Lundtägen, Marit Knutsdatter Strand and myself, to make proposals on openness on public health priorities and to conclude the practice of secrecy of the State Medicines Agency’s decision-making basis and dietary/benefit assessments of new medicinal products.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e143	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e159	On Monday the Stortinge received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State Torbjørn Røe Isaksen, Frank Bakke-Jensen and Dag-Inge Ulstein will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Anniken Huitfeldt.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e168	It's always exciting who I'm going to ask. At least it won't be the Minister of Industry. He will be here for the first time in the Question Time, the Minister for Development. And we would like to welcome him here, because it is important to have good cooperation with the Great Britain on development policy. Unfortunately, it has become an international trend to attack women’s right to control their own bodies. A recurring attack is the well-known global gag rule. Last week we met with the alarming news that the Trump administration has once again expanded it. In the driver's seat, we saw the U.S. Secretary of State, who said that he would have fun with what he calls the global abortion industry. This means that every organisation that works with some kind of cooperation with organisations that are involved in abortion guidance – that is, cooperation! – also gets hit. They are reduced immediately and cut it. We know that this rule affects women's right to abortion in vulnerable war zones and in refugee camps. But not only that: it also affects the work of prevention organisations, the treatment of pregnant women, those who live with HIV, the work against tuberculosis and malaria, and mobile health centres for mothers and their children — if the organisation also cooperates with those who are involved in abortion counselling. My question to the Council of State is: why has he not spoken about the changes in the 'global gag rule', and what does he think about these changes?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e177	Thank you for your welcome. It's always fun to get it when you're in new places. The government's policy became very clear in connection with that introduction last autumn. It just showed how we went in and compensated for the contractions that were a consequence of the policy that was pursued. Today it is presented – I think it's just a few minutes since it was published – what are our means of assistance from last year, and which fields were prioritised. There is a recent evidence that the SRHR area is one of the areas with the largest increase last year. The government has thus increased support for sexual and reproductive health and rights, in line with both the development message and the action plans available for women's rights and equality. There is a policy that is firm on the part of the government and that we will also follow up on in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e184	I think I just have to repeat my question. This is – as the Council of State explained – well-known. We have wanted to compensate even more, because it is not enough to compensate for all the offers that are being made. Young people’s health stations in Mozambique are closed due to ‘the global gag rule’. My question is, what does the Council of State think about the global gag rule, and why has he not expressed his opinion on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e189	There have been several occasions when we have both expressed ourselves and communicated around what has been the government's policy, also from the state council that stands here. I believe that some of the important work we have done on education, sex education and other parts of the rights that are there has been important to us in meeting the authorities out there. We also see it again in the priorities that are being done here with us. The policy pursued by the government is firm, and it will also lead the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e196	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Marianne Marthinsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e201	I would also like to warmly welcome the Minister of Development to the Storting, but I have to say that I am not completely reassured by the answers we get to the initial questions here, because what we are looking for is the answer to where the Minister of Development's voice is when women's rights and sexual and reproductive rights are attacked as fundamentally as we have seen lately, and especially with this very dramatic extension of the 'global gag rule'. This will affect all activities of relief organisations receiving the very least support from federal authorities in the United States, including projects funded by other funds, such as: from private donors. It is not just about reproductive rights, it is also about the fight against HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, malaria, etc. So then we try again: can the Council of States clearly condemn the 'global gag rule' and then, in particular, the last extension of it?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e210	It is true that the government has worked very widely and hard to promote equality and women's rights in many of the areas mentioned here. There has also been pressure on international commitments about this. It has been important for the government, for example. on the She Decides initiative which has been supported by Norway from the very beginning and which has now taken over the role of the Norwegian President, Minister for Culture and Gender Equality, Trine Skei Grande. We are going to continue the important work on women's rights and on promoting equality, and it will also be one of the most important things I do in aid and development policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e217	Marianne Marthinsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e222	So we don't get any clear condemnation here. That is not the budgetary priorities for the current year we are asking for, because we are fully aware of them. This rule of the global gag rule is little different from a symbol marking that Republican presidents routinely make every time they take up the office, and they do it enough to satisfy their own conservative voters. It's at least easier to do it this way than attack the rights of American women. What we can say is that this isn't about actually wanting to reduce the number of abortions in the world. This is a rule that has been operational before, it has been examined before the consequences of it, and the paradox is that when access to reproductive rights, prevention and information on family planning disappear, abortions. There is good evidence of this. So can the Council of State at least acknowledge that this 'global gag rule' is not about getting fewer abortions?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e232	I think the best answer that was given, and that was the visible effect of it, was that the government went in and supported, compensated with it, and was a clear supporter in the important work going on, and strengthened it. Although it is not the budget that will govern, it is where it is shown very clearly. And again, there was just a result today that shows that there is an area that has been strengthened, and an area that is important to the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e237	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e242	My question goes to the Minister of Defence. In a meeting between the Ministry of Defence, trustees in the Defence and politicians in Andøy in the summer of 2018, the costs of MPA on Evenes were estimated at 1,083 billion. kr. Seinhausten 2018 Ingvild Melvær Hanssen, head of the Ministry of Finance, said that the project around MPA at Evenes was about 1.4 billion. kr. In the investment proposition of the Storting, the government is now asking for a billion dollars. kr for the establishment of MPA on Evenes. Can the State Council guarantee that there will be no additional increase in the costs associated with the establishment of MPA on Evenes?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e251	The work of building Evenes to a QRA base, i.e. a fighter base, and a MPA base for the surveillance planes are on track according to the decisions made in Stortinget. It's cost estimates that go on the MPA part, and cost estimates that go on with the fighter planes, and then it's part of the cost that will be common to them, because we also want to build a base. We have an estimate with an uncertainty calculation, so we've said that we can get to a total of about 4.34 billion. NOK – then we think about both projects. The project has now come to such an extent that the State Regulatory Plan is in the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation. It will set more precise requirements for noise, emissions and the compensatory measures to be taken in this project. We have no indications so far that we're going to blow up the boundaries we've set for the MPA and QRA projects on Evenes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e262	I thank you for your answer. When this matter was handled, the Labour Party and the government went in for a new MPA base on Evenes, while the Center Party and several others went in to keep a split solution between Andeya and Evenes. The government can make good the difference between the option for which the government and the Labour Party have entered into on Evenes, and a split solution to the seventh and final outcome of this project – when the costs of setting up MPA on the Evenings seem to increase by 400 million. kr in the quarter?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e269	When the option to go for one solution with MPA and QRA on Evenes was made, there were many computations that depended on it. One of these calculations was that it's 200 million. kr cheaper in the year to operate one base versus two bases. In retrospect, there has been a need for air protection on that base. This means that the investment costs and operating costs on a single basis will make the calculation even better. It will be cheaper and give greater savings to operate one base versus two bases – when we now see that we must have air protection on Andeya. The calculations we've provided over the period are within the uncertainty framework we've been working on. As knowledge progresses, costs will also become more clear, but within the uncertainty frameworks set for the projects, we are still on a safe footing.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e276	It opens for follow-up questions – first Liv Signe Navarsette.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e281	I thank you for the answer, but I am very doubtful whether it is covering, because in KS1 it was also advised that one should look for alternative airstations for the phase-in of P8, and there are many costs that we simply do not know yet. The Council of State states that the state regulatory plan is now in the Ministry of Local Government. It's about emissions, where Avinor has asked a lot of questions about whether one at all can handle the increased amount of emissions that one can get with the big activity, and it's about a lot of other questions. Will the State Council follow the advice of KS1 to look for alternative air stations, and is Andøya a current air station in this way?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e288	When KS1 arrived, it was clear that we were within the calculations that had been made. If we are to follow the reasoning of Mr Navarsete's representative, we must put all the figures in an early phase of the project as a fascination figure, but they are not. When the state invests, we say we put a sum, and then we have an uncertainty factor around it -- it could be P50 or P85, depending on the size of the frame. I say that when there is more knowledge – and this applies to all state investment projects – to the project, you get closer and closer to the truth about what it will cost. This may lead to increased costs. It's done here, but we're within the uncertainty framework, the calculation framework, we let when we went into this project. There is nothing in the figures that has now emerged that suggests that the decision has not been made on the basis of correct figures, correct knowledge. It'll be cheaper to operate one base than to operate two, so KS1 gave us security of the decisions we've made, not more uncertainty.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e295	Live Signe Navarsete – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e300	Thanks for the answer. There is a lot of uncertainty about the cost still, as I said. I didn't think it was reassuring what the Council of State said. Avinor is responsible for civil aviation at Evenes. We asked the Minister for Transport about the extra cost of having the MPA base there. He couldn't give us an answer to that. Avinor is frustrated that they do not have important operational issues related to their tasks, not least how to allocate the tasks between the Defence and Avinor. I'm talking about a lot of expenses here. My question is: is the agreement with Avinor now in port, and how much does the defense have to bear of the investments Avinor has to make at Evenes due to the move of the MPA base from Andes?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e312	This is a very good question, and it gives me the opportunity to clean it up a little bit. The state regulatory plan, now in the Ministry of Local Affairs, will set limits on noise, emissions and activities at Evenes. It will provide the basis for a cooperation agreement between Defence Building and Avinor, which may again allocate costs according to the activity to be carried out there. This is a completely normal procedure. It is quite alarming that the Center Party believes we should jump in front of a regulation plan and write an agreement with Avinor on cost allocation. No, we want to know about the noise and protection requirements, and we want to know about the emission requirements, we want to know about the requirements of the activity that's going to be there. It will be regulated in the regulatory plan currently in the Ministry of Local Affairs. Then we add knowledge to the matter. Avinor and the Defense can sit down and agree on a cooperation agreement at Evene Airport, which has been a prerequisite all along.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e321	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e326	My question goes to Minister of Industry Røe Isaksen. Climate crisis is human beings' desperate challenge. The demonstration outside here, where 40,000 elephants went to a climate strike – many of them may be here and follow this question hour today – is also a testimony to the seriousness of the situation. Over the course of eleven years, we're going to halve Norway's emissions. At the same time, we are going to create hundreds of thousands of new green jobs in industry and industry, which are going to take on the role that petroleum has today, and we have to do it while reducing the differences in society. In other words, we need a new green deal, a plan for how to get out of the situation we are today, as we do in the area of society where we have major challenges – for example. we have a national transport plan, we have a defence plan and so on. It's the same way we've solved it in the past when we've faced a deep crisis, in the middle wartime, as we did after the war, and as we planned when the first oil was found – that is, the state is actively going to work. This is, of course, a challenge that is really food for an offensive Minister of Industry. We need a Minister of Industry who takes this seriously. But in a press release from the government, the Council of State signals what is his most important matter as Minister of Industry. It's a review of the instrumentation. He wants to ‘be better at cutting out schemes that do not work and prioritize what works’. And further, ‘We do not yet know what changes will come out of this review...’. Not in one word in this warning from the Council of State does he say anything about the great crisis we are facing as a society. Is it so that the Council of State sits in the office and cleans up tools while the house is in fire?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e335	It is not so strange that a press release on the review of the instrument is about the review of the instrument. But since the representative – whom I must congratulate on my new position as Vice-Chairman in SV – makes a point of it: it is also important for the green shift that Norway is going through, because our tool will also support under innovation, new technologies and new green solutions. I basically agree that if we're going to do the green shift, if we're going to avoid unmanageable global warming, it requires a change in the way we produce, the way we consume. But that change needs to be combined with a good industrial policy. So I'm going to say two more things. One is what the government is doing, because this is an area where the government is offensive, also in business policy. We're spending money on research and development, we're increasing the support mechanisms to implement new environmentally friendly technologies, we're joining the international frameworks, among other things. The EU ETS, which is extremely important, means that emissions in Europe are falling, while at the same time there is a system where emissions are being taken for the most benefit, and then emission prices are increasing in the long term. At the same time, the overall picture is that CO 2 emissions are higher, cost more, while at the same time reducing the charges on things that are green and good, for example. electric cars. So that's the other thing, and that's: what do we have to do in the future? First, we have to build on the advantages we have, and we have to stop looking at, for example. Norwegian industry as just part of the problem and not part of the solution. Norwegian industry is today the most climate-friendly. They have to be even more climate friendly. That's what we're working on working out a roadmap for along with the industry. In short, I agree that we should strengthen the green policy. If we need a new, green deal, I dare not say – then I have to check with the Language Council first.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e349	It's not so important to me if the Council of State is concerned with a green 'new deal', to call it that, but that we need a plan. It's as simple as that. Here we are facing a huge challenge for society as a whole, and then the government does not have a plan. There is no plan. I find it interesting that the Council of State is producing industry, that we must invest in Norwegian industry. Yes, we in SV are quite a few. Where public procurement plays a very decisive role. What is public action when we, for example, do? Should we buy steel, or when we are going to buy cement? An overall opposition has for a long time pointed out the paradox that public procurement is a priority price, while at the same time we have strict environmental requirements for industrial production. We have Mo steel that's environmentally friendly, and we have cement production at Brevik that's emission-free, but when the public acts, one doesn't prioritize it, one prioritizes the price. Why is there such a resistance to bet on Norwegian, green industry as government is in public procurement?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e356	We are about to make a big announcement about public acquisitions. It's going to give the Storting ample time to deal with it, but I can already tell you that maybe the most important point of the big message is that we need more innovative acquisitions and more green acquisitions, that we need to spend the 500 billion. kr that the public – it includes other municipalities – buys for this year, to also drive new technology, innovative solutions. Often, there will be green innovative solutions. The representative Fylkesnes is very concerned that there should be one plan. Then I realize the point is that there should be one plan for everything. We have a plan, and that's reducing greenhouse gas emissions, that's achieving the targets we set by 2030. Then we make plans for each sector. In my area, a few years ago, we delivered an industrial message that was just about how the industry is going to become greener. Now we're working a lot on green shipping to make it greener. The same applies to transport and agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e363	It opens for follow-up questions – first Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e368	We also have other plans. We have the state budget. It's the governing framework for what the government's work is on this. Nor do we see any sign that a person is taking this crisis seriously. It is good that a person wants to do something about public procurement. We have proposed this for many years without the government supporting our proposals. But when we come to the state budget, we see the paradox. A priority is that it is more profitable to invest in petroleum, a priority is that it is more profitable to invest in property, a priority is that it is more profitable to invest in finance, while in fact there are new green industries and new green industries that we should invest in. In an interpellation debate held in the fall by the Council of State and signatories, the Council of State agreed that it was right, as the interpellant said, ‘that some tax rules have contributed to making investment in property more advantageous’. How can one live with a situation where the big money in society goes to things that are not part of the solution, while at the same time being underinvested in new industries and industries?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e375	To take some of the premises first, one of the things you find in the state budget is, among other things, Enova has been strengthened by 1.3 billion since 2013. kr. The Eco-Technology Scheme has been strengthened. These are the actual, concrete schemes that contribute to green shifting, new green technology. That's the one. The second is that the government and SV disagree on the way forward for the petroleum sector. I want to remind you of one thing, and that is that very much of the competence, capital and knowledge that is also working today to develop the green solutions, is closely related to the oil and gas industries. It's not like the shipyards that develop new, green zero-emission ships have nothing to do with oil and gas – rather the opposite, they're connected. Through this government, we have both made it better to be the Norwegian local owner because we are for Norwegian local ownership, and we have made it a little less favourable to invest in property. SV's answer is that it will be a little less favourable to own anything for Norwegian owners, while non-resident companies and owners will still get it well.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e382	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e387	It's very nice to bring forward the wealth tax cuts that the government has made. There is a kind of flag in this government's feeding effort. We've been looking with lights and magnifying lights, we've been looking under the bed and under the table, and we haven't been able to find a single place where cutting to the richest in Norwegian society has actually led to new nutrition and industry. Nor does the government itself have the power to do so, so the problem with this government's industrial policy is that they do not have an industrial policy. It's a different policy – it's primarily what it is. It is interesting to produce the petroleum industry. Here I quote Prime Minister Erna Solberg, who says: ‘The petrol industry will no longer be the engine of our economic growth. New jobs must be replaced by those which disappear as a result of reduced oil and gas activity.» Then by the following paradox, Mr. President – I'm sorry, President – we have a government that simply realizes that we can't have it as an engine anymore, and then there's no plan for what to be the new engines in the Norwegian economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e400	If you want to look at the effects of reducing the strange tax on Norwegian local owners, I don't think SV should look under its own bed or under its own table. Then I think you should go around and talk to the business community and the businesses themselves, take a trip to the West and talk to small, local family-run businesses that have been working for generations, built up, and ask what they're busy with. They are engaged in competence, they are engaged in vocational training, they are involved in infrastructure, and they are concerned that Norwegian local owners should not be discriminated against – special tax on them. One of the major projects for the government is to convert Norway. We have to move away from oil and gas as the biggest driving force in the Norwegian economy, but it is going to take time. The plan for what we're going to live on, we'll hardly find it in the department offices or in the Stortinget. It is found by investing in good framework conditions for business, research and development, infrastructure and good tax and tax conditions that prevent job relocation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e407	Mr. Fylkesnes – to follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e412	Thank you, Madam President. I think the biggest problem this government is facing is that on the one hand they say in words that we need a transition into the Norwegian economy, and then they have no plan for how to do it. On the other hand, they have a huge investment, which is a wealth tax to the richest, where they can't argue for it in any way as an industrial policy. And the only thing we're left with is that it actually increases the difference. It's a policy for owners, and one can't see it again in new industries and industries. Then we are left in a situation of paralysis at a time when the greatest challenge facing mankind has been, with 40,000 elephants fighting outside here and demanding answers, and then the government has no answers. The interesting thing here is that the food budget of SV, the twists to SV in the state budget, is much larger than the government itself has proposed. There is no sign that one should go from one time to another. Then the question is finally, Mr. Councillor — Madam President, will there, at some point, come a larger, superior plan for Norway to get out of the situation we are in now? [[(muttering in the hall):]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e421	In fact, gender identities are more fluid than before, but I am still «Mr. State Council». It also goes well with only ‘State Council’ or ‘President’. The point is that all of these tools that we use – and we have a full toolbox, and we have filled in the toolbox since 2013 – we use because the Norwegian economy is going to change. A crucial part of it is that we have to have a new greener economy with other ways of producing, other ways of consuming, end linear consumption – first buy, then use, then throw – and switch to a circular economy. All this is working on – powerful. Do we have to do even more? Yes. Then it's tempting to be a little bit polemic back, because the challenge for the representative of Knag Fylkesnes is that he believes that a red business policy will give green jobs. However, a red industrial policy, with lower competition conditions and higher taxes, downgrades all business needs to grow and invest, and will provide fewer jobs. It'll give you red numbers, not green jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e430	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e435	It's directly wrong. We have e.g. proposed strengthening the depreciation rules for industry. It's a system that's been very popular in the industry, a $1.7 billion bet. kr, which we carry forward in our budgets, but which this government has cut and removed altogether, and has also given attention to the wealth tax to the richest – which we cannot find any kind of impact in industrial policy. So the question is, what leads to more competitiveness? Norwegian industry wears, only in relation to our neighbouring countries, in competing for good framework conditions. Depreciation schemes in our neighbouring countries are much better. The country is much more interested in taking risks with industry, just to build industry. And if we're going to be able to get out of the situation we're in today, so that we get built new industry, we have to have framework conditions on the other hand that are significantly better than today. Why has the government simply cut off these industrial systems in such a situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e442	I agree that the depreciation rules for business are important. However, it is not the case that the framework conditions for neither the business sector nor the new green jobs are determined by the depreciation rules. Research and innovation have doubled since 2013 – it is important. 75 pst. increase in the transport budget is incredibly important. A strong commitment to vocational training is important. Reductions in taxes and charges are important. Predictable framework conditions, e.g. for CO 2 compensation, in order to ensure that we do not get carbon leakage — that is, jobs are laid down in Norway, and then they occur elsewhere, with higher emissions — is incredibly important for Norwegian industry and for Norwegian business. Founder policy and start-up policy are important – not just that we have plans for it, but that we have an instrument that supports it. And creating new funds to provide early-stage capital is important. It's all business policy, but it's also green business policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e452	Nils Kristen Sandtrøen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e457	Here it has to be followed up. - What do the numbers show? In Sweden, the level of initial investment in industry is the same as it was just before the financial crisis last year. In Norway, we are still significantly behind us. We have a Minister of Industry who is good at talking a lot about little. I just want to take an example: the forest industry. Is there really any country in the world today that has been better equipped to travel a large-scale forest industry? We have access to the raw material. We have access to clean power. We have good research environments that are ready with lots of ideas. We have had favourable interest rates in recent years and a dollar price for industry, and geographically we are ideally located than both Sweden and Finland. With that picture – why do we see so little investment when the potential is so great?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e464	Firstly, it is quite right that investments in the Norwegian mainland industry are not up where they were before the financial crisis. It's not employment either. But if we look at the figures, it is very clear that there are larger investments, increasing investment, optimism – and just to take an example: a heavy giant that Hydro has invested heavily and heavily in industrial production in Norway, in aluminium, using Norwegian raw materials, Norwegian highly skilled skilled labour and exporting in an incredibly competitive market all over the world. With regard to the Norwegian forest industry, it is probably historical that just because oil and gas became such a large part of our economy, the forest industry grew more industrially in both Sweden and Finland. They made a different bet. One of the most important factors for growth in industry is both framework conditions, infrastructure, research — yes [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e471	Nils Kristen Sandtrøen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e477	We must address the specific problems. Why does the government spend a lot of time giving a clear explanation to Saugbrugs in Halden in the forest industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e482	As far as I remember, there are issues related to electricity charging and ESA notification.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e487	Nils Kristen Sandtrøen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e492	The CO 2 compensation scheme is what I am specifically asking about, and what Saugbruks is asking about.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e500	Yes, the CO 2 compensation scheme, but...
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e508	It is still the President who directs the word. The sand trough is finished with its question, and then the councillor Røe Isaksen will get the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e513	Thank you for giving me the little clarification question. The CO 2 compensation scheme is linked to the EU CO 2 compensation scheme, which the EU has now said will be revised. What the government has said very clearly is that predictability of the CO 2 compensation scheme is crucial – not only for forestry and the woodworking industry, but for all Norwegian industry. Our objective in the EU process is to ensure as predictable and good a CO 2 compensation system for industry as possible. But that uncertainty is created in the EU by the fact that there is now a process to look at legislation – we can participate, have an active European policy, go in and influence and have clear positions in it, but we cannot, of course, foreshadow or short-term a process that we are only part of and do not control.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e532	Åsmund Aukrust – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e537	The Prime Minister has said in a defense of the climate minister's lack of success that it is tougher to stand up to the climate in a government where people are not so concerned about it. I hope it's not the Minister of Industry she thinks, because the Minister of Industry has a primary responsibility to manage the policy and the green transition that Norway is going to undergo. He has to be measured, like the other state councils, on whether we achieve our objectives in climate policy. Then we need a Minister of Industry who shows leadership and direction, and who gets people and businesses involved in the big change. My very specific question to the Minister of Industry is whether he can explain what is Norway's climate target for 2020, and what is the status when the calendar shows April 2019.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e542	It's not my responsibility to set climate targets, but as far as I remember, it was a reduction compared to 1990 – and I take this from my memory – at 40 pst. It's possible it's wrong. We haven't achieved that. It's going to be incredibly challenging to reach it by 2020, and I think the Storting is also aware of that. That is why Stortinget has set new goals towards 2030. So to what's my responsibility, because it's not to set these goals, but it's to make sure that Norwegian private business is equipped to achieve these goals. We have a good starting point there, because we already have e.g. The world's purest industry because we have hydropower. At the same time, we are running on with new enhanced instruments for climate technologies and green transformation. We are about to begin and are in the start-up phase of a large carbon capture and storage project, which can also become an important international project to help bring down climate change emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e549	Åsmund Aukrust – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e555	It was very revealing. The Minister of Industry says: This is not my responsibility. Well, the climate targets are the responsibility of the entire government, the whole government has to achieve our goals. If the Minister of Industry is not even aware of Norway's objectives, it is not nice that we do not achieve the objectives that we have. If we go out the street here and ask what people think is Norway's climate goal, I think very many people wouldn't have known the answer. I'm not surprised when you have a Minister of Industry who doesn't take hold of them and tell them what to be. Now we heard that the reason we've set new targets is that we haven't achieved our 2020 targets. So then my question to the Minister of Industry is: Can he say what is Norway's climate target for 2030?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e564	What I said was not that we do not reach the climate targets for 2020. What I said is that it's going to be very hard to get it done. We're going to halve greenhouse gas emissions by 2030. The goal in the long term is to be carbon neutral by 2050, that we're essentially going to have zero emissions. But, as I said, it's like my government job is to ensure that the tools are there to ensure that Norwegian industry and Norwegian private businesses are able to cope with this conversion. Then it's not like there's a lack of a plan, it's like we're doing this with the industry now. We're going to get to work on the Green Coastal Navigation Program. Other departments work with the agricultural sector to reduce agricultural emissions. We have worked systematically in the transport sector where emissions have also fallen. And then it's important to bear in mind here that there is an important difference between the quota and non-quota sectors. It is primarily in the non-quota sector that we have the biggest and most important contributions from the political side.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e569	Siv Mossleth - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e574	The photosynthesis must be an important factor in the green deal. Pasturage and active forestry are a major part of the solution of climate policy, and then we cannot uncritically protect 10 pst. of the forest. Nordland is the country's largest forest traveler, and there is a lot of forest growing up. Here's carbon capture and green workplaces. Uncertainty is married to business, said the Minister of Industry on the radio a while ago. How, then, can the government, through bonding and forest protection, create so much uncertainty for Arbor, the only small wood industry in North Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e581	The raw material situation of the Norwegian woodworking industry may sometimes be challenging, but the feedback from the Norwegian woodworking industry is also that raw materials are available, but the biggest problem is getting them from local teams. Now it is that the protection policy – which is not within my direct remit – is associated with much less noise, much less noise, much less conflict in general than it was a few years ago. The Norwegian wood processing industry has also had an incredibly strong, important and large conversion and, after all, has a great potential to grow more, not least in the context of new technologies, which use the raw materials that are in wood, but also within, for example, construction.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e588	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e593	My question goes to the Minister of Defence. The government has now implemented a competitive outsourcing of all the cleanness of its own buildings. This was carried out despite warnings from a wide range of teams, including from the trade union movement and from the loyal employees. Around 60 cleaners have reserved to be transferred to private operators and were cancelled from their job. About 200 cleaners were transferred to the private operator. The remainder ended in the process in the course of the process. This privatisation has resulted in lower working conditions, higher appeal rates and high losses of pension entitlements for some of the employees. For several of the cleaners, the loss in pension entitlements was estimated at 1.3 million. kr. Both the cleaners of the ISS and the defence staff have expressed great dissatisfaction with the new organisation. This is a dissatisfaction documented by the comprehensive Fafo report ‘When the job is put to tender — Outsourcing cleankeeping in Defence’, which was presented in November 2018. Here it was clarified that the dissatisfaction was due not least to the manoeuvring. Fewer employees in the private ISS generate higher earnings, but cleaners get far too high professional demands, and the quality of the cleaning team decreases. Then the question is, is the Council of State responsible for this satisfaction with the result of this privatisation, and can he explain to the Stortinget the real gain that this has created?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e602	Outsourcing, or purchasing services, may have several advantages in itself. One is the economic aspect, whether what you use on a service is right, measured against what others can deliver it for. The second is that you get a quality service. One can describe the quality of a service, how it is to be performed, and one can expect and demand that it be carried out in that way. The third important thing is that such processes set the right requirements – according to employees, according to the use of technology, according to environmental requirements, according to the quality of such a service. It is one of the advantages of offering something and purchasing services. You can also measure the service you provide in your own organization, against what you get in. I've been aware of the noise. There were significant savings in that project – I don't remember the sum now – on putting it out, measured against what it cost to have it in your own house. Then I'm going to go to the next part. Yes, there have been significant problems with the service to be provided by the ISS, both in terms of quality and in terms of the working environment and how the employees feel they have been received there. It has been taken care of by Defence Building. You put a lot of effort into that to get it fixed. I believe that for the public, as responsible for the community's money, it is becoming a good buyer a really good tool, and I believe that we have a little to go about setting requirements for the services – to the supplier just in the case of clean-up in the Defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e611	It's a little unclear to me, actually, what the Council of State means, in answer to my question. I must honestly say that after I have heard what he is saying. He admits that there have been significant problems. There were problems that they were clearly warned against before they started this. And the report that has been presented demonstrates that this way of organizing it, does not work properly. When we talk about economic gains, it is simply that the employees have been paid less and the pension conditions are lower. Of course, the state should not act like that at all. The concrete follow-up in the extension of this is that we now see that the Ministry of Defence itself has gone away from the ISS and went back to the original arrangement. Then the question becomes, of course, isn't it time for the Council of State to wind up this whole arrangement, so that we can get some peace around this, and that you can actually get real clean in Defense, as we had for generations before doing this ideological grip.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e622	No – and that is what I started with. There are many good reasons why public spending resources and energy on becoming a good buyer – simply because when we manage the community’s money, it may be very wise to have a mechanism that asks for quality, that demands the environment, that demands the climate, and that demands the organisation of it. You also get to measure your own activity against what others can deliver. This is an example of when you don't get what you expect, you can grab hold of it and do something about it. It's not always that easy if you keep saying that this is the government itself. There are many examples around that a purchasing model makes it possible, among other things. can set clearer environmental requirements, clearer requirements for new technologies, clearer requirements for a greener line in the process. I think that's a good thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e629	There will be follow-up questions – first Martin Kolberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e635	I would like to reject the Council of State's understanding that there is no room for demands on their own employees. It must be obvious to everyone that there is an argument that does not bear. Then I ask more specifically: why has the Ministry of Defence abandoned this arrangement when the Minister of Defence himself is standing here and saying that this is such a good arrangement? In his own offices, you could no longer have an ISS. Why has this system been abandoned in the Ministry of Defence when it is considered ideologically that this is so good?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e640	Kolberg invites me here for two debates. He asked about the ideological view of it. My ideological view is that the public as a good buyer can make clear demands on the quality of a service, and if you have the service in your own house, you can measure quality by what you do yourself, is correct, that it keeps the quality you want, or that it is possible to get better quality by being a good buyer. That's what I described in the introduction to the two questions for me. Then it is quite clear that the service provided by the ISS is not good enough, and then the defence that buys must take hold. It's okay, but it doesn't mean everything's going on in public hands, and we're not going to be able to use a purchasing mechanism to ensure that we use new technology, do things in new ways, and have innovative services in public as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e647	Martin Kolberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e652	And then it was with the Department of Defense. Why has the Ministry of Defense gone away from this when you stand here and argue like you do? These are your own offices, your own building. Is it possible to get a response to this in the storeroom?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e657	The President must remind the representative – as he knows, of course – that he is to address the Council of State as the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e662	Excuse me, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e667	It is because you were not satisfied with the service that was delivered. And then my answer is two-part. On the one hand, I say that being dogmatic and saying that the public should deliver all its services itself, that it is the very best, is an entrance to the debate in which I disagree with the representative of Kolberg. I believe that the public as a good buyer can make good demands on behalf of the employees, can make good demands on behalf of the climate, can make good demands on behalf of innovation. Earlier today, we had a discussion about business policy and the public purchasing. Then we would make demands on climate and innovation. I think that's very good, and that's the effect you've been trying to get here. Then you don't always succeed. When you are not satisfied with what is delivered by an external supplier, you can cancel the contract because they have not been able to deliver what they were supposed to deliver. I think that's a positive thing. Then we ensure that the service given to the public becomes as good as it should be.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e676	Leif Audun Sande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e681	I think it's scary that the Council of State is standing here and saying that there's an ideological view that makes this come out as it does. It is quite obvious that there is not one requirement that the Council of States can set to the ISS, which the Council of States cannot set to itself. He can set all the same requirements for his own operation as he can set for ISS operations. We know that where a person has his or her own additions that do the job, there is better well-being, better loyalty and better pension rights, and people like it a lot better. These are values that are toned down purely ideologically – as far as I can understand. While other large companies, such as Equinor, are able to run the entire base with their own added reindeer, the Council of State is unable to do so in Defense. What are the requirements of the ISS that the State Council could not impose on itself?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e688	The ideological was the representative of Kolberg who came in, he stamped my position as purely ideological. He then invited two different debates, one on how to finance the type of services to be provided by the public. I believe that using a purchasing regime means getting more operators. You can get more creativity and more innovation, you can make tougher demands, and you get to measure the service delivered in your own house, towards something that can be delivered from the outside. I think that's a good thing. The ISS did not fulfil the obligations under the contract. Then we had to go away from it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e695	Leif Audun Sande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e701	What we're told is that in the Department of Defence, they have a few ways to get back in, for example. because one asked so relaxed demands for the ISS that one risked getting Russian spies who went in the halls and the sink. They even had to be followed by security guards. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e706	If the safety assessment was part of the layout in the department, I'm actually not sure. What I'm sure is that the ISS could not meet the requirements that were imposed, so you had to do it in your own way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e711	Live Signe Navarsete – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e716	I think we can safely conclude that there was no complaint that made a change in the internal purification systems, it was pure ideology. There was no complaint before the ISS came in. But now it is, now it is dissatisfaction and complaint. In addition, there have been several tasks, lower wages and lost pension income. Today, there is also a requirement that cleaning workers be safe to wash in the protected area of the Storting. I want to follow it a little bit with the certainty – as the previous questioner also raised – because it has led to the addition of the Defense Footsteps to the Reinkeepers. I have myself spoken with a member of the Defence Department who spends half the working days simply following the cleaners who are going to do the job. Even they don't actually do the job well enough. The Council of State itself has said that. Does the Council of State think that this is a good use of defence resources?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e725	First I have to address the introduction to the representative. I did not say that there were complaints on the public service sinks that led to the choice of putting it into a tender regime.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e730	No, I haven't said that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e735	It was in the introduction to the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e740	It is still the President who directs the word.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e745	President! It was in the introduction to the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e750	Excuse me, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e755	There may be other safety requirements in the course of the journey. We've been through a changed security regime. It may be that there have been assessments that have altered the security regime in the department buildings along the way. What I am absolutely sure is that the requirements that have been set for ISS were not met. This meant that you had to go in and look at the contract. I believe it is a very straightforward part of a tendering regime that if you do not get what you are going to get delivered, well, you can make changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e763	Live Signe Navarsete – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e768	I just have to clear up. I didn't say the defence minister had claimed it. I just made it clear that there wasn't much complaint that made one choose to put the reindeer on offer, it was pure ideology from the then Minister of Defense who did it. The complaint has come later. After the ISS took over, the complaint came. My question was not really about the Ministry of Defence, because I don't know so much about it, but about the other departments of the Defence Department out there, where there are hundreds of ISS cleaners who are going to do a job, and where those who were going to be in the operational service have to use their working day to follow the cleaners on the protected areas. My question is again: does the Minister of Defence really think that there is a good use of the defence resources?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e775	No, I don't think that's a good use of resources. If this is the case – something I do not know about – you have not been good as a buyer, because then you have not taken the whole picture when you have created a tender document. Then you have not been measured how that service can be provided, measured against the service you have.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e780	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e785	‘There is a need for increased production of renewable resources from forests and agriculture, as well as better use of raw materials to exploit the potential of the bioeconomy.’» That is what State Council Jon Georg Dale said in 2016 when the government presented the bioeconomy strategy with the promising name ‘Known Resources — Unusual Opportunities’. On Tuesday, March 12, this year, the government presented a new strategy for forestry. Now there are venues for cooperation and dialogue, the right skills and economic instruments to give a boost to the green shift. Then why do you come up with a new strategy three years after the previous one? Well, maybe Governor Olav Breivik had in Viken Forest right when he at the Right National Meeting claimed that the trees needed investment. According to Right-Man Breivik, Finland and Sweden have invested 50 billion. kr in the bioeconomy and a technological shift over the last few years, Norway has invested only 350 million. kr – small money, to use the right-hand man Breivik’s own words. Everyone agrees that the forest is the new oil, but the government has still failed to lift the wood industry. It doesn't keep up with strategies and talk. What we need now is measures and actions that raise the ability to invest. Unfortunately, the government is contributing in the opposite direction with extensive use of forest protection, cutting funds for care, planting and forestry, and lack of investment in infrastructure such as county roads and railways. At the top comes a multi-headed and unwieldy instrument. We are now in danger of becoming a banana republic based on the export of timber – instead of building new green jobs through a technological shift and creating values in the shift from a fossil economy to a green economy. The question is: will the Minister of Industry contribute to an increased rate of investment and take initiatives to raise the level of investment that our neighbouring countries have in relation to the bioeconomy and technology shift?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e798	It is not possible for a government council to guarantee the level of investment we are going to raise, but the reason why the government has put the bioeconomy so high on the agenda is that Norwegian forest industry, Norwegian wood processing industry, is an important industry today. It is heavily invested in new products, new technologies, and it is also an important component of a green shift. I can say a little bit about the areas for which I have a direct responsibility, for example. the instrumentation. The active substance is currently too fragmented. It's too hard to figure out. It is also that we do not know well enough about the tools and instruments we have, for example. large and complex processes in the woodworking industry. That's why we have to clean up and simplify the tool. This is something that will also benefit the woodworking industry. When I meet the woodworking industry, infrastructure is always a topic. I am aware that, although the government has increased the budget since 2013, it is not that absolutely everyone gets everything they want at all times. But this government's commitment to transport, highways and infrastructure across the country has been historic and will continue. As I understand it, there has also been a greater interplay about the woodworking industry, or quite specifically: bioeconomy – where the woodworking industry is an important part of it. I look forward to coming back to Stortinget then with further information to discuss this important industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e809	I'm glad the Council of State says it's high on the agenda, but it doesn't help the investment will in the wood industry. In my county are two of the industrial locomotives on forestry: Saugbruks and Borregaard. The two companies employ about 1,000 people in total and have about 100 apprentices, and the ring-fence of the value creation for the local environment, and not least for the rest of the country, is enormous. So they spend a total of one-fifth of the Norwegians only on these two factories, and they fight in a market of fierce competition. Nevertheless, it is that Suggbruks has a challenge related to CO 2 compensation, and that is because of the abbreviation they have received, and we are now waiting for an answer. They start at $85 million. kr behind the competitors each year. There will be a failed declaration of government's promises to invest in the three industries and to increase the production of renewable resources if we do not manage to maintain and in the long run strengthen the woodworking industry in Norway. Then I'd like to ask the Minister of Industry, what is he going to fill that toolbox with? Because it's relatively empty. There are many words in it, but little tools.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e823	I fundamentally disagree that the toolbox is empty. After all, the toolbox is there for the whole of Norwegian business. The representative mentioned Borregaard as an example. The impressive thing about Borregaard and their great foresight and niche in the international market is heavy, research-driven, R & D-driven development where one uses not only the timber but all the timber and all the substances in it. They include: developed artificial vanillin, which otherwise has a lower CO 2 pressure than that of industrially produced vanillin. Our research and innovation effort is crucial for Borregaard. I agree, and have said several times, that Norwegian business needs stability in the CO 2 compensation system. It's important. But the tools we have also hit the Norwegian woodworking industry. We are also working in general on access to capital for business, which is an extremely important issue that the representative addresses.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e836	There will be follow-up questions – first Marit Knutsdatter Strand.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e841	I am pleased that the Council of State has noticed the interpellation I have promoted, and I am also pleased to discuss the bioeconomy further. At the same time, there is one point here that the Council of State simply says outright that we do not know how well the measures in the instrument are taking per day, but at the same time they claim to be doing well in the forest industry. I want to clarify this further: it was drawn out, among other things. at Meeting Point Inland by the cluster leader of the Norwegian Wood Cluster, Engebrated Dæhlin, that legislation on instruments is not sufficiently appropriate. I would simply like to ask: what initiatives will the Council of State take to simplify and improve the current instrument in concrete terms, and when will more environmental requirements, such as the incorporation of biofuels into fossil fuels, benefit Norwegian forests and Norwegian businesses?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e848	Let me – if I was upresis – rephrase or be quite clear: the tool will hit all parts of Norwegian business, and a doubling of the research and innovation effort since 2013 will thus also hit the Norwegian woodworking industry. But some of the feedback we get from the woodworking industry is also the background that we are now doing not only a piecely and divided review, but a full review of the whole tool to see if it is such that, for example, larger, more complex innovation and research projects do not fit into the booths we have. Is it that for small and medium-sized enterprises it is too difficult to find, and you want one door in instead? So I'm going to continue what I've been doing since I became Minister of Industry last year, and that's talking a lot to the Norwegian woodworking industry. I know that the Minister of Agriculture, who is responsible for Norwegian forestry and then also caught up in raw material, is also busy talking to that industry to strengthen it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e856	Per Olaf Lundtigen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e861	For the centre party, green shift means increased production and processing of renewable natural resources, and forest is an important part of it. The profitability of timber processing is miserable. In the Granavolden platform it is called under forestry: ‘In favour of an industrial policy which also benefits the Norwegian woodworking industry.’ These are two large factories, the former Norwegian Forest plants Saugbruks and Skogn. They're struggling. They're struggling with falling market, falling profitability. There is a need for a huge conversion costing billions. My question is: is the government opposed to using special measures to improve the profitability of the wood processing industry? For this, there are new framework conditions that change the situation, in order to ensure the processing of tiles in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e871	The government is not, in principle, against any particular measure. We have a number of special measures for individual industries in Norway, some of them are wise, and others are less wise. My point is that, above all, industrial policy must look at the tools that hit everyone and that are also important for the Norwegian woodworking industry. I am aware that, although the profitability of forestry itself has increased in recent years, the profitability of the wood processing industry, and in particular the rate of investment, has been challenging in recent years. We, on both my side and the Minister of Agriculture, are constantly in contact with the industry itself. We get recordings, we get questions and we get problems that we investigate and try to follow up. Otherwise and a little bit unrelated I just want to mention for the sake of order that I haven't increased the government's ambition for climate change – although maybe it's the way I think about 50 pst, it's 40 pst. By 2030, just so they say.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e878	Per Olaf Lundtigen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e883	We're talking about woodworking. For every day that goes, the Swedes move away and gain great competitive advantage. In Buskerud one factory, Splitkon, the solid wood factory has been completed. It was realised that Investinor was not a valid instrument by the state. It was Siva who came in and bisto financially, on a commercial basis. What's the big problem now is the large quantities of slips and tiles that we're talking about, and our two big factories, in addition to Borregaard, are going down slowly, but surely. Is it really the case that the Norwegian government does not want a strategic industrial policy with specific measures to address the sector’s problems – which is historically in Norwegian tradition and is the international road to go? A user-specific response to specific challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e892	Now the representative Lundtigen adds up to a larger and more principled discussion. I believe that there is reason to say that although we need a general good industrial policy, special industries have special challenges. It may in some cases be right to make their own solutions. It's not always the same thing. Representative Lundteg named Investinor. After all, the investor has been earmarked or kept by a certain proportion of its investment budget, in view of, among other things. the wood processing industry, without it having been very rewarding for that reason. I can't go into the terms of completely concrete businesses. But I can say that both the bioeconomy strategy, the tool review, what we do in research and development – all that we have also developed, and will continue to develop, with input from the woodworking industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e899	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e904	This is a very interesting round, because here we have just an industry where Norway, with its incredible renewable resources – sea, forest, soil and power – has unique opportunities to twist the economy and prioritize it. Especially when it comes to forests, possibilities are great, while development is negative. It seems that the Council of State continues to say: Yes, but we are investing in research – that it is an important initiative. There is broad political agreement that research is important, but what we are talking about here is greater framework conditions for these new investments – that a changing framework conditions will make it less profitable to invest in what we have traditionally invested in over a long period of time, which is petroleum, and on what is renewable and right to the future. What are the concrete answers? What parts of the toolbox is the Council of State going to use to really speed up the industry it represents?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e911	Just the tools I've been talking about are our most important tools, including for the woodworking industry. Moreover, in the bioeconomy strategy, the three-processing industry, for which I am responsible, is an important part. We have also taken the initiative to promote — a smaller part, but still relevant — the use of wood as building material and working with the industry to promote it and make it more known, among others. among public purchasers. The challenge for this industry is also the general framework conditions. For example, the CO 2 compensation scheme is a general challenge for the entire Norwegian industry, although some enterprises have a special challenge in that respect.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e921	We're going to go to the last main question in this oral quiz.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e926	I have a question for the Minister for Maritime Safety. We're approaching spring, and that means that the boat season is also approaching. We have a long coast, we're a boat-loving people and 900,000 have acquired a recreational boat. The size was very clear in 2016 when we called for a plan to get a zero vision, in the same way that we have succeeded with the road. For the back of this, we had 102 deaths last year, mainly related to the use of small boats. Then we're familiar with the fact that we've been asked by the State's casualty commission to conduct a new fact-finding, and as far as we've registered, it came before Christmas. Can we expect that before this season we get a proper zero vision plan for safety at sea, and not least for pleasure boats?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e934	As the representative suggests, we have notified a separate notice to the Stortinget on maritime safety. It's going to be about recreational boats, but also about maritime safety for commercial ships. I dare not promise exactly when it comes, but I can say that the work is in progress. One of the reasons it hasn't been presented before is that we just wanted to wait for the information we've been given in these days to get a better factual basis. Because if you want to take action, you also need to have good information about what the challenge is. This includes, among other things: so that very many of the drowning accidents we have come from land. There is nothing less serious for that reason, but it is still relevant. There is also reason to consider whether the rescue vest directive that came has had any effect. It is also the case that we should consider a number of new measures on the recreational boat side. And then we're going to try to balance the safety considerations, that it's going to be safe to travel on the sea, with the Norwegian tradition that the sea is open, that it's going to be for everyone, and that it's going to be nice and pleasant to be there. Of course, the two things are related.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e941	I thank you for your answer. When we left as a government, we sent out a proposal and got a lot of hearings. So then it's kind of strange that it's going to take so long in such an important area, while we're recording that more and more people are buying expensive, heavy boats, and that the number of accidents is rising. So at least red-green initiative, which received support from the rest of the Stortinget, meant that it might be in place to put in place a temporary plan under the direction of the Rescue Company before this summer if it turns out that we once again go into a boating season without having proper action. The question is whether you could imagine that, at least together with the Rescue Company, you could have a campaign to reduce accidents.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e948	The reason why the message has not arrived, I said something about it in my first answer. This is simply because we want a good factual basis and a thorough analysis — which accidents are, why do they happen, and what is the evolution over time — that is better than today. So it's like a kind of campaign that the Rescue Company can have, I'm very positive to. The rescue company has also received some funding from the state budget to make it, together with other key actors, simply because awareness-raising work is important. But then I just want to remind you – for the description of reality – that it is not that we have no rules to deal with. Rather, one of the major debates in this room was the rescue vest injunction, which is a new, great rule – controversial, controversial, debated but now in effect. After all, we must not forget to consider the measures that have actually been put in place, and not just look at the new measures that are emerging. But I agree that, for example. are more fast boats now than before, giving reason to see if we should do more.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e957	The oral question procedure is now over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e971	There will be some changes to the questionnaire, and in this context the President will refer to the electronic question list in the salap. The changes were as follows: Question 2, from the representative Ruth Grung to the Minister for Culture and Gender Equality, has been withdrawn. Question 3, from the representative Siv Mossleth to the Minister for Transport, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 8, from the representative Hans Inge Myrvold to the Minister for Health, will be raised by the representative Kjersti Toppe. Question 10, from the representative Sigbjørn Gülsvik to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Health on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who has been away. Question 12, from the representative Kristoffer Robin Haug to the Minister for Climate and Environment, has been withdrawn. Question 16, from the representative of Mona Fagerås to the Minister for Research and Higher Education, is postponed until the next Question Time when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e993	‘In these days, people receive the tax return. Tens of thousands of Norwegian workers will unfortunately receive a strong tax return because of the government's systematic cut in various commuting deductions. Why does the Council of State believe it is right that workers who have to travel a long time at work should be penalised with higher taxes and increased taxes?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e1000	Firstly, it is not right for workers to be punished. The commuter deductions are intended to cover the additional costs that a taxpayer has. They still do. So you're going to get a discount on actual, documented expenses. For commuters with cooking facilities it does not cost much more to cook in the commuting home than at home. I believe that the basis for this deduction is gone. I also meant that when we proposed changes to the 2018 budget, and I still think that is reasonable. I also stressed that this is a deduction that is difficult to control. The tax base has revealed a large amount of unjustified deduction requirements, and the deduction leads to a lot of bureaucracy. When the commuting deductions were originally adopted in 1927, the purpose was to compensate taxpayers who had stayed away from home of a more temporary nature. The Tax Committee also pointed out that it is difficult to find good reasons for maintaining a separate deduction, especially where the place of work is stable. I'm more concerned that there are jobs for people where they live. Now it's going well in Norway, and more come to work. We now have the lowest registered unemployment rate in ten years. About two out of three who demanded the deduction in 2014 were non-residents. The other group that points out is workers living in the central east. Norwegian citizens accounted for only one third of the total deduction. The question is then: why does Battle violence Vedum want to maintain a deduction that mainly goes to foreign nationals, and to cover the cost of food that they would also have had at home? Instead of highlighting some changes in tax rules with poor justification, I think it is worth raising my eye and looking at the big picture of government tax policy. So far, the government has reduced taxes and taxes by 25 billion. kr. Large groups of the population have been relieved. In total for the years we have been in government, a normal family has been reduced by approximately NOK 39 000 compared to the tax rules applicable when Battle violence Vedum himself was in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e1015	After all, the government has systematically cut off various schemes that have helped ordinary workers — those who live in a wreckage, the seafarers who have had a rent supplement, those who use their car in connection with work, and the travel allowance for very many, for example. from the area I myself live in, which commutes into Oslo, which took commuter trains today early, or where the president lives, at Eidsvoll. One who commutes from Eidsvoll to Stortinget or to another place gets NOK 5084 more in tax because of the tax changes that the Advance Party and the Right have made in government. Why does the Council of State consider them to be, for example, Are you willing to commute on the Oslo-Eidsvoll route – and it is important for the labour market that people are willing to commute – to receive NOK 5 084 more in tax, and that it has been right to absorb the purchasing power of those who need to spend a long time every day to get to work?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e1022	Firstly, it is wrong that the government has systematically cut off ordinary workers. What we have done is to clear up legislation within the tax system to free up room for action to continue to reduce the overall tax burden. This is also the case – and the representative should know the Battle of Vedum – that taxpayers who have higher additional costs than the new rates may charge off actual, documented expenditure or receive tax-free coverage from the employer for documented expenditure. So if you have high commuting costs, you can subtract it if you can prove it. I think that must be a very neat and neat system, which is not about punishing people, but about cleaning up the systems.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e1029	It's a fact that the government has increased the amount that's going to be deducted, the so-called bottom subtraction, which makes you get less if you're a long commuter. It has happened, it has been a political priority that we in the Central Party have thought is wrong. It is also a fact that the government has increased electricity charges in Norway by 36 pst. after taking over, which means that many ordinary workers experience a higher electricity bill because the government wants to withdraw purchasing power from normal families. And it's a fact that Siv Jensen, as Minister of Finance, increased fuel taxes more in one year than what happened in eight red-green years – quote Erna Solberg. So if you look at the government’s tax policy, it has systematically hit ordinary workers living in ordinary homes around Norway. Tax deductions have been cut to help ordinary workers living around Norway who make an honest effort every day. Why has it become that the party for the most – as they used to call it – has forgotten the most and has tax increases and increases that affect those who do the job, who build the country, every day?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e1036	Crazy claims don't get any more correct as multiple stroke violence Vedum repeats them. This government has reduced the total tax burden by 25 billion. kr, and a substantial part of the relief has benefited ordinary families. Ordinary families with incomes of less than 600 000 have come very well out of this, as I said in my main response, over these years – 39 000 kroner in relief. It's not true if you compare with what the red-green government did, with battle violence Vedum in the head. The aim was to increase taxes. And now we're going to simplify them. The electricity charge talks to the representative, Mr. Slagsvold Vedum. What did the red-green government do with the electricity charge? Nothing. It is this government that has reduced the electricity charge in the current year's budget. The point here is that once we've cleaned up some of the deduction schemes, it's to make the tax system simpler and more transparent. But that doesn't mean you're being punished. You get a deduction from the actual costs you have. That truth should battle violence Vedum manage to refer to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e1054	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e1068	This issue is postponed to the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e1076	I would first like to congratulate the new Minister of Justice on his work and wish him every success. My question is: ‘When I asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the United Kingdom on 10 October 2018 about the Norwegian citizen and the three-child father who has been imprisoned for 10 years in Pakistan without charge, sentence or sentence, she showed that ‘the police are responsible for search and investigation’. On September 2, 2018, the family lawyer received an e-mail from the police saying ‘We have updated information that your client is dead in Pakistan’. According to the lawyer and the three - child father's brother, they have had contact with a person who has recently been in prison with the three - child father about two months ago and who has provided specific information confirming his identity. How will the Council of State address police practices to report the death of a missing person abroad, and will the Council of State take the initiative to cooperate with the U.D. on a new effort to release the three-child hazard?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e1085	First of all, I would like to thank you for your congratulations. I hope we get a good cooperation. I would first like to say a little about what is the general practice of police in case of death and missing cases abroad. The police director has informed that cases with a missing person usually start by submitting a missing message to the local police. The local police will then call the person through the police's internal intelligence register, where international intelligence may also be requested via Interpol and the Schengen Information System. An international alert in which the missing person is requested is followed by Kripos, the national contact point for international police work. And if Kripos receives information that a missing person is supposed to be in a specific country, at the request of the local police, police authorities abroad will be asked to carry out a welfare check, that is, an investigation of how the person is doing. Kripos assists local police in matters where there is a desire for cooperation between Norwegian and foreign police authorities, and we also have a Nordic police liaison stationed in Islamabad, at the Norwegian Embassy, working on such issues. He is our bond with the Pakistani authorities when Norwegian and Nordic police ask for assistance. The local police were in this case the Oslo police district, and the case was initially followed up as a missing-case from their side, in line with what I have just described as the routines. In cases where a Norwegian citizen dies abroad, the rule is that this is first notified by a foreign authority to a Norwegian foreign station, which again alerts the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' operational centre in Oslo. Then Kripos, who again alerts the local police, will contact a local clergyman or health-care professionals or faith-holders who are in charge of the death warning to their relatives. In this case, the information on the death did not come from the Pakistani authorities, and Kripos therefore received no warning of the death either. The information provided in the case was provided to the family lawyer from the Oslo Police District in September 2018, and it was based on information from a confidential source. The police considered this source credible, and unfortunately, for reasons of vulnerability of the source, no further information can be provided on this source or on the circumstances surrounding the alert. When the general procedures for alerting deaths do not appear to have been followed in this case, it is because, after I have been informed, the information on the death did not come through the regular alert channels, but from the police's confidential source. So I don't see the whole reason why you have to change some routines, but you have to be careful about what kind of information you're going to provide. The Minister of Foreign Affairs has given his assessment in the Question Time on 10 October 2018, and it is such that the Norwegian police have no jurisdiction to initiate research abroad. [[President clubs]] [[The President clubs again.]] With the information we have, I see no reason why we should restore a new question to the U.D. on this matter... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e1110	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e1115	I thank the Council of State for the answer and for the information on how it will work. What the family has now experienced is independent of what should be the routines, but as the Council of State explained why it has deviated. But it is dramatic that the father of the children and his brother etc. is dead and as stated in the e-mail: according to up-to-date information. There is an information that has really shocked the family, and that kind of information should be sure that votes, you should be able to identify and have several ways to check before you bring it. It seems to me that no investigations or further steps have been made, as the family has not been contacted. The family cannot see that information has been sought by the police. So I'm going to ask the Council of State: in addition to briefing on facts about how the procedures should be, is he satisfied with the work that has been done? Because it seems like it's been very passive.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e1122	Obviously, it is not possible to say that you are satisfied when the result is wrong. But here it was that the police got information from something they thought was a credible source, and then you are in the dilemma of whether or not to inform further. Then the police made their assessment and chose to inform the family lawyer. And then it turned out that unfortunately this information was wrong, and there's something the police are going to take for themselves: whether to publish that kind of information. But on the other hand, it could also have been wrong if you had received information and not passed it on to the family's lawyer, and then it would have turned out in retrospect that the police had had information about a death, perhaps for a longer time, before the family got to know about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e1129	I understand how the Council of State has got the information and is dealing with it. But it seems that the police have not done anything active to obtain the information that the family has, because the family has said at several times that they have sources that the brother, or the family father, is alive. They have recently, as I referred to in the question, said – in meeting with me, together with their lawyer – that they have got safe sources, or talked to the person who has been sitting with the brother in prison recently. Last weekend I received new information about others who had experienced him alive down there. So my question to the Council of State is, when we get these sources, and it seems that the family has good points of view that this is the right identity – will the Minister of Justice, along with the U.D., take new initiatives to get on with this matter? So we're talking about a Norwegian family father from Oslo who's been sitting in Pakistan for ten years without any intention, without any charges.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e1136	I assume that the police are trying to get some more information out of the channels they have at the embassy in Islamabad. But besides, it's a little hard to assess what kind of information they're sitting on now, and what kind of information they've been looking at.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e1141	Question 5, from the representative of Kari Elisabeth Kaski to the Minister of Health, falls away, as the questioner is not present. Question 6, from the representative, Mr Moxnes, to the Minister for Health, must wait because the questioner is not present. We go to question 7.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e1153	‘At the board meeting on 27 March 2019, the board of Health More and Romesdal decided to close the Kristiansund maternity ward from the autumn and send them to Molde. Increased transport time to the maternity ward, we know, increases the risk of unfortunate events. Health Minister Höie can intervene at any time and re-apply the decision, which everyone looks to be made from the economic point of view, and not from the professional point of view. Is the closure of the food department the government's policy, and if not – will the Council of State come on the track as soon as possible and reverse the decision of the executive board?»
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e1160	I do not agree with the premise for the question. The food departments in Kristiansund and Molde have for many years had major difficulties with recruitment and stability in the medical and midwifery groups. This is apparent from the development plan. It also appears that, at times, it has been difficult to meet the quality requirements of a safe supply of food by the supervisor. The quality figures vary too much. It is stated in the development plan that it will be professionally demanding to allow day-to-day operations to continue until the hospital in Nordmøre and Romsdal are ready, and that the company considers it important to start the process of developing a profession, work processes and organisation before moving into the new hospital. The Board of Health More and Romesdal discussed the operationalisation of the development plan in December 2018. It was pointed out that the process of merging the food supply in Molde and Kristiansund was scheduled to start in 2019 in view of the collection of a new hospital in Nordmøre and Romsdal, and that this will be followed up in line with the decision. In the context of the treatment of migration measures, it was stated that it was considered appropriate to bring together the food departments from summer 2019. The board of Health More and Romesdal has now decided that the food supply will be collected at Molde Hospital from August 2019.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e1171	It is particularly important to hear the answers of the Council of State when the nine rapporteurs who go to the hospital are fighting what they can to ensure that the maternity ward is in place. So they feel that it is a loss if the maternity ward is moved from Kristiansund. This is in stark contrast to the story of the Council of State. What is the matter is that the Council of State is the owner of the hospitals in More and Romesdal. It is the Council of State that decides who is on the board of the regional health undertaking, and it is the regional health undertaking that appoints the representatives of the board of Health Møre and Romesdal. The Governing Council has full control over the views of the Governing Council. I repeat my question: will the Council accept the decision of the Governing Council to close the maternity ward in Kristiansund before the new hospital is up and going and offering a better offer?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e1180	The presentation of the governance model was relatively correct – until the end, that it is the Council of State that decides what each member of the board of directors should think. Of course, that's not right. I expect both local health business boards and regional health business boards to make independent decisions, but, of course, within the national frameworks given, among others. in budgets and mission documents. What was the starting point of the question was that the representative Lundtigen claims that this is a decision that only has a background in the economy. As I pointed out in my answer, official quality data, professional assessments by the hospital show that this is a decision that is also based on professional assessments.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e1187	My presentation of the management model is correct. The whole point of the governance model is that the Council of State should get through its will with regard to the major structural changes in the individual hospital. This is also described in Section 30 of the Health Business Act, where there are issues of «essential importance», and there is experience that food departments are matters of major importance. We have many examples of directors who do not implement the will of the Council of State being replaced on the first occasion – that is what is the system. The essence of the matter is that the Council of State agrees with what is happening. That's why the board members are going to be sitting, the board members are doing a job that the entire Nordmøre, nine rapporteurs, say is completely wrong. Nevertheless, the Council of State is running on - if you don't want to, you have to! Isn't this unwise when we know how important the specialist health service and hospitals are to people's safety?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e1196	Of course, as a State Council, I have the opportunity to raise important questions in the business meeting under the Health Business Act § 30. That doesn't mean that all the questions will be moved up after this. I would like to remind you that this question, namely, the work of establishing a common hospital for Northern Ireland and Romesdal, has been dealt with by me in business meetings. I have agreed that there will be a common hospital for the North-Møre and Romesdal. This means that the work of working together these two organisations, establishing common professional environments, cannot start at the time the buildings are finished. When you're moving into a new hospital, you're not just moving into new buildings, you're also moving into a new organization.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e1201	Now we're in the situation that there are several of the questions that haven't appeared. It was so that the oral question time was a little earlier than planned. I suggest that the Council of State sit down and linger a little bit and stay, and then we see it a little bit. – Then we go back to question 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e1211	‘Unfair hospitals have the preparedness we rely on if many are seriously injured in accidents or terror. A risk assessment of what it will mean for the readiness of the capital, region and Norway to split up the overall emergency medical environment on Ullevål has probably not been observed. Does the Council of State consider it appropriate to adopt the closure of Ullevål Hospital, which involves a fragmentation of the emergency environment, without carrying out a risk assessment of what it will mean for the preparedness?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e1218	It's not a move from Ullevål that will be a reason for a split-up of today's acute environment on Ullevål, it's the establishment of a new acute hospital on Aker that's the cause. In addition to serving the population of Groruddalen, the new acute hospital in Aker will also be responsible for several urban areas, which today belong to Ullevål. Of course, when local hospital functions including emergency functions are to be transferred from Ullevål to Aker for these districts, health professionals must also be transferred. It is important that health professionals are best used in the capital area, not least for the rest of the country. I know the discussion about whether the new comprehensive regional hospital will have a large enough patient base to ensure adequate preparedness and emergency skills. The new regional hospital is planned with local hospital responsibility for three parts of the city, with approx. 170,000 inhabitants. It has been stated by some that this local hospital responsibility is too low to ensure acute competence at the regional hospital. Health South-East decided at its board meeting on 31 January to ask Oslo University Hospital to elaborate the acute and trauma medicine plans for the solution chosen, i.e. one regional hospital and one new emergency hospital in Aker. In this work, Oslo University Hospital has specifically been asked to assess the solution in Oslo towards solutions in other capitals. Health South-East is clear that they will ensure that the emergency and trauma services in a comprehensive regional hospital are provided with a large enough patient base to fulfil the role of the trauma recipient at Ullevål today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e1227	It is alarming that the Council of State cannot just admit that his plan involves a fragmentation. So the trauma room is going to the Rikshospitalet, the emergency hospital, otherwise it's going to Aker Hospital. In the event of major accidents or terror, patients do not come in with a label in their foreheads about what is wrong with them. You need to have all the specialties together to figure out quickly and save lives quickly. It has pointed out an overall professional environment, with fear of patient treatment if this overall environment, which is currently under one roof of Ullevål, splits, splits into two and is partially moved to the Rikshospital and partly to Aker. It is the plan of Health South-East, and there is probably a danger to patient safety. One should analyse the consequences before going into a plan in that case. Why is the Council of State opposed to examining the risk assessment of what this will mean for preparedness, before he approves these plans that are dangerous to patient safety? This is a split of the emergency hospital in two.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e1236	I hope the people of Oslo, especially in the Groruddalen, will realize that Red is now actively fighting the establishment of a large, new emergency hospital in Aker. It is good that this troll finally comes out into the light, because in this case the Bears Moxnes have tried to ride two horses for a very long time – to appear as both Ullevål's strongest defender and at the same time a defender of a large emergency hospital on Aker. Well, now this is obvious. The priority of red is to maintain Ullevål and thus provide the population of Groruddalen with a significantly lower hospital supply than that of the current plans. I hope that the people of the Grorud Valley will bring with them.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e1241	This is very childish from the Council of State — childishly awakening. We propose to start building up Aker as a local hospital for all four parts of Groruddalen. It won't happen if Ullevål is laid down, because then you have to transfer three other urban areas from Ullevål to Aker, urban areas that are not in Groruddalen. So the plans of the Council of State and Health South-East mean that it is postponed to allow Groruddalen to get Aker back as a local hospital for many years, perhaps first – possibly – after 2040. But we suggest in Stortinget – it lies in the committee, it can vote for – to start building up Aker as the local hospital for Alna, Bjerke, Stovner and Grorud. It is the districts of Groruddalen, Mr. State Council – not Nordstrand, not Østsjö, not Søndre Nordstrand, but Alna, Stovner, Grorud and Bjerke. It will block the plan of the Council of State, so he is the one who prevents the Grorud Valley from coming back to Aker, by going into a plan that involves the postponement of getting Aker as a local hospital – which is what people in Groruddalen want to get back, and not being at Ahus, as they are today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e1246	I understand that the representative wants to distinguish between the terms local hospital and emergency hospital. It's a division that doesn't exist. It's about building an emergency hospital on Aker. It must also accept acute patients. The representative is planning to move some parts of the city faster from Aarhus to the new hospital than that on which it is based in view of the population development in the Vikings and in Akershus. In this case, it will have quite dramatic consequences for Aarhus and the people of Akershus. Here again, the representative shows that he does not take into account the needs of the population for hospitals and health services in the central eastern region, but tries to ride more populist horses at the same time.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e1253	We go to question 8.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e1261	This question, from the representative Hans Inge Myrvold to the Minister of Health, is raised by the representative Kjersti Toppe.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e1266	‘The Governing Board of Health More and Romesdal, at its Governing Board meeting on 27 March 2019, decided to close the Kristiansund maternity ward, despite the fact that a professional report has demonstrated a high level of risk when merging. There is a particular risk of missing recruitment and staffing, loss of key personnel, long-distance travel for birth, preparedness and follow-up services. Born on Smøla, three hours of travel will now be provided for the supply of food. Does the Council of State Health More and Romesdal defend its decision, and does he think that the birth of Smøla exaggerates the distance disadvantages?»
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e1273	I am referring to the fact that in the follow-up to the National Health and Hospital Plan, I have stressed that any change in the food supply should not weaken the overall food supply. In the board case of aggregation of food supply, the need to ensure quality and sustainable professional development is highlighted as justification. The representative asks if the natives of Smøla exaggerate the distance disadvantages. Some give birth a longer journey when the maternity wards merge into one maternity ward in Molde Hospital. I am concerned that it is always working to ensure that the birthers get as good and safe an experience as possible. Among other things, the key to ensuring safety for the unborn is: Good midwife preparedness locally, accompanying services for those with a long journey and close cooperation with the ambulance service. I am referring to the fact that the Health More and Romesdal Board in its decision has pointed out the importance of prioritizing compensatory measures when the food departments of Kristiansund and Molde are merged.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e1280	My question was whether the Council of State would accept this, and I feel that the answer says. But I react to him thinking that it is not a weakening of the overall supply of food, and that one should take care of the quality and safety of follow-up services and good midwife locally. It is especially, in my view, that one first adopts a merger, and then one should find out about compensatory measures. You cannot manage health services like this, because it actually leads to a lot of security out there. Now I know that the Minister of Health has been invited to Smøla by those who are busy with the food supply. Will the Council of State accept that invitation?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e1287	When implementing this type of process, it is important to assess the risks and vulnerabilities and to apply compensatory measures. That's what I believe is the rule of Health More and Romsdal's decision, and I expect them to follow this up, of course. When it comes to bringing together the food supply in North Moravia and Romesdal, it is a consequence of the decision to build a common hospital. Making changes along the way, until a new hospital is completed, is not only necessary, it is also correct, precisely because one is not just going to move into new buildings. One shall also move into a new organisation, one shall build new teams together. It means, as the Health Council has decided on the same subject, that one of course also has to look at the functions that will remain in Kristiansund when the new hospital is finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e1294	For me, at least there is a big difference between shutting down and merging the food departments of Molde, and what was a compromise with the new common hospital. But when I hear the Council of State saying that it's not only desirable, but necessary to merge departments before a common hospital is in place, I'll show you the ROS analysis that was the basis for the common hospital decision. Section 5.3.2, under measures to maintain the professional environment and competence in the new hospital, states that one must: ‘Strengthening cooperation between Kristiansund – Molde with a view to building up functions to be passed on to the new hospital, does not put down departments which are nevertheless to be refurbished in a new hospital.’ What's happening now is the opposite. We have a government council that stands in the Storting and defends what is now happening, contrary to what was done in the ROS analysis, which was the basis for the whole decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e1306	I think the representative and I will read that point a little differently in the ROS analysis. I believe that the precisely process that the board has now initiated is a follow-up to this. It is also important that a person prepares the hospital organisation for what will become the new future, with a common hospital, but also a strong district medical centre in Kristiansund.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e1314	‘Stranded in Health More and Romesdal have adopted comprehensive cut proposals that go beyond the patient supply. A maternity ward is to be closed, rehabilitation facilities are to be taken over if possible by the private or local authorities, psychiatric facilities are to be cut, maintenance is to be privatised, short-term rest periods are to be laid down and the ambulance service is to be threatened. Spokespersons now choose to close all co-operation agreements with health professionals. Does the Council of State mean that this is the way to pursue hospital policy – to cut down on hospital operations and reduce costs to municipalities?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e1321	Health More and Romesdal have spent more resources over the years than the budgets claim. Health Mid-Norway has overall remained within the economic framework, but an additional consumption in one health business will have consequences for the region overall over time. Health Mid-Norway has pointed out that it is absolutely necessary for the Health Mora and Romesdal Board to address the economic challenges and look at measures to bring the operation into line with the financial framework. I believe, of course, that conversion measures are implemented in such a way that the service is still sound, and that the conversion takes place in dialogue with users, employees and municipalities. I have registered that some municipalities will terminate the cooperation agreement with the healthcare company. This is a right municipality under the law. However, I would like to remind you that the parties have an obligation to conclude new cooperation agreements when the cancellation expires. The cooperation agreement is an instrument to help patients and users receive a comprehensive range of healthcare services. It is very unfortunate if patients get injured by the termination of cooperation agreements because one of the parties wants to show resistance to functional distribution within the hospital. In my view, it would be to set aside the patients’ best – and in particular the most vulnerable patients, who need good patient profiles between the levels of service.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e1328	Government case 83/14 in Health Mid-Norway, concerning a new common hospital in the North-Møre and Romesdal, states paragraph 6 to increase the interaction between municipalities and to find a place. What we are experiencing now is that local government is canceling cooperation agreements with health care providers. The first municipality out was Gemnes yesterday, and I have come to realize that there is a great deal of unrest in the municipalities when it comes to the agreement and the additional tax on the municipalities. What would the Council of State do to restore confidence in the municipalities of Northern Moravia?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e1337	I expect Health Møre and Romesdal and Health Mid-Norway to help enter into dialogue with the municipalities about this. There is an obligation to have such cooperation agreements. This means that if cooperation agreements are dissolved, the process of creating new cooperation agreements must be initiated – which are mandatory. I understand that there are strong reactions to the measures now being implemented in Health More and Romesdal, but I also expect all parties to contribute to the next meeting and to talk together – for the benefit of the citizens and patients in the region.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e1344	Does the Minister not understand that health care professionals practice to ease tasks in municipalities without money brings an additional tax on municipalities around them? There will also be a tax on patients, who are uncertain about their supply, if they do not want to be so good. This affects those for whom the healthcare service is available, i.e. patients. We have Mork and Aure who are active in rehabilitation today in a forward-looking way – well-implemented rehabilitation services that have been there for decades. We have the DPS on Lake Holt, where the daily places are now definitely closed, where both the magnificence and the government have said that there should be a bet on psychiatric services near people. Host: Will the Council of State approve decisions taken by the Board of Health Executives of the More and Romesdal on the termination of this offer?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e1353	I do not feel that the board of Health Moor and Romesdal have decided to shut down these two rehabilitation institutions, neither Mork nor Aure, but have started work to look at alternatives, and you also want close cooperation with the municipalities. Of course, I am going all the way to follow the decisions of the Health Moor and Romesdal Board, and make sure that the decisions they are making are in line with national leadership given in mission documents and in the National Health and Hospital Plan. That's the situation now. I also expect the parties to meet at some point, sit down and talk together – for the benefit of the citizens and patients – because they are obliged to have cooperation agreements on patient outcomes in healthcare.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e1361	This question, from the representative of Mr Sigbjørn Gælsvik to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Health and Welfare on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who has been removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e1366	‘EU and Iceland agreed on 22 March that the provisions in force in the third energy package do not affect Iceland’s ‘full, sovereign control of Iceland’s energy resources and their power to determine how they are to be used and managed. Decisions on electricity connections between Iceland and the EU electricity market are completely below the competence of the Icelandic authorities". Norway has not received a corresponding EU declaration. Will the government take the initiative to re-examine the Acer case by Stortinget?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e1373	I will reply to the representative, Mr Gælsvik, on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In March 2018, the majority agreed to the inclusion of the third energy market package in the EEA Agreement, following a thorough debate. Norway and Liechtenstein have completed their national processes. The question of consent must also be dealt with by Everything in Iceland, which now has the matter under consideration. The Icelandic Foreign Minister, Gudlauguur Thor Thordarson, and the EU Climate and Energy Commissioner, Miguel Arias Cañete, issued a joint opinion in March on the EU's third energy market package and its relationship with Iceland. The opinion is fully in line with government assessments of the same EEA legislation. The opinion concerns the same decision of the EEA Committee of May 2017 concerning the third energy market package with EEA adaptations on the basis of which Stortinget’s examination was carried out in March 2018. There is therefore no reason to resubmit the matter. As Stortinget dealt with the matter of the third energy market package last year, it became clear that the national legislation on power network concessions, foreign tables and power plants will continue to apply. Something else has never been relevant. This is also reflected in the joint opinion of Iceland and the EU. The opinion points out that large parts of the current energy market legislation do not have a practical impact on Iceland as long as the Icelandic energy system is an isolated system and is not linked to the EU. This isn't new either. But it is not that Iceland has been granted a derogation from the legislation. It shall remain the same as for all three EEA/EFTA countries. The opinion also refers to the solution in the EEA adaptations, which implies that the EFTA Surveillance Authority, ESA, is still taking decisions in cases involving the EEA/EFTA States. The Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators, Acer, may take decisions in demarcated areas in cross-border cases between two EU countries. For all EEA/EFTA countries, the ESA is responsible for taking such decisions. The government’s proposal to include the third energy market package in the EEA Agreement is based on our Norwegian interests. We have a long experience with a climate-friendly supply of energy based on hydropower in Norway. We've been working together on power exchange in the Nordic region for decades. The Nordic power link will be challenged and weakened if the legislation applicable to our Nordic partners does not apply to us. A broad majority of the Stortinget supported the decision to include the third energy market package last year. The acquis was adopted in the EU in 2009 and has been carefully assessed over a long period of time. The joint declaration between Iceland and the EU is based on the same basis as the Stortinget made its position last March and therefore does not address the issue dealt with in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e1392	In Norway, we have built Norwegian society through generations, among others. by ensuring Norwegian ownership and control of power resources. An important element for Norway has also been that we have provided reasonable and stable electricity prices, for the benefit of both the Norwegian people and the Norwegian industry. With the EU's third energy market package, vital parts of Norwegian energy policy will be put under the EU. We allow the European Agency for Safety and Health (ACER) to override decisions taken in Norway — to which the Minister of Health himself refers — on cross-border issues that concern, among other things. distribution of costs in the case of cables. When one of the Stortinges has made so-called mandatory demands in this case, why has one not made provision for a joint declaration with the EU in order to get the EU's understanding of how the legislation is to be understood by Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e1399	This is because there has not been any confusion about that understanding. It is clear that national legislation on concessions to electricity networks, foreign tables and power plants will continue to apply and that national authorities are in charge of controlling and exploiting energy resources. What the representative Gülsvik is now actually inviting through his follow-up question is the same discussion that preceded the Storting decision. These issues have been clarified, and there is nothing in the Iceland-EU declaration that differs from the Norwegian position and that was also the basis for the Storting decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e1404	What the Stortinget did on 22 March last year was to agree to a decision of the EEA Committee as of 5 May 2017. The EEA Committee’s decision was without reservation from the Norwegian side. There were also no declarations there, either joint declarations with the EU or national declarations by the Norwegian side, as part of that decision. In retrospect, in an agreement that the government has concluded with the Workers' Party, some so-called mandatory demands have been made. They have subsequently been diluted and sent to the EU for information, and the only EU that has notified back is that they have taken note of the Norwegian views. This, of course, is not legally binding on the European Union. If one considers that those requirements are perfectly clear, if one considers that they should apply, why has one not Norwegian side provided for a joint declaration with the EU on this matter and made sure to send that statement back to the Storting for treatment?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e1411	This is because – as I also said in my main post – this is a relationship that has already been clarified. There is a common understanding of this legislation and therefore there is no need for that type of joint declaration. This is clear, and it was also clear in advance of Storting's treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e1420	‘A well-functioning capital market is essential for the development of profitable enterprises. Norway is cutting high in access to capital but low in investment. We need to develop new activity with the potential to gradually replace the high value creation that petroleum stands for. A good public debate on how to achieve a more effective link between innovative enterprises and owners of capital is therefore important. Why does the government not choose to promote a large-scale notification based on the Capital Access Committee, the 50 consultation recordings and proposals for action?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e1427	I was handed over to the Capital Access Committee's investigation, NOU 2018: 5, Capital in the time of conversion, in March last year. I fully agree with Mr Grung that a well-functioning capital market is crucial for the development of profitable businesses and projects. The selection considers that the Norwegian capital market is mainly functioning well. The vast majority of expected profitable companies and projects have access to funding at a price reflecting their risk. In addition, the sample considers that there is competition on the provider’s side and that authorities have mainly established balanced framework conditions. Nevertheless, the sample considers that there is room for improvement, especially in certain sub-markets, and that the flow of information between investors and enterprises should be improved. The committee made 46 specific recommendations. I believe that the investigation provides a good basis for assessing the capital market in Norway and industrial access to capital. In addition, the investigation, as the representative also mentions, has been at broad public consultation. That's been a good interest. There were more than 50 responses to the hearing. A consultation conference has also been held to increase the understanding and understanding of the sample’s proposals and the various consultation sessions. The current departments are now considering the recommendations of the sample, both in the light of the hearings received and in the light of other relevant ongoing processes. For example, regulatory developments are already under way in the financial market area and the government has launched a comprehensive review of the instrument. So we're evaluating the follow-up to the investigation and its many recommendations. I would like to stress that we are not considering how to follow it up, but we are currently assessing the actual measures. In other words, we go straight to the recommendations of the sample, look at the hearings and consider what is appropriate follow-up at each point. We aim to inform Stortinget about the follow-up to the investigation in the context of the State budget for 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e1442	Thanks for the answer. In fact, Norwegian capital is invested in Life Science in Sweden, in technology in Sweden, but it does not hit the industries that are in ‘start-up’ or on their way to development in Norway. With a long experience from Stortinget, I know how important it is to get a public debate and understanding, so that it is not fragmented and only placed in subchapters when we are presented with the state budget. The question is repeated: isn't it important to have an overall understanding of the relationship between capital, research and intelligent capital, of how these different things work together? For example, Sweden has set up a new state fund to coordinate. There is a little urgency about bringing up new growth activity in Norway, so the question is: Why not a wide public debate through the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e1447	It is precisely because I believe many of the measures are urgent. If you want to make a big message, the department first has to write the big message – it is not a bill – the concrete follow-up will come in budgets, mostly, and then it will be dealt with in Stortinget. It'll take a lot of time. There are many measures that you agree on here, and there is no reason to expect that there will be some major controversy around it. Nor is there any automation in that a NOU has to become a staging message. My assessment has been that it is better to actually follow up on this, not just follow up with a big message that means that the government is notifying further follow-up. The fact that Norwegian capital is also invested abroad is not a problem in itself, but it is a challenge that we still have too little capital in some areas. That is why we are creating, for example: seed funds to compensate for it. We have now set up new renewable investments, which will also help invest in new climate technologies.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e1454	The challenge is that it is so fragmented, and that is one of the things that they point to in all these proposals – to see it as a whole. For example, the Health Industry Notice, which is likely to be presented during this week, has been used as a basis for long-term investment. It's all about understanding that it might not be enough just to have a seed fund, you have to see if the seed fund has an effect, and maybe manage to have more dynamic support schemes, because we have good access to capital. It might be a vulnerability that we can't control it against establishing businesses. I ask again: does it mean that democracy takes so long that you choose it away and instead continue to make it fragmented? Is it not possible, in the light of all the hearings, to bring something overall? At least when it comes to the main issues, we need a public debate, and then a good deal can be sidetracked. But the main challenge is to match the innovative start-up and smart capital.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e1461	The fact that the government follows it up without a big message does not mean that you follow it up fragmentedly. It is the Ministry of Economic Affairs that owns the sample, although the instruments are located in many different departments. It also means that it is the Ministry of Economic Affairs which, together with the respective departments, coordinates this process further. I fully agree that things can often get too fragmented, but that's exactly why we put this sample down, and that's why we follow it up as well. Sometimes it is right to have a big message, but in this case I do not think a big message is necessary. Of course, everything the government is doing is being informed about, and it is being discussed in budgetary documents, etc., but we are following this whole thing up. We haven't just distributed it, and then we wait for something to happen. We follow this up because we believe that access to capital to Norwegian businesses is crucial. In addition, a number of measures may be proposed. Among other things, the sample considers that the reduction of the property tax can also contribute to more capital for Norwegian enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e1477	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e1485	‘In October last year, the members of the Environment Directorate were given the task of identifying potential areas which may be subject to supplementary protection, with a deadline of 1 February this year. The staff will first propose specific areas and the Environment Directorate will then carry out an overall assessment of the proposals made by the counties. When will one start involving parties other than the statesmen in the process?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e1492	In order to safeguard Norwegian nature in a good way, Stortinget has agreed to the implementation of supplementary protection. Now we're preparing this work. Based on natural knowledge and assessments, county officials have now identified areas that may be relevant for subsequent protection processes in order to complement current protection. Before the summer, the Environment Directorate will send its recommendation to the Ministry of Climate and Environment on the scope of supplementary protection and an overall assessment of its socio-economic impact. Then, at a general level, together with other relevant government councils, I will balance the scientific advice against other societal considerations. From this I will decide to what extent and where concrete protection processes are to be initiated. Staff will be able to start this work by the end of 2019 or 2020. These protection processes will normally take place in accordance with the rules of the Nature Diversity Act, the Administrative Act and the Investigation Instructions, so that all stakeholders, including municipalities, are involved in the process. In this way, the balances between protection interests and other social interests in the specific areas will also be made.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e1501	I hear the Council's response on involvement, but that's what the letter of assignment says, which makes me a little worried, because it says it's going to take place in two phases. We need to identify specific areas, which I understand are well under way, which are relevant to supplementary protection. Then, in phase 2, the Department shall entrust the Directorate with the task of initiating the protection planning processes for the specific areas. In this way, I feel that you're jumping over the involvement that should also be present for successful protection, because in phase 1, you've already picked out areas that are ready to start the protective planning processes. So my question is, does the Council of State think this is a good way to approach municipalities, landowners and other administrative authorities, that we are going straight to the protection process?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e1508	Now that's exactly what we're not doing; we're not going straight to the protection process. First we have a professional survey, and that's the mapping that the county officials have now done. The Directorate-General for the Environment then takes an assessment of what areas they think should be further assessed. So, the Ministry of Climate and Environment, together with other departments, is weighing whether there are other societal reasons we need to take care of, before we start the protection processes that will follow the Storting decision on supplementary protection. At that time, everyone will be involved in each of the individual proposals, in the individual processes, in a very common way – it will be the landowner, it will be the municipalities, and there will also be other interests. This is the beginning of a job, that's the natural basis, and then we'll follow it in the usual way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e1515	It is good to want to be involved at a later stage, but it is well, as far as I have understood, that it is the statesmen who have now pointed out areas that are relevant to protection. Shouldn't the state also ensure local involvement in the process before sending it away, just to give a better input into the protection process? I'm still a little worried about what's in point 2 of the mission letter, namely that the directorate will have a mission to start the security planning processes for the specific areas. But shouldn't we have involved other parties earlier, by the statesmen? That's the real question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e1522	That the representative is concerned that we should take care of Norwegian nature is nothing new. But no, I think that this is the right way to do it, that first you have to have a professional basis, which then the Environment Directorate is going to evaluate further. After all, when you involve landowners, municipalities and others, it's based on what you're going to focus on, which interests you're going to focus on, which is much more than a counter-interest balance, and which is ultimately a political decision, in the light of the professional processes you've had in front of you.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e1530	‘25 organisations, with NHO, LO and Zero headed, are associated with an overall opposition on the Stortinget behind the wish for a CO 2 fund for business transport. Nevertheless, we could read in Dagbladet on 25 March that several years' work on getting the fund in place has stranded. Why has the Council of State left a chance to reduce emissions from the transport sector in an efficient and targeted way?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e1540	The government, together with the organisations, has discussed possible solutions for a CO 2 business transport fund. The government has been willing to discuss several possible models to set up such a fund and has already set aside half a billion dollars for the purpose of this year's government budget. However, for business organisations there has been an absolute requirement for their members to be exempted from the CO 2 tax, in accordance with the model of the NOx fund. I agree with Mr Botten that it is important to reduce emissions from the transport sector in an efficient and targeted way. This is precisely why it is important that we do not erode one of the effective instruments we have, namely the CO 2 tax. Climate policy in Norway is based on the polluter-pays principle. When it costs to pollute, all decisions that give rise to increased emissions are more expensive, while decisions that reduce emissions are relatively cheaper. The government has determined that it is not relevant with a CO 2 fund where exemptions from the CO 2 tax are granted. We propose that it be financed from the expenditure side of the State budget. It is now clear that the NHO and the other organisations do not want to continue their discussions because they disagree with the government about the organisation of the fund. We have been open to them managing a fund based on appropriations, but the collection of 25 organisations only wanted a model after the NOx fund. We are therefore moving on with a CO 2 fund within the framework of Enova. In the state budget for 2019, we have already spent nearly half a billion dollars for the purpose. I don't think we're going to let the chance pass by, on the contrary, we have the funds in place, we have the organization in order, and we're going to get started quickly with a targeted commitment to zero-emission technology in the transport of nutrients through Enova. I think a CO 2 fund under Enova will be a more targeted tool to reduce emissions from industrial transport. My invitation to the business community to participate in the design of a fund stands at hand. We like to discuss different models to implement new technologies to reduce emissions, but assume that everyone has to pay for their emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e1572	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Erna was at the annual conference of the Economic and Social Committee and invited businesses to make a proposal for a CO 2 fund, which they would try to establish. The business community worked a lot on it and has replied that they want to get a CO 2 fund that is built according to the NOx Fund framework. So the discussion here is whether Enova is going to be the fund, or whether it's going to be a NOx fund package. But what I don't understand is that Erna, when she invited it, wasn't in the Ministry of Finance first and checked: what kind of framework conditions do we have, what opportunities do we have to be flexible here? Is it true that the Council of State would have negotiated a CO 2 fund built on the NOx fund, but with various negotiating options with the Ministry of Finance regarding the device? Or is it that the answer is only Enova?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e1586	We've opened up to have a different organization, outside of Enova, but the disagreement has gone in the way of financing a CO 2 fund. The organisations have been clear that it must be via a tax relief in the case of the CO 2 tax, while we believe that it must be above the State budget. This was also a decision of the revised national budget in 2017, expressing by the majority at the time that any CO 2 fund is financed through an allocation from the expenditure side of the State budget. So these have been known positions before. But I really believe that with what we're doing now -- we've put the funds in place, half a billion in Enova to be used for business transport -- a CO 2 fund can come into operation much faster and be an effective tool to reduce emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e1603	I will continue to challenge the Council of State on this, because a CO 2 fund will be much more committed to business as well. It must be very clear to the Council of States that we have set ourselves climate targets to bring down 50 pst. of the emissions in the transport sector by 2030, and with measures that do not take or that the business community is not in, you really have to look in the mirror and think that we are in the wrong direction here. How we're actually going to achieve those emission targets is incredibly important. Klima-Left has been very clear that you are looking to bring down the emissions, and with a government council from the Left, I have great expectations that you will both listen to the actors who are involved and want to get to this, and in addition, you can be clear on: What is the contribution? For what is the government going to do to meet the objective of not taking the CO 2 fund on a premise that actually commits you to this business?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e1614	To be quite clear, and let it be quite clear: the obligation we do not negotiate. We have multiple targets, we're going to reduce our emissions by 40 pst. in the non-quota sector together with the EU by 2030. The government has set itself the goal of presenting a plan to bring down 45 pst, and for the transport sector, we are going down 50 pst. towards 2030. It's not part of a debate. It's a commitment we're going to have, we're going to implement it. And we've now started a CO 2 fund – already set aside half a billion dollars for this for the current year – to focus on heavy transport, commercial transport, to get started as quickly as possible. My challenge now is to get this in place as quickly as possible and make it as simple as we can, just to get results from all the different operators in the business transport sector. This works.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e1625	‘The process of supplementary protection is a follow-up to the Report. St. 14 [[2015-2016]] What other departments have been in the process of premising and criteria for this process, which have already identified potential areas of protection?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e1632	The background to the work on a limited additional protection, as the representative Fasterale says, is the nature diversity message, as the Stortinget dealt with in 2016. Then Stortinget joined – and I was also the leader of the Energy and Environment Committee – in order to implement a limited additional protection. As I just replied to the representative Myhrvold, this is necessary in order to provide Norwegian nature with adequate protection. Although today it is protected approx. 17 pst. of mainland Norway, i.e. except Svalbard, the protected areas are not representative of all habitat types. Nor do they adequately preserve endangered nature. There are particularly lower areas in South Norway, especially below 300 moh., which are poorly covered, while mountain nature is overrepresented. As I just replied to the representative Myhrvold, the statesmen have now identified relevant areas based on their natural knowledge and knowledge of nature in their state. I stress that at an overall level, I will assess and weigh the scientific advice against other societal considerations. Of course, I want to do this in the usual way with the other departments. Thereafter, a decision will be taken on the extent to which and where concrete protection processes will be initiated. In these processes, the balances between protection interests and other social interests in the specific areas will be made. Of course, the assumption of the size of a limited supplementary protection system will be the basis for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e1645	It was probably an answer as expected, because one thing is certain: there is no trace of other departments at all being in the picture at the forefront of the process – no trace of either agriculture, industry, municipality or transport, to mention anything. These days, the county officials are sending in their directory lists of areas. As an example, the State of the Inland Region has recorded 150 relevant areas for future either nature reserves, national parks or landscape protected areas. Recordings are very detailed. The State has appointed several local protection area governments around the country who have gradually built up significant competence in the management of their protected areas. Have they been actively used in any way in this process?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e1654	If they have been used by the statesmen, if there has been contact there, I do not know. What is important is that we are early in a larger process of supplementary protection. This is the first paragraph, where the statesmen send in their scientific assessments of where it might be relevant, to identify the knowledge they have within the various states. Next round will be in the Environment Directorate, which will then make a recommendation to the Ministry of Climate and Environment. We will then do a job with the other departments, also balance interests, and then come up with a proposal on where protection processes should be started. In the protection process in each area, there will be extensive work against municipalities, landowners and other stakeholders, who will have the opportunity to bring their case before them.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e1661	That's the process we're talking about here. The message we have referred to says that the key to good natural management is the municipalities. It is quite well described in the message. In fact, the municipalities are totally excluded from the monitoring within their own municipality. I have also noticed that the county council member in India has been in the media and has put some question mark on this process, and has asked for a meeting with the state council. Will the Council of State take into account the delegation of rapporteurs and the state of the Inland region when making their input, which is very critical of the way in which the Department and the Council of State have set up this process?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e1666	The letter of assignment shall be completed by the county council. I expect you to do it the usual way. This is, as I said, the professional basis, which is the starting point for the future evaluations of the areas in which further progress is to be made. It's early, and it's a purely professional assessment. Then it's the Environment Directorate, and then together with other departments we want to balance. Municipalities, landowners and others will be involved before a final decision is taken on new protected areas. This will be a thorough process in which all weighings and all recordings will be able to be carried out and evaluated before a final decision is taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e1676	‘On behalf of the Environment Directorate, the County of the Inland Region has drawn up a list of the areas of interest with nature reserve quality and with national park and/or landscape protection quality. The list is based only on purely natural qualities, in line with the mission given to Fylkesen. The Ministry will then assess whether a new national park plan should be drawn up in the light of the proposed areas. If the department chooses to go further with the areas proposed by the Directorate, when will other social assessments be included?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e1683	As with all other statesmen, the State of the Interior has provided an overview of areas which they consider to be relevant for the protection of natural resources. As I have replied to the representatives of Myhrvold and Fasterøne, I will assess and balance the interests of nature against other societal considerations when I receive the recommendation of the Environment Directorate. I will do this in close cooperation with the other departments concerned and before considering the overall extent of the further work on the supplementary protection. Once the extent of subsequent protection processes has been decided, these processes will start in the counties. There will be consultations and involvement of landowners, municipalities and organisations in the usual way. Individual protection proposals will be assessed against other societal interests, first through the proceedings of the county councillors and then at the level of the directorate and department. A good example of how this is done in practice in individual cases is the recent Ursvatnet Protection Decision in Northern Ireland. Here I believe that good balances were made with regard to the company Brønnø Kalk. Road construction for the holding was well maintained in the protection process. The representative Knutsdatter Strand is also concerned about the preparation of a separate national park plan. I think it makes sense if many of the areas of supplementary protection prove to be relevant as a national park. As of today, we don't know how many areas there might be. The supplementary protection may include the creation of new protection areas, the extension of existing and, where appropriate, the conversion of the protection category.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e1698	It is worth pointing out that the Centre Party and the Left have a fundamentally different view of nature values. We think these have to be put into service. No exact limits have been drawn on any map, and these could be further adjusted in the process, as I understand it. The points the Province has chosen to attach to maps must also provide an estimate of the size of the areas in the next round. Phase 2 is the protection plan process and there is a need for contact with the municipalities covered by the areas concerned for protection. How quickly will the process proceed, and does the Council of State not consider that professional competence locally is important in the professional assessments?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e1705	As I have said, we are early in this process. I think it is interesting if the representative believes that the Central Party and the Left have a fundamentally different view of nature. We have to use nature to preserve the value of it. That's the very basis for the economic development we're going to have. If the Center Party has the opposite view, it's interesting. As I have said several times, we will now have the Environment Directorate's proposals. We're going to have a thorough discussion between the different departments, and it's expected that we can get the county officials back on track by the end of 2019 or 2020. There will then be extensive consultation rounds and processes for all to be heard. It will be in the municipalities, with landowners, organisations and others who will have input into which areas will finally be proposed and decided to protect.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e1712	I'm not going to ask questions about the Council's hearing, but I just want to point out that it was the natural values I talked about, not nature itself. It could have been an interesting debate to pursue further ideologically. I would rather go back to the matter. We believe that the landowners must be involved, and local considerations must be part of the assessments. Moreover, this is a counter-conflict rather than involving the municipalities after the Ministry has landed it. In the list of supplementary protection phase 1, there are two major areas in North Aurdal and West Slider, among others. This is an area with a lot of activity as active steel drift. The area is also known as Stølsvírda and became a selected cultural landscape two years ago. Many feared that this was the first step towards peace, but the local community was assured that this was not the case. Now this is coming. In other contexts, silencing is almost protective. How will the active use of nature, such as ‘steeling’ and food production, be weighed into the protection assessments?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e1719	Firstly, this with selected cultural landscapes is a voluntary scheme that is popular in many places, and which I hope is also assessed there. Otherwise, it is far too early to say now which areas further protection processes will be considered. It is not that the municipalities are not taken care of until the department has decided. The Ministry has definitely not made up its mind until all consultation rounds have been completed and all weighings have been evaluated. Then a decision will be made at the end. Otherwise, it is not only the areas of protection but also the protection purpose and regulations that will be essential for what can be permitted in a protected area. For many areas, protection would just mean preserving existing uses, because existing uses have given the protection values that lie there.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e1733	This question has been postponed to the next question hour.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e1741	‘Although the number of children’s marriages has fallen globally, child marriages are still a common practice. This is why the UN's resilience target of ending all child marriages by 2030 is very important to support. The work against child marriage is about more than formal marriage, it is also about knowledge about your own body and dishes. Is it possible for the Council of State to take stock of how far it has come to put in place a strategy against child and coercion in international work?’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e1748	I fully agree with the representative of Tajik that it is very important to support the work against child marriage. I would therefore like to thank the representative for the question. The government will launch the strategy for our international work against harmful customs during 2019. This is an important part of strengthening our efforts against child and coercion. The strategy will also address the work against gender mutilation. This is in line with the UN Sustainable Development Goal 5.3, which deals with the elimination of all harmful customs, such as child marriage, early marriage, forced marriage and female sexual mutilation, by 2030. In addition to this, we will include a third harmful practice in the strategy, namely preference for boys and discrimination against girls, a work such as: is a priority of the UN Population Fund, UNFPA. When it comes to the question of how far we've come, it's within the year we're going to deliver on it. In addition, I would like to stress the importance of learning from what has been done and taking into account the evaluations in this area. The UN, and in particular UNFPA, as mentioned, and UNICEF are – together with civil society – important partners in Norway’s work against harmful customs. UNFPA and UNICEF have joint programmes to combat gender mutilation and child marriage, and evaluations of these two programmes are completed in these days. We have chosen to await the findings of the evaluations before completing the strategy. As the representative Tajik so accurately expresses it in his question, this is not only about formal marriage, but also about knowledge of your own body and dishes. Work on harmful practices must be seen in the context of other efforts for education, global health and gender equality — and in particular to promote sexual and reproductive health and rights, including sexual education. While supporting these efforts, targeted action is also important to help accelerate global efforts against harmful customs. Last week I came home from Bangladesh and one of the big camps there with the Rohingya refugees. There is evidence that legislation has come into place, but some of the challenges that are about to escalate are precisely linked to child marriage, which one thought was in the process of being controlled. Now one sees that girls down to the 10-11s on a larger and larger scale are being hit by just this. This is an important effort, and we're going to work as well as we can in the future, and we're going to have it clear by year.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e1771	It is very good to hear that the strategy will be presented during 2019. It is also good to hear that a person works on the basis of establishing a partnership with voluntary organisations and civil society. It is clear that they have an important role to play in this, together with multilateral actors and authorities in other countries. In Norway, Plan International Norway, and not least its young people — one of them in the gallery today — has highlighted this issue and have highlighted the importance of working towards the spread of child marriages around the world. To challenge traditional gender roles, which are often at the bottom of this, is not a simple task, but it is most necessary for happiness. How has the Council of State intended to challenge the traditional gender roles in this context?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e1776	The first thing that met me on the day I was about to join was one of the young people from just Plan. We met at the airport, and I got a very clear message, the youth organisation was here this weekend, it was just child marriage that was on the agenda. That is something we take with us in everything we do in development policy. I believe that in a time when you have worked with many of these courts, and in the work done over the year – ever since the Cairo Conference, which has its 25th anniversary now – you can see just how important that effort was. I think the plan we're putting forward will be important precisely so that we can get the job research-based and get even more effect out of the effort we're making in this important area.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e1781	It is good to hear that the Council of State is pulling the lines all the way back to Cairo and the UN Population Fund. It is as he says, 25 years ago Gro Harlem Brundtland at that conference raised women's right to self-determined abortion and not least power over their own bodies, including for women and girls all over the world. That is precisely why I could have intended to listen more about how the Council of State intends to work. The issues of sexual and reproductive health are often taboos of many places, some places are perceived to be contrary to religion or tradition. In some countries, there are also political leaders who are active against women in general, but also young people, regardless of sex, getting that kind of information and having that kind of power over their own bodies. Therefore, we need to know more about how the government intends to do this. Did Norway come to take leadership in this context?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e1786	One of the things I'm very happy to say in our country about this area is that sexual education can never come early enough. It's so important that both girls and boys get to know sexuality and their own bodies and their own rights. It's some of what I've brought with me to meet Heads of State, we've already heard that. Obviously, it challenges many of them. But I think we have a lot of good examples to take with us from Norway, how it's been built up here. That it challenges, we're aware of, but that doesn't mean we're going to stop challenging.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e1791	So the ordinary question time is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-03.ana.ud23e1805	There is no record available. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
