ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-07.ana.ud580e42	The representative, Mr Solfrid Lerbreck, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-07.ana.ud580e47	I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on behalf of the representatives of Audun Lysbakken, Karin Andersen, Solveig Schaugvoll Foss and myself for the immediate introduction of further care allowance in the period after the child's death.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-07.ana.ud580e52	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-07.ana.ud580e71	The measure currently deals with a proposition in which a general rule of circumvention is laid down in the Tax Act and the VAT Act. I would like to thank the Committee on Cooperation in this matter, and I would also like to thank the many actors who have contributed to the Committee's work. That was also why the Financial Committee wanted to spend a little more time dealing with the proposition. This is a complicated and legal technical matter, but there is also a lot of policy in it. The proposition is based on a public investigation delivered in 2016. In the opinion of the Financial Committee, the Financial Committee considers that a rule of law is to be adopted which has so far been based on case-law. The general nature of the provisions adopted is important in order to take account of new methods of circumvention that we do not yet know. The legislator’s preparatory work to this rule will therefore be an important guide for the Court’s understanding of the Storting’s will. I will now go briefly through parts of the committee's attitude. During the examination of the case, questions were raised as to whether the case law established by the Court of Justice in 2014 page 227, the so-called ConocoPhillips judgment, or the Tangen judgment, should remain in force after the adoption of new § 13-2 of the Tax Act. The Committee concludes in its opinion that the legal status of this type of transaction will not be altered by this legislative decision. Furthermore, there has been discussion of a problem relating to whether it has been stated or mentioned by the legislator or the authorities that they intended to circumvent, but not in line with those intended circumventions with specific rules prohibiting them in particular, should be to the detriment of the State in legal proceedings. To this end, the Committee today makes clear the following principle: the fact that a legislator knows or has mentioned a possible circumvention without complying with specific rules shall not count at the disadvantage of the State in legal proceedings. An example I'm sure we'll hear more about, is how, for example. cryptocurrency enters this by deducting taxes. The Stortinget as legislator must be able to discuss this and address it without having to follow up legal work immediately. Furthermore, the Committee considers in its opinion that the proposed Section 13-2, fifth paragraph, should only be used where there is no basis for other ways in which the legal situation should be rehearsed. There may be cases where the taxpayer has not had a nearby possibility of carrying out a re-characterised disposition, or it is not possible to imagine any alternative arrangement at all. In such cases, probably few, this provision is intended to be used. Nevertheless, it is important that the law is effective in relation to new and unknown circumvention cases, and from such a perspective it is necessary to have alternatives to re-characterisation in order to establish the appropriate tax base. The legislative proposal also deals with the legalisation of a general rule on value added tax. To this end, the Committee has received many input from different bodies. The proposal states that a legislative act in this area shall not lead to a change in the application of the law or impede the development of the law in this area. The starting point for the courts shall continue to be an interpretation of the provisions of the VAT Act, but unacceptable circumvention may also occur in this area which cannot be offset by a purpose-oriented interpretation. The law will clarify the conditions and effects of a circumvention of VAT. The Committee considers that there is no reason to consider the general principle that the threshold for the use of circumvention in the two areas should be equal or have specific deviations. Finally, the taxpayers who are uncertain as to whether an arrangement could be challenged by the tax authorities may ask for binding ex ante statements. This mechanism ensures predictability for taxpayers, and the Committee considers this to be a good tool. The Committee also takes the view that the government will ensure that such requests are dealt with as quickly as possible by the tax authorities. It is also good that the government in the next year’s state budget proposes to strengthen the tax complaint issue by 8 million. kr to strengthen staffing and reduce the length of proceedings. Finally, there is a typing error in point 2.4, third paragraph, of the setting where the word 'om' has occurred once too much. I would also like to inform you that the parties to the Government will vote against proposal No. One from the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-07.ana.ud580e101	This matter we are dealing with here is an important matter. It's a demanding thing. I would like to thank the case rapporteur both for doing a thorough job, and for having arranged for us in the committee to spend a good amount of time on the matter. It just illustrates a little bit of the point – that you have to get a statutory rule of conduct – that you get through the process to clarify both what is the current state of law and what is the will of the Stortinge in the various aspects being addressed here. It shall be clear to Norwegian citizens, to Norwegian businesses and to others affected by Norwegian law, what is the law in force and how it is to be practised. We've seen in other things how important it is that you just have clarity about it. That's why it's important that you don't, as in the past, just have an illegal rule of circumvention, but that you actually now have a proposition from the government to base. There is a recommendation, the consideration of the financial committee and further correspondence with the ministry on questions that need to be clarified. Finally, there is a debate, a discussion in the Chamber and a decision on the matter. I believe that I am in favour of strengthening Norwegian law, which also makes it easier for those affected by Norwegian law to know what they actually have to do. The centre party is generally in favour of having a general bypass rule statutory, and lowering the threshold, which is laid down here. At the same time, it is important in relation to the different ways in which this threshold is lowered, that one has a conscious relationship with the kind of consequences it can have in different contexts. There have been some hearings from different agencies, which problematize and believe that there has not been a good enough response and an assessment of the possible consequences of this, for example. in the case of taxation and relationships between Norwegian and foreign companies. The lot of the centre supports what is underlying the proposition for the decisions taken. We believe that there is a weakness in the fact that no more is actually going into and making careful assessments of how different proposals are in relation to Norwegian interests. What surprises us a little bit is that the majority cannot participate in our proposal, which is generally designed to make an assessment in future cases, it is incredibly important to make assessments of how different laws, different rules, to be adopted in this Chamber, affect Norwegian interests, for Norwegian companies competing with foreign companies and between different companies. That's what's at the heart of that proposal, and I'm a little surprised that you can't be willing to assess it. Finally, the case rapporteur was also concerned with the subject of the tax complaint, and that there is a strengthening of the subject of the tax complaint in this year's budget. It really should be missing. It is absolutely essential that we have the necessary capacity in the subject of the tax complaint, so that those who are unsure about whether they have received the right tax and have tax-related complaints should be dealt with promptly. This has been a challenge over time, as the Center Party has pointed out several times before. It is only right and fair that it should be strengthened. This attention should be given to the future and further strengthen the position and capacity of the tax complaint subject. I would like to deal with this in the vote on the proposal put forward by the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-07.ana.ud580e114	The representative of Sigbjørn Gülsvik has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-07.ana.ud580e119	A country must have tax income in any case. That means that when someone sneaks away from paying their taxes, someone else has to pay more. Therefore, tax evasion is unfair and, frankly, quite provocative. I am now pleased that an overall committee is in favour of legislating a general circumvention rule. It is an important step towards clarifying the law more and combating tax evasion. However, we must remember that the purpose of this legalisation is that the transactions should be assessed to a greater extent according to the objective nature of the case on the basis of the circumstances of the case. One such case, where a company was in the law on tax evasion, was in 2014, which the case-rapporteur has already referred to as the ConocoPhillips case or the Tangen judgment. The case was decided in the Supreme Court and finally went to ConocoPhillips’ favour, although many were rightly critical of this. Otherwise, on a day of joy — in which tax avoidance rules are laid down — it is a pleasure that the Stortinget facilitates the continuation of the practice of the judgment, which was, of course, strongly criticised.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-07.ana.ud580e129	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-07.ana.ud580e146	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-07.ana.ud580e162	At the request of the Finance Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, there will be a reply to replies from members of the government, and those who have to subscribe to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-07.ana.ud580e169	The background to this matter is a central party proposal on the position of cash in society, and I would like to thank the Cooperation Committee. Cash has an important role in society, and consumers should be able to pay with cash in situations where we have a legitimate expectation of it, and where appropriate. The government has announced that they will investigate any legislative amendment to the Financial Contracts Act that strengthens or clarifies cash payment, and return to the Storting appropriately. The majority therefore believe that the intention of this bill is respected in the job already announced by the government and will therefore not support the proposal. How far the right to cash payment should go and how these limits should be drawn should, in our view, be carefully assessed and in conjunction with the many areas where payments are made today. For example, there is no cash payment in online shops or when renting an electric car outside Stortinget. Put on the tip: Setting up vending machines on Voi and Lime is hardly a forward-looking solution. As pointed out in the Committee's position, cash is less and less used in today's society. Seamless digital payment methods via mobile or bank cards have led to simplification for both businesses and customers. In 2015, Norway’s Bank reported that banknotes and coins in circulation totaled slightly over 50 billion. kr. In 2018, the value was about 45 billion. kr. The arrows pointed downwards for the use of cash in Norway as digital developments progressed. Finally, I would like to refer to the work done by the Bank of Norway in connection with a digital central bank currency. I believe that this work is important and should be prioritised in the continuation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-07.ana.ud580e182	This case deals with a proposal to amend the law in financial contracts in relation to the consumer’s right to pay in cash. The starting point should still be for consumers to have the right to pay with cash, and there may be a need to strengthen or clarify this right in certain situations. At the same time, the right to settle cash cannot be waived. For example, there is little practical use of cash settlement in online trading. The length of the right to settle cash and, where appropriate, the precision that should apply, therefore need to be looked at more closely. Work is in progress on this. Cash has an important role in society. Consumers should pay with cash in situations where they have a direct expectation of it and where appropriate. Many older people, for example, prefer cash, and many tourists also expect to be able to pay with cash in our country. Both tradition, privacy and security challenges in new technologies can be arguments for the continued use of cash in the future, while a number of concerns speak in the opposite direction. The Labour Party believes, therefore, that the proposers do not take into account all the dilemmas and pre- and counter-arguments that cash usage in today's society travels. The use of cash has fallen relative to GDP and final consumption expenditure, but still represents a relatively large proportion of the translation and number of transactions. Cash consumption in today's society raises many issues and considerations, including: between the concerns of the business community and consumers, which I was in the business of. Organisations such as LO and NHO have pointed to challenges related to cash and undeclared work, and the security of additions such as: travel life and trade in goods must also be the subject of a warehousing. It is very good that a joint committee refers to Norway's Bank's distribution of digital central bank money. It is an important and necessary work that must be given priority in the future. I hereby accept that the Workers' Party is a part of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-07.ana.ud580e197	The representative Ingrid Heggø has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-07.ana.ud580e202	Me and the Progress Party share the Centre's commitment that it will be possible to use cash in the future as well. Cash definitely has an important place in society today, although the use of cash has declined in recent years. At the same time, the use of electronic account money has increased. Cash has a long history in Norway, and the benefits of cash are largely the same today as when the money system went bad. They provide immediate and final settlement without being dependent on third parties or electronic systems, and they are easy to use for everyone. In addition, the freedom of choice between cash and account money contributes to maintaining a competition between them and gives the consumer the freedom of choice to choose what is the best overall result for him or her. Where we might disagree with the proposers and their comments, it seems like they think it's the big community that somehow decided that the use of cash should go down, that it's a politically crazy act that cash should lose ground. That's not right. It is social development that has led to cash being used less and account money being more, and there is a development that needs to be considered primarily as a good. For most people it is definitely easier to use the debit or credit card, but of course it should not be at the expense of those who want to use the cash. As I pointed out, competition and not least freedom of choice for the individual consumer are also important in this area. I feel that more and more people contact me, and certainly also other politicians, with information that they are not being used cash for different types of settlement. It's not acceptable. Cash is a compulsory means of payment and must also be in the future. It is not optional to accept cash or not. I would encourage all those who meet this issue to contact the Consumer Protection Authority. The more people who do, the more likely it is that this is being taken up. Finally, I would like to say that I share the Minister of Justice's assessment in his reply to the Committee that this is a problem that deserves a more thorough process than a representative proposal. I therefore hope that the government will start that work quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-07.ana.ud580e215	The proposal of the centre party on cash, on strengthening people's ability to get paid in cash, and that it should also have consequences if you do not facilitate people's ability to pay in cash, is a special important proposal. Although cash is a compulsory means of payment in Norway, more and more people experience that they are not allowed to settle cash – that it is becoming harder for them to settle cash. One sees hotels that market themselves as cash-free, one sees restaurants, and one sees other companies. The latest is Vy. This week there was a look-up in the Telen newspaper in Telemark about grandparents who had to drive six miles to their grandchild, who had the money to pay for a bus ticket, but who did not get to go on the bus and pay, because one refused to accept cash. This intervenes in people's everyday lives in Norway every day. The government has had plenty of opportunities to make its own suggestions, but has trained and pushed it out in time. Once the Central Party has brought this up, once again after time, one has said that we need to consider this in more detail, we need to get back to it. When the Central Party proposed this in parallel with the consideration of the financial market communication in ours, the feedback from the majority of the Financial Committee was that this is an interesting proposal; we need to spend a little more time in the Committee. And then when you go into the proposal in committee, you say no, we're not going to go into the proposal anyway, we have to push it further out in time – into a new process, into the new Financial Agreement Act, which takes winter and spring and is constantly shifting. Meanwhile, people in everyday life feel that they are not allowed to care for their needs. Of course, many people use electronic payment solutions in their everyday lives, but we have to have a society that is organized for everyone, both with the freedom of choice that cash gives, and with the readiness that cash gives. When Vipps is down on 17 May, when web banks are down, when other electronic payment systems are not reliable in many situations, many people feel secure in cash. That security is important for us to strengthen, and there must be consequences when one does not follow up. I would like to ask the Government to act now – do not delay it again, to new processes, new investigations. Our proposal also provides room for flexibility to find practical solutions, but we need to strengthen people's ability to pay with cash. One has waited long enough now. I'm addressing the proposal from the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-07.ana.ud580e230	The representative of Sigbjørn Gülsvik has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-07.ana.ud580e235	Times change. There's nothing wrong with that. Now we're very many people who almost never use cash. In my own case, I rarely think about what form the money comes in. What I'm concerned about is that they're better distributed among people, so we get less differences in power and wealth. This proposal for a representative does not address that, but I am nevertheless pleased that it is coming up, and I would like to thank the representatives of the Central Party for that. We're using less and less cash. In the 1960s was 20 pst. of money supply bills and coins, and now the number is down to 2 pst. Many of us have a daily life in which it is clearly most practical to pay in ways other than cash. Nevertheless, cash, as we know it today, is important. The proposal states that it leads to practical problems when shops and others do not accept cash as a means of payment. We often think that there is a group, like small children and the elderly, that needs to use cash, but both small children and the elderly become increasingly digitally competent, so these practical problems are not the main reason why we have to keep cash. The principal strength of cash is also not that they are physical, such as today's practical coins and notes. The important thing about cash is that they have special features that the account money lacks. They are a compulsory means of payment that we always have the right to use, without the store or other sellers being able to deny us that. They also let you pay in a way that is anonymous and non-traceable, and the existence of physical cash is important for emergency purposes, as many central banks have stressed. But then maybe the most important thing comes with cash: cash is produced by the government, by the Bank of Norway. It's a public task to produce a safe, risk-free asset and means of payment to the Norwegian people, but today this is just 2 pst. of the amount of money. Where do the remaining 98 pst come from? from then? It's digital account money, created by private banks. This explained the Vice-Chairman Jon Nicolaisen in his lecture at the Norwegian Academy of Sciences in 2017: «So how do banks create money? The answer to that question is quite surprising for most people. When you take up loans from a bank, the bank places the loan in your account. The deposit – the money – is created by the bank when the loan is granted. It does not collect the money from another person's account, or from a vault filled with cash. The money the bank borrows you, it's created itself – out of nothing." And what does that mean? Well, that means that private banks are increasingly deciding what new money in society is spent on when they decide what they're lending. And we know that today, there's a lot of housing you lend to, which leads to an increase in housing prices, increased debt and increased financial instability. I'm addressing the suggestions that SV is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-07.ana.ud580e253	The representative, Mr Foss, then mentioned the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-07.ana.ud580e258	Cash as a means of payment is something many are concerned about, and I want to be quite clear that the government has no plans to make Norway cash-free. I have a lot of understanding that someone sees the need or prefers to use cash. In some situations it is also easy to pay with cash. A very serious argument is that cash can be important to ensure preparedness and social security in Norway. We must have solutions to ensure that we can obtain the necessary goods and services even where the usual payment solutions do not work. There are many arguments to secure the position of cash in Norway. However, most of us put our money in the bank, and instead of paying cash, we would like to pay with plastic cards, Vipps, giro, etc. These are cheap payment solutions and for many of us often easier than using cash. The right to pay with cash cannot apply without limit, and we must not hinder the development of effective trade solutions. As I see it, we consumers should be able to pay for us with cash where we have a legitimate expectation of it, but we cannot have it this way in any situation where we buy a good or a service. Network trade is a nearby example. I agree with the intention of the representative proposal that we must continue a right for consumers to use cash and that there may be a need to strengthen or clarify this right. However, the rules on cash payments raise some complex questions about the scope and content, and the different considerations have to be carefully considered before we can decide on what is the best regulation. The government has announced, inter alia: in the financial market communication of the year, that we will address these issues and take a closer look at the rules on the right to cash payment after the work on the new Financial Contracts Act. On the basis of that, I agree with the vote of the majority of the committee not to adopt the proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-07.ana.ud580e272	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-07.ana.ud580e277	I noticed that the Council of State said that the government has no ambition that Norway will be cash-free. That's good. The problem is that there are a number of establishments in Norway that market themselves with that ambition. It is also state-owned companies that market themselves with that ambition. The last one is vy, as there have been more queries about the later days. And when the representative Bjørnstad says it's not acceptable if people can't settle with cash, what does the Council of State mean? Is it acceptable that teenagers who have cash to make up for a bus ticket cannot join the bus, but must wait for grandparents who are many miles away?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-07.ana.ud580e282	I perceive from this debate that there is broad consensus, unanimity, in the assessment of the importance of the role of cash in Norwegian society. It is a compulsory means of payment, and, of course, companies, including governments, have a responsibility to comply with the requirements of this. The Minister of Justice has now announced that he will go through this thoroughly in the work of the new Financial Contracts Act, in order to ensure a good and sound balance of the various considerations to be taken. But the government is quite clear about the importance of cash, the position of cash, and has no plans to make changes to it, rather on the contrary, we want to make better arrangements, so that anyone who needs to use cash gets the opportunity, where appropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-07.ana.ud580e287	Now I ask first of all what is the current situation in existing legislation. Cash is a compulsory means of payment in Norway. At the same time, there are a number of companies, both restaurants, hotel chains and publicly owned companies, that market themselves as cash-free, who refuse to settle their customers with cash. Is this in line with current Norwegian law? And what will the government do to protect people's ability to pay with cash?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-07.ana.ud580e292	I don't see any reason why the Center Party should be so indignant in this case, because we all agree on the importance that companies should be able to facilitate compliance with Norwegian law, follow the practice that is, and recognise that cash is a compulsory means of payment. This means that this needs to be followed in a thorough and proper way, as the Minister of Justice has also warned in his letter to the Stortinget, and we are going to follow this up in the work of a new Financial Agreement law.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-07.ana.ud580e297	I record that I have still not received an answer to the question I am asking regarding the existing Norwegian law. Some of the problem that we are just addressing in our proposal is that existing law does not work well enough, that it does not have a consequence when companies and other actors in Norwegian society do not facilitate people to pay with cash. That's why it's urgent. After all, the new Financial Contracts Act has been pushed back several times. When is it really the new Financial Contracts Act to come and one in the Council's reality sees that people's right to pay with cash is to be respected? Will it go winter and spring, and will it be so that cash in practice is liquidated as a means of payment in Norway, while a waits for the government to fall asleep to submit a new law?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-07.ana.ud580e302	Once again, I'm asking the Center Party to put it a little bit more precisely. No one's sleeping with this. The work on designing a new Financial Contracts Act is in full swing. However, I believe it would be totally irresponsible to adopt this simply by means of a representative proposal, all the time when the Minister of Justice has been so clear on the need to properly investigate and assess this. This needs to be framed, this needs to be weighed. I'm absolutely sure most people agree that we have to do this properly. At the same time, however, it is very clear that cash is a compulsory means of payment, and that it should be provided for the possibility to pay with cash where it is natural and appropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-07.ana.ud580e307	It is important and good to make it clear that the government is quite clear that we are not going to have a cash-free society. It's very good to hear, not least from the point of view of preparedness and society. So it's just common sense, what we're talking about. That's wise. We have a development in which the cash is squeezed away as a means of payment in a number of situations, including in publicly owned companies. What is my question then is how does the Council of State assess progress so far in view of what she has said about not having a cash-free society, and that it is important for preparedness and society that this is a means of payment. Would the Council of State be able to answer yes that it is important in the review of the law that a person turns around, so that a person does not go towards a cash-free society, but on the contrary recognizes the role of cash as a means of payment everywhere?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-07.ana.ud580e314	I think I've been quite clear about what the government's view of cash is, both because it's a compulsory means of payment, and because it's important in an emergency context. However, this development is not something that Norwegian authorities, either big business or government, have ordered. It occurs as a result of a change in behaviour by consumers. It also makes it more challenging, because there are fewer and fewer people who want to spend cash in many different contexts. But that should not prevent us from securing the role of cash in the situation we are. It is a little difficult for Norwegian authorities to prevent people from using electronic solutions when it is in the direction of societal development. But again, we are quite clear that we do not have any plans to make Norway cash-free, rather on the contrary, because it is also important for our preparedness.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-07.ana.ud580e319	To be quite clear: the centre party is advised to use electronic payment arrangements. That's not what we're talking about. We are fully aware of what technological developments are, and we are fully aware of the individual's preference for the way in which one will pay. But the public has the responsibility in this developing dilemma to provide clarification, so that it becomes a practice for one to use cash, which will be absolutely necessary in the situation described by the Council of State, namely in terms of preparedness and social security. It is, of course, the responsibility of society, it is the authorities, it is the responsibility of the government and the Storting through the necessary legislative changes to ensure that the dilemma we are now seeing is minimised. I do understand the Council of State in this way – I ask the question again – that she now wants to turn the direction, so that it becomes clearer from the government and from the Storting that cash should be approved as a means of payment in all situations.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-07.ana.ud580e324	It is absolutely right that it is the responsibility of the public to regulate this. It is precisely what the Minister of Justice has just said in a letter to the Committee that we should go through this in order to find an appropriate way to regulate this which responds to the developments we see in society, while at the same time meeting the overall need, namely the position of cash in Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-07.ana.ud580e330	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-07.ana.ud580e349	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to three lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-07.ana.ud580e358	Norway has historically been one of the leading maritime nations in the world. As these developments progressed, welfare arrangements for seafarers have also been developed. In 1909, for example, The National Maritime Fund established, and a used initially the interest of this fund for pensions. In 1948 the pension scheme for seafarers was established, and this law has been amended a number of times as a result of adaptations to, among others. changes in public health. Today, Stortinget deals with a change in the law to further adapt the scheme to the principle of pension reform – and another point: Law changes its name and becomes gender neutral. Seafarers are, in this law, called workers at sea. The most important change proposed is that in new law the ignition time will be changed from today's 12.5 years to 3 years. In addition, the withdrawal age is changed. Today's general rule of 60 is now being changed to a lower age of 62, and the upper age of withdrawal is 70. After a new scheme, withdrawals may take place flexibly from 62 years to 80 years, but the minimum payment period shall be seven years. Today's two-level system, superior and subordinate, is going to change to an equal percentage of gross wages and salaries. In addition, the fishing company is treated in the same way as other shipping companies when it is liable for payment under the scheme. It has a broad consensus in the committee, in the expert committee that has worked on the distribution, and among the hearing parties on most of this change. In one field, there is still a little bit of disunity, i.e. whether you want to have a 7,1 G or 12 G ignition for your members. Here the opposition and a number of 7,1 G organisations landed, while the government party and the majority in the expert selection will have 12 G and a percentage of 6.3. I'm assuming that the opposition will explain its vision, we're going to land at 12 G because this ensures the best relationship between what one pays into the scheme and what one gets out of the scheme. A transitional system has also been proposed to ensure that those who are 50 years of age or older when the scheme enters into force comply with current legislation. A minority in the Committee would make the transitional arrangements even more flexible and optional, but the majority would like to set a limit of 50 years. I would like to thank the Committee for the cooperation around the work on a new pension scheme for workers at sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-07.ana.ud580e375	First of all, thank you to the President-in-Office for explaining the matter well, which is overly mature. Both employers and employees were clearly aware of this when the committee held a hearing. On the employee side, it is primarily about getting a pension scheme that is perceived as fair. It's not like that today. As the rapporteur said, the minimum seagoing service period to receive a pension is 12,5 years, and this has resulted in many people not having received a pension even though both the employee and the employer have paid for the scheme. The requirement for 12.5 years of earnings combined with the requirement for 10 years of seagoing service after the age of 40 has made it only 25 pst. by those paying into the scheme who are qualified at retirement age to receive a pension. If pension schemes are to be seen as fair, there is a certain similarity between what you pay for and what you get out. This injustice is now corrected by reducing the minimum vesting time to three years. All parties agree on this. But there are a couple of other injustices that can be experienced well as great, which will continue to exist with the government and the bulk of the population's proposals. The first and most important one relates to the performance itself. As it appeared at the hearing, the government proposes a performance rate of 6.3 pst. of revenue up to 12G. 12G now accounts for approx. 1.2 million. kr. There is a pay level far above what is common to seafarers, and such a device will favor the high-wage. The Norwegian Maritime Association, in its consultation opinion, shows that the main gravity of seafarers has a salary between 6G and 8G. For minors, the level is somewhere between 4G and 7G, while very few have a salary that exceeds 10G. Therefore, employee organisations want an increase in earnings and lower ceilings of 7,5 pst, respectively. and 7.1G. The Workers' Party agrees that it provides the scheme with a better and fairer redistribution profile and supports that proposal. The last injustice concerns those who are members of the scheme and are 50 years or older when a new scheme enters into force. Here the government proposes that they continue to comply with today's legislation, but it may give some quite unreasonable results. These are people who may have many years in their working life but are thus excluded from the new pension scheme. Some of them may actually experience, because of short sea shipping hours, that new employees of the same age can get a much better pension than they do. This injustice can easily be corrected by the fact that those who are 50 years of age or older can choose whether to follow old or new schemes. I address the proposals that the Workers' Party is involved in.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-07.ana.ud580e390	The representative Lise Christoffersen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-07.ana.ud580e395	The Ministry’s proposal is based on NOU 2014: 17, Pension scheme for workers at sea. What happened then was that the three mariners’ organisations – Norsk Sjømannsförbund, Norsk Sjøoffisersförbund and the Norwegian Association of Engineers – were in favour of a minority proposal with a higher profit percentage and a lower ceiling, which Lise Christoffersen has well justified. The percentage of earnings supported by the Centre Party, which is equal to that of the Workers' Party, is higher – not 6,3 pst., as proposed by the Government and the majority, but 7,5 pst. – but at the same time one has a lower roof, from 12G to 7.1G. We know that 1G is approximately NOK 100,000, so 12G, as the representative Lise Christoffersen said, would be $12 million. kr. There are very few who get to the high level. When the three organizations agreed to the proposal, which the Center Party supports, their argument was that it would give a greater redistribution, be fairer and easier to be accepted by the main weight of those working at sea. It's crucial and important arguments for the Center Party, to which we subscribe. That is why we join the minority and have comments and suggestions together with the Workers' Party and SV in the case. We also agree that one must be able to choose the old order. We therefore propose, together with the same parties, that Section 30 of the Act be replaced by the following: «Workers who, at the date of entry into force of the Chapter, have reached the age of 50 years may choose whether to continue to earn in accordance with the rules of Chapter III or Chapter X.»
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-07.ana.ud580e407	I should not spend a very long time doing things for the opposition's vision, which we in SV are involved in. It's very clearly done for both in comments and by previous speakers. I would just like to comment that there are also child supplements in the old pension scheme that have been taken away. Not specifically mentioned. There is no SV for, but we have chosen to impose our forces on the proposal that has been made, because it is more important. But we hadn't done all the rest in the same way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-07.ana.ud580e412	In the proposal under consideration today, the government is proposing amendments to the Law on Retirement for Seafarers. The pension scheme for seafarers is a compulsory pension scheme for workers on board Norwegian ships. It is financed on an ongoing basis by employees and employers, and the scheme has a State guarantee. The law was passed in 1948 and has been amended several times later. In the context of the pension reform ten years ago, it was announced that it was necessary to look into the Law on Retirement for Seafarers. At kgl.res. of 19 April 2013, a sample was set up to provide post-employment benefit for NOU 2014: 17, a new pension scheme for workers at sea. The proposal in the proposal is based on the decision of the Marine Pensions Committee. It provides a modernised and simplified pension scheme, well adapted to the pension reform and occupational pension schemes in the private sector. The proposal is intended to be cost-neutral for the parties to the arrangement as a whole and will not involve increased government expenditure. The State guarantee shall be continued. Seafarer pension benefits are now converted from a qualification and early retirement scheme for the period between 60 and 67 years into an supplementary pension scheme for a certain number of years. Many of today's qualification requirements are changed and ensure that a significantly higher proportion of members are entitled to a pension. Today has 75 pst. by all those who pay a premium, not entitled to a pension. The service period for entitlement to a pension is reduced from today's 12.5 years to 3 years. New schemes involve an annual generation, all-year model, of a pension holding with a performance rate as a percentage of own income up to a ceiling of 12G. This is in line with other public and private occupational pension schemes. The extraction rules are based on neutral principles, i.e.: the basis on which pension stocks are used for the calculation of an annual pension regardless of the time of withdrawal. The pension is curtailed against disability benefits and redundancy benefits from social security. There is no coordination with other benefits. The funding model is continued, i.e.: the current financing of pension expenditure. Profits are added to a regulatory fund and deficits are covered by the fund. The employee’s pension tax is calculated from income up to 12G. The employer's pension tax is calculated by all income earned by the employee, as at present. A new arrangement will apply to those who are added after the entry into force of the law and to those who at that time have not reached the age of 50. Employees who, at the date of entry into force, have reached the age of 50 are continuing on the current system. The proposal provides stronger labour incentives and facilitates better mobility between maritime industries and other industries. The new scheme provides pension payments for all the years worked by the employee, even after the first possible age of retirement.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-07.ana.ud580e435	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-07.ana.ud580e440	I want to ask the Council of State a question that concerns those who are 50 years old and older when a new scheme comes into force. Seafarers' pension schemes have figures showing the number of seafarers over 50 per day who are still sailing and who have not retired. So there are as many people as 7798, which is almost 8,000 people. Of these, 6,530 are between 50 and 60 years old, and 1,268 are over 60 years old. I wonder if the Council of State really thinks it's fair that up to 8 000 seafarers can actually risk getting into a situation where people who are employed after them, but who are the same age, and who may even work for a shorter time than them, can get a higher pension than those who are already in service, after old arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-07.ana.ud580e449	I understand that the question is being asked. The challenge of being able to give the freedom of choice that one could wish to give in isolation is that it will present significant administrative challenges related to information on the rules for managing cross-cutting pension opportunities in the two different systems, and therefore different systems of divergence, both for workers and employers. There will also be conversion problems. What has been common so far in the conversion of the different schemes has been that they have been kept out of those who have ten years or less left; they remain in old order. In this way, we continue that practice also in the conversion of this scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-07.ana.ud580e459	I thank you for the answer and record that the administration is more important than the future pensioners. I would like to ask a question related to what the rapporteur on behalf of the government parties said in his post: that the choice that the government has made, 12G and 6.3 pst., gives the best relationship between what you pay in and what you get out. Does the Council of State agree with that claim, or does the Council of State agree more with the employees' organisations, which indicates that their proposals actually provide a fairer distribution profile, because it takes account of the large number of seafarers on ordinary wages?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-07.ana.ud580e468	It is not a clear response from employee organisations. As you can see from the hearing opinions, there are also large employee organisations that have no objections to following the majority’s position. In the other occupational pension schemes that we have, it's 12G that's taken into account, so this is going to be equal to the other schemes. I believe that it will strengthen the labour incentives, and it will also give you a greater relationship between what you earn and what you pay for, and what you get into retirement. So it's not right that it's for administration's sake that we're proposing this. There are many reasons for this — including the fact that it will provide both an unpredictable and unpredictable pension situation for individuals. There are many different reasons why it would be very complicated and unwieldy for all parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-07.ana.ud580e475	I thank you for your answer. It is a perfectly legitimate position to have one who places more emphasis on the pension entitlements of the high-wage pensioners than on the rights of those who have lower wages. The working party does not agree with such a starting point. I noticed that the Council of State said that favoring them with the highest wages helps to strengthen the labour incentives. I would like to explain that a little bit more clearly, because it became a little difficult for me to understand. It should have been the other way around — that if the large number of seafarers had been given better pension rights than the government has provided, it would have strengthened labour incentives, not the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-07.ana.ud580e491	The conversion we're doing now is an important and correct conversion, just to make sure that very many of the people who are part of the plan actually get a pension. Most people today don't get a pension. They pay in without getting anything out again. Now we make sure that 100 pst. receive a pension. Previously, it was 75 pst. who didn't. I think it's right to base 12G, because then you're going to get a payoff for a larger part of the income. A lot of people would get less money with the minority's suggestions. I also think it is an argument that this system is now being made similar to other arrangements that have been put in place. There will be a better relationship between the different pension schemes. It will also improve and promote the mobility of the different sectors, and I think that is an independent point. The more similar the arrangements are, the simpler they will be.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-07.ana.ud580e500	The cord shift is over. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-07.ana.ud580e508	So today's map is ready to debate. The store is taking a break, and according to the announced agenda it will be voting at 0 p.m. 14th @item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-07.ana.ud580e527	The size is then ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-07.ana.ud580e539	During the debate, Mr Gülsvik presented a proposal on behalf of the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked by the government in future propositions that may have an impact on the competitive situation of Norwegian business, and otherwise, where relevant, to assess whether the submitted is in Norwegian interest and to include it in the chapter ‘Economic and administrative impact’. Red is in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-07.ana.ud580e692	It's going to go above the heading of the laws and laws at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-07.ana.ud580e702	Law decisions will be passed until a second time in a future meeting of the Stortinge.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-07.ana.ud580e733	A total of four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Ingrid Heggø on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green and Red Environmental Party proposal No 2, from Sigbjørn Gælsvik on behalf of the Center Party proposal No 3 and 4, by Solvency Skagvoll Foss on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party First, the proposal No. 3 and 4 from the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to step up its efforts to strengthen the official production of means of payment and to establish a digital means of payment for the public, issued by the Bank of Norway’. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to unravel the possibility of digital account and payment solutions provided by the public and whether blockade technology may be appropriate in this respect.’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-07.ana.ud580e767	Proposal No. 1, from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks for the role and position of the cash, including an assessment of the right to pay in cash against the wishes of economic operators to act in cash and to return to the Storting appropriately’.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-07.ana.ud580e789	Alternatively, between the recommendation of the Committee and proposal No. 2nd from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘I In Law 25 June 1999 No. 46 on financial agreements and tasks are amended as follows: [[the Financial Contracts Act;]] Paragraph 38, third paragraph, is replaced by the following: a consumer is always entitled to make settlements with the payee with forced means of payment, including in all the payee's branches, in sales vehicles, on board or wholly close to the point of entry to the means of transport and in other equivalent places. [[3]] The Court of First Instance is inevitable except for amounts exceeding the amounts laid down in the first paragraph of Section 5 of the Money Laundering Act. Paragraph 91, first paragraph, first sentence, is replaced by the following: The person who infringes § 14, § 38, third paragraph, § 55, second paragraph or § 46 is punished by fines or in particularly aggravating circumstances with imprisonment up to three months. II The law shall enter into force immediately.’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-07.ana.ud580e825	Since more people in the room have made a mistake, I repeat the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-07.ana.ud580e844	During the debate, two proposals were put forward by Lise Christoffersen on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. First of all, there will be a vote on proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox The proposal reads as follows: «In Act No. 3 December 1948 No. 7 on the pension scheme for seafarers is amended as follows: Paragraph 30, second paragraph, is replaced by the following: Workers who, at the date of entry into force of the Chapter, have reached the age of 50 years may choose whether to continue to earn in accordance with the rules laid down in Chapter III or Chapter X.» The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-07.ana.ud580e1076	First, there is a vote over Section 35, second paragraph, last sentence. Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-07.ana.ud580e1090	There will be further voting between § 33 of the recommendation and proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «In Act No. 3 December 1948 No. 7 on the pension scheme for seafarers is amended as follows: Paragraph 33 is replaced by the following: § 33 Pension stock – retirement and retirement pension calculation The annual pension is calculated on the basis of an up-to-date pension stock. Pension stocks are built up by the sum of annual service provision, which represents 7,5 per cent of employee’s gross income on board. For employees employed on board vessels engaged in fishing and fishing, annual service represents 7,5 % of gross income on board, advance on lot and draw. Pension provision is provided after the second and third subparagraphs up to and including the month when the employee reaches the age of 70. Income up to 7.1 times the basic amount provides service provision. Performance is continuous, with effect from the date of effect. Income from service time referred to in the second sentence of the second paragraph of Section 32 does not provide a basis for service provision’. The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-07.ana.ud580e1135	And then the rest of the Romartals and the sections of the recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-07.ana.ud580e1145	The title of the law and the promise are then added to the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-07.ana.ud580e1155	The law decision will be passed until a second time in a future meeting of the Stortinge.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-11-07.ana.ud580e1186	This means that today's maps are ready. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
