ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e66	The representatives of Kari Kjønaas Kjos, Fredric Holen Bjørdal and Petter Eide, who have been licensed, have once again taken their seats. The following called alternates are now taking their seat: For East-Agder counties: Arne Thomassen For Akershus County: Liv Gustavsen For the Province of Buskerud: Sigrid Simensen Ilsøy For Hordaland County: Laila Reiertsen For the Mora and Romesdal counties: Simon Molvær Grimstad For the Nordic counties: Marius Meisfjord Jösevold For Uppland State: Kari-Anne Jønnes For Sogn and Fjordane County: Hilmar Höl For Telemark County: Olav Urbø For Sør-Trøndelag: Pål Sture Nilsen For Eastfold County: Monica Carmen Gåsvatn An application for exemption from the meeting of the alternate of the county of Akershus, Mani Hussaini, is made for the remainder of the representative Nina Sandberg's leave to meet in Stortinget due to parental leave. This application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Other alternate for Akershus County, Elisabeth Fanghol, is proposed to meet during the leave period. – It is also considered to be adopted. Elisabeth Fanghol is present and will take the seat. Two permit applications are available: by the Group of the Party of European Socialists on sick leave of the representative Åshild Bruun-Gundersen from 5 February onwards and until further notice, from the Left Group on the Permit of Representative Abid Q. Raja from 6 February to 8 February to attend the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly in Paris On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: These applications shall be dealt with without delay and shall be accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the period of leave as follows: For the Aust-Agder province: Ingelinn Lossius-Skeie : 5 February and until further notice For Akershus County: Solveig Schytz : 6-7 February
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e189	Ingelinn Lossius-Skeie is present and will take the seat. The representative of Arild Grande will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e196	On behalf of the representatives of Jonas Gahr Støre, Hadia Tajik, Lise Christoffersen, Eigil Knutsen and myself, I am delighted to propose the inclusion of the ILO's core conventions in the Human Rights Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e201	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. From the Prime Minister's office there is the following letter to Stortinget, dated 1 February 2019: ‘Changes among State Secretaries State Council was held at Oslo Castle on 1 February 2019 at 2.30 p.m. 1100 under the direction of His Majesty the King. The following decision was adopted: Mr Guro Angell Gimse is appointed State Secretary to the State Council, Mr Anniken Hauglie, Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs.’ The referenced letter shall be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e230	Let me first thank you for the opportunity to explain the accident with the frigate KNM “Helge Ingstad”. The accident has been a great burden for the crew and for the entire Marine Defense Force. In addition, there are negative impacts on the operational capability of the defence. I now want to provide a broad information on the matter. The government attaches great importance to providing the Storting with as full and up-to-date information as possible — including on the ongoing follow-up actions undertaken. As is known, the ‘Helge Ingstad’ collided with the tanker ‘Sola TS’ at the Sture Terminal in Auggarden at 0 p.m. 04.03 Thursday 8 November last year. The frigate was badly injured and began to take in water. After the collision, the frigate control lost control on steering and propulsion. Then the ground support of the ship on shallow water sank in half. Personnel were evacuated and quickly taken care of by the Defense, according to established emergency management procedures. Attempts to ensure that the vessel does not sink, unfortunately, did not result in the securing being released, so that most of the vessel was submerged. The tanker ‘Sola TS’ suffered only minor damage and left Norwegian waters on Saturday 10 November after the necessary investigations were carried out by the State Emergency Commission and the police. Thanks to good crisis management, a well-trained crew and some luck, the accident did not cause any serious personnel damage. After the accident, the team has been closely followed by the Maritime Defense and has been back to work and familiarisation with the KNM Roald Amundsen, the sister ship of Helge Ingstad. They have gradually resumed their functions and have completed the voyage of ‘Roald Amundsen’. My impression after meeting the crew the week after the accident was that they had been followed up in a good way and were well cared for by the Maritime Defense Department. The marine defense has provided a preliminary report on their work with the follow-up of the personnel involved in the accident. The report covers, inter alia: procedures, learning points and experience, and is considered valuable for other units in the Defence Office which have the same types of tasks. The accident has so far not resulted in serious contamination. The action to combat acute pollution is managed by the Coastal Plant and the frigate has been largely drained from sources of pollution. The cooperation between the Coast Guard and the Naval Defence Agency has worked very well. The frigate was set up with full weapons equipment. This has not posed a risk to the environment, but parts of the load of weapons have been removed in order not to create increased risks and unforeseen obstacles during the rescue operation. There has been a continuous watch to ensure the safety of the vessel. In the weeks following the accident, questions were raised relating to the sharing of information. I would therefore like to emphasise again that neither the Ministry of Defence nor the Defence Department has had, or has, comprehensive information about the course of events themselves or the cause of the collision. In line with the legislation, the defense has provided all documentation to the State Emergency Commission and the police, who are responsible for investigating and investigating such incidents. As a result, the State Emergency Commission and the police have the most comprehensive information on these issues. The State Emergency Commission investigates matters which are presumed to have an impact on the prevention of transport accidents but shall not settle civil or criminal liability. The State Emergency Commission is responsible for investigating the accident. The State Emergency Commission on Defence also participates. In addition, the Maltese Civil Aviation Commission is a participant in the investigation, by virtue of being the flag State of the tanker. The marine defence investigation team conducts its own internal investigation into the accident, such as: look at the course of events, the legislation applicable to the mission, and how to avoid similar events in the future. The Marine Defense Investigation Group shall forward its findings to the State Disaster Commission. On 29 November last year, the State's accident commission published an interim report to provide information obtained during the initial phase of the investigation. The aim was to provide a brief update on progress and to provide a preliminary description of the course of events and to disseminate safety-critical findings already revealed at that time. The interim report also points to areas where further studies are needed and otherwise describes the progress of the process. The course of events is complicated and involves several actors and the interaction between these actors. The investigation process therefore requires a lot of time and resources. The State’s casualty commission stressed that the report was preliminary and could therefore contain errors and inaccuracies. In the interests of professional secrecy, classified material and the further investigation process, not all information was published at that time. The State Disaster Commission considered that the extent of damage and flooding of the ship after the collision do not correspond to the requirements of the ship class ship safety documents. As an annex to the interim report, the Commission therefore published a safety critical finding related to the watertight subdivision of the ship. The maritime defence and defence equipment, after consulting the classification society of the Norwegian Veritas GL, have implemented temporary measures on the other frigates to ensure the watertight integrity of the vessels and the navigability of the vessels. The measures prevent the transfer of water between the watertight compartments concerned and thus remedy the safety-critical conditions. Further work has been undertaken that will provide a permanent remedy for the deficiencies. This work is also done in dialogue with the Norwegian Veritas. A permanent solution is planned to be installed on all frigates by March this year. The State’s casualty commission preliminary analysis is that no single act or incident led to the accident but that the accident may be explained by a number of complex factors and circumstances. The Commission is working to identify and understand these factors. So far, there is no indication that the technical systems have not worked as they should before the collision. In addition, as mentioned above, the police are being investigated with a view to detecting any criminal offences. Until the State Emergency Commission and the police have submitted their final reports, causality and guilt issues must be considered to be unresolved. It may take some time to get all the facts out. For example, following the ‘Full City’ accident in 2009, it can be mentioned that final report was not available until 2013. Following the Turøy accident in 2016, final report was available in 2018. This says something about how complicated such investigations are. My point is that this is in the hands of the police and the Harvary Commission. The government and the defence sector cannot, and shall not, speculate in the course of events that led to the collision. However, after the collision we have been as open as possible about what has happened. The defense has held a number of press conferences with up-to-date information, and the defence website has been regularly updated. In addition, there have been many interviews and press conferences on the matter on which the defense has put up. In addition, on the first possible occasion, I gave a briefing to the Foreign and Defence Committee of the United Kingdom. With regard to the handling of this matter by the Defence Officer, the Chief of Defence shall be the Head of Unit responsible for the overall responsibility for ship security in the Defence. The Maritime Defence Manager is the operator of the Naval Defence Vessel and the head of the Defence Commander worked on behalf of the Defence Commander following the accident of ‘Helge Ingstad’. Defence equipment supports maritime defence in this work and cooperates closely with the maritime defence management. The budgets have entered into their own agreements detailing roles, responsibilities and powers throughout the operation. After the ship has been lifted, the Swedish Armed Forces will manage the work of preserving priority materials and equipment and assessing the technical condition of the ship. The work on preparing the rise of the Hagarist is now in its final phase. Work has been carried out on the installation of lifting chains, on the preparation of water evacuation and on the extraction of marine target missiles and torpedoes. In order to reduce the risk during the lifting operation, careful assessments have been made of the stability and method of discharge of the vessel for water. All torpedoes are now demolished. The remaining weapons on board the vessel will be removed once the frigate has been landed. The lifting process has taken longer than planned. The weather is the biggest challenge of implementation according to schedule and has been much of the cause of the delays we have seen in recent times. In order to carry out the cancellation as planned, it is necessary to be sufficiently stable, well-being over a period of one week. The prognosis now is that you look forward to starting this work on Thursday. In addition, there has been a stoppage of work as a result of an unwanted incident. A mooring to one of the companies involved smoked, and the rope fell on a ship's boat, fortunately without meeting personnel. This event was considered to have a high potential for injury and, together with Defence Equipment, suppliers have spent time evaluating and developing measures to avoid similar events in the further work on the cancellation. This event illustrates some of the challenge of the cancellation operation. The time course for the cancellation itself and therefore also for the entire rescue operation is still somewhat uncertain. After cancellation, protection and preservation of priority equipment and equipment deemed to be reusable will be immediately initiated. Once this work has been completed and the ship is secured, it will be transported to the Marinen Haacon Protection Base, where further investigations and assessments of the damage will be carried out. The maritime domain, and especially the northern seas, is of great importance for Norwegian security and defence policy. In order to safeguard Norwegian interests in the maritime domain, the Defence Force must be able to operate seagoing capabilities. The sea areas outside Norway are also strategically important for NATO and our allies, especially due to the proximity of the Russian base complexes and the Russian North Fleet of Kola. It is therefore also important in an allied context that the defence can operate at any time in the northern seas. The frigate structure is a central part of the capacity and of the overall operational structure of the defence. The frigates also play an important role in the reception of allied reinforcements. Due to a reduction in ship structure, the possibility of participation in the standing maritime strength structure of NATO and the other international operations is also reduced. This is unfortunate, especially in view of Norway’s strong emphasis on the importance of the maritime domain in the framework of NATO cooperation. The government's emphasis is on maintaining our commitments to NATO, despite the situation that has arisen. The material damage to Helge Ingstad is significant. A decision to repair or condemn the vessel may only be taken once the vessel has been raised and examined and the final damage has been identified. This assessment will form the basis for determining whether to repair the vessel and, where appropriate, how long this work will take. The defense has put down an internal group that looks closer to the disaster, so we can pick up the maximum amount of learning from the event. As a competent authority, defence equipment will carry out technical investigations to ensure that all relevant material safety aspects of the Nansen class and, where appropriate, other classes of ships are respected. In addition to the technical examination, the Defence Equipment will also undergo the rescue operation itself, focusing on the organisation, improvement of emergency plans, learning and improvement of competences, procedures and instructions. Such an accident raises several legal issues. The Ministry of Defence has established dialogue with the shipping company of the tanker and has put in place the necessary measures to ensure that the financial interests of the State are safeguarded and that any requirements resulting from the incident are dealt with in accordance with Norwegian law. Liability and guilt issues could not be addressed until the ship has been raised and the State Emergency Commission and police investigations have been completed. The scope of work and the total cost of raising and transporting ‘Helge Ingstad’, including environmental protection of the site, are characterised by many uncertainties. The cost of this work is currently estimated at half a billion kroner. It is planned to save and preserve materials that can be preserved. If it was decided not to repair ‘Helge Ingstad’, this material may be used on the other frigates. The extent of re-use will be based on a cost-benefit assessment. I will return to Stortinget when the costs of the rescue operation are further clarified and quality assured. The loss of ‘Helge Ingstad’ has significant operational implications. With one in five frigates inoperative, the overall operational capability of the defence has been reduced and the ability to have presence in priority areas is weakened over time. The government is committed to restoring lost operational capability. Within the framework of the defence itself, measures have already been taken to reduce the consequences, including: to sail one of the remaining frigates with double crew. This means that scheduled days of sailing for the frigate system are maintained in a short-term perspective of one to two years. The government has identified additional measures that can be implemented in the short term until durable solutions are in place. This includes the reacquisition of lost spare parts and the doubling of the number of herds on the logistic vessel KNM ‘Maud’ from one to two. The latter will increase the capacity to support the frigates, which in turn extends the operational availability of vessels. With such an increase, ‘Maud’ will also have the capacity to contribute to international operations. ‘Maud’ is planned to arrive in Norway in the middle of 2019. ‘Helge Ingstad’ sailed in the standing maritime strength of NATO at the time of the loss. For this reason the vessel had an additional spare part package on board. In addition to these two measures, replacement of lost weapons stocks is considered. The stock of weapons on board was part of Norway's preparedness stock. This recycling has a slightly longer time perspective and will be assessed in the budgets for the coming years. In 2019, the recovery of the spare part stock and the increase in the number of days sailing for KNM ‘Maud’ are initially only feasible. We will return to the revised national budget for 2019 with a final assessment of these measures and any allocation needs. However, the above actions will not restore the operational capability at the level it was before the loss of ‘Helge Ingstad’. Therefore, if repairing ‘Helge Ingstad’ would not be possible or economically appropriate, alternative, permanent measures would have to be considered. Assessments are already being made as to which such measures or combinations of measures could be relevant. Allierte countries have frigates with the operational capability of ‘Helge Ingstad’ both in use and during acquisition. However, renting one of these frigates is unlikely to be due to the operational needs of the other nations themselves. In addition, the rental of ships could pose major operational and competence challenges and this is therefore not considered appropriate. However, it may be possible to connect to ongoing frigate acquisitions in other allied countries. An option that can help compensate for the operational consequences of the loss of ‘Helge Ingstad’ is to operate a class of simpler surface fighting vessels in parallel with the remaining Nansen class frigates. Lifetime extension of Shield-class coastal corvettes will be considered, but these vessels do not have the same operational capacity as a frigate. Among other things, they lack anti-submarine and air protection capacity. It may therefore be necessary to assess the acquisition of another class of new seagoing vessels with better operational capabilities to compensate for the consequences of the loss. There are relevant on-going acquisition processes in allied countries and national countries. Another possible approach is to increase the number of submarines in the current Norwegian-German submarine acquisition. This will increase operational capability but will not fully compensate for the capacity of Helge Ingstad. The acquisition of several submarines will take time and will not produce operational effects until the year 2030. Another option is to increase the number of new maritime patrol planes, P-8. Such aeroplanes also cannot fully compensate for frigate capacity, but the acquisition of an additional number of aeroplanes will make a significant contribution to operational capability. This can be done by changing the current acquisition process and could give an operational effect from approx. 2025. The action will require further action at the Evene Aviation Station. The Ministry of Defence has started work on the next long-term plan for the defence sector, to be submitted to the Stortinget in 2020. Any investment in new material as a result of the loss will have a lead time of several years and must also be considered in conjunction with other proposed acquisitions, including the abovementioned Norwegian-German submarine acquisition and new maritime patrol aircraft. The consequence of the accident is a deterioration in the operational capabilities of the Maritime Defence and Defence Agency. Let there be no doubt whatsoever that the government will restore this ability. The maritime defence's ability to perform its tasks shall be restored. I will keep Stortinget informed about the further work on the matter, including coming back to the question of implementing the measures to restore operational capability.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e324	The President will now propose, according to Storting’s Rules of Procedure, Section 45, that a brief comment round be opened, limited to one post of up to 5 minutes from each party group and final statements from the Council of State. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e329	I will begin by expressing my sympathy and compassion for the KNM “Helge Ingstad”. The experience they've been through has affected us all, and I want to express joy that no one was seriously injured. I also hope that everyone is doing well now in retrospect. I feel safe about it, referring to what the Council of State said in its statement. The Secretary of Defense's statement is a description of an event that must be characterized as completely unique and special in our defence history. Of course errors can be made, in most cases also explained, and thus also understood. But it is, as the Minister of Defence also said in various ways, a very serious incident we are facing here. It is therefore absolutely necessary that the Council of State now present here in Stortinget. I would also like to say that it is time, almost three months after the crash. The loss of KNM 'Helge Ingstad' has caused a significant loss to our marines, as the Minister of Defence explained. Our defence capabilities have been reduced. Replacing it will take time and cost billions of dollars. I am recording all the plans that the Ministry of Defence has, as explained by the Council of State. We will expect the Council of State to come back to Stortinget with further information on how this should be handled in fact and in practice. Of course, there is every reason to give the Ministry some time to compensate and deal with this. Of course, the working party is set to discuss, on a proposal from the government, how the loss of KNM “Helge Ingstad” may be replaced and in what way. But I would already like to say clearly that, in our opinion, it is not right to finance such losses, such as the possible purchase of a new frigate or other relationship, in such a way that it conceals the costs. The costs have to be on the table. I assume that the defense makes an independent assessment of what the loss of the frigate represents of consequences for our defense, and of the economic consequences of this, and that the government comes back to the Stortinge with its own case about these conditions in what is called "an appropriate way". How could this happen? How could a top modern marine vessel collide with a tanker in a heavily monitored water and after several clear warnings that we have all heard? Of course, as the Council of State said, the Harvary Commission and the police are sitting here with a special responsibility, and we're waiting for their final report. But the preliminary report and the oral statements that we have heard from the Commission so far claim that the tanker was confused with land. If that's what I want to say, it's in case of information that raises more questions than it answers. I assume that the Harvari Commission is working as fast as possible. A search for scapegoats is neither correct nor necessary. But the Storting and the public must know the truth about what happened. System failures and any underlying causes of the accident are of particular importance for the Storing. With the exception of information relating to national security, all the Disaster Commission must arrive at must be made public, without reservation and without delay. Such transparency is necessary for the trust and legitimacy of the defence in the Grand Duchy and in the population. The work of raising the frigate is in progress as explained. I hope it's not like that, but there may be reason to fear that the ship is lost. This rescue work is not covered by the Commission’s mandate. There is a basis for suspecting that the first part of the rescue operation was not well planned. I therefore warn, on behalf of the Workers' Party, that there is a proposal for a representative on an external examination of the rescue work itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e350	First, I would like to thank the Minister of Defence for a thorough statement related to the loss of KNM ‘Helge Ingstad’. On 8 November 2018 was a sad day for the Norwegian defence, and it was a very sad day for the Navy. But on top of everything, we're going to be very happy that there was no loss of life, and it's reassuring to hear if the good follow-up personnel now get from the Maritime Defense, and that many are already operating. The frigate weapon is the carrybar of the Marine Defense. After many years of investment in spare parts and new crews, a frigate weapon was gradually acquired that was operational. Four out of five frigates sailed, and there was a significant improvement compared to a few years ago. The frigates play a key role in monitoring and raising the sovereignty of our seas, especially in the northern regions. The frigates are an important part of Norway's role as NATO in the north, and the loss of the frigate to which we have now been exposed reduces our operational capacity. There's no doubt about it. The operational capability cannot be replaced quickly. It was also clear to the Minister of Defence. However, it was reassuring to hear that remedial action will be taken, as far as possible, as soon as possible. I also noticed that the Minister repeated what the head of defence said in his annual talk in the Oslo Military Society, that it is now necessary to consider the life-long extension of other systems that are intended to be phased out, especially the coastal corvettes. A small country with seven times the size of our land area cannot afford to have a marine that is harm-rescue to the extent that the Marines are today. It is also reassuring to hear that the government will come back quickly, already in the revised national budget in spring 2019, and look into how to in detail try to compensate for the loss of this frigate. I also noticed that the minister was clear that the technical systems seem to have worked. It's a complex cause and, of course, the Storting is very excited about what the Disaster Commission comes up to is the real cause of this fatal accident, which is almost unreal in a ship's carcass that is one of Norway's most trafficked and best-attended.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e365	I would also like to start by thanking the Minister of Defence for a good presentation. You almost don't know where to start when you hear about this accident – it doesn't seem to understand. There's an accident you don't hear about anywhere, and that it was going to happen in Norway, it's pretty special. It is a tragic event for those involved and for the Defence, and a serious marine accident without a clear course of events and without a causal link. At that time it would not be unnatural that the defense ordered all its ships to berth. It didn't happen. This could have been done for safety reasons until the cause of the accident was identified and remedial measures were put in place. You have shown great care for the crew, and it is good that they are followed up. At the same time, however, it has not been felt that someone has been responsible. It's also special, and it's maybe typical of Norwegian. It's actually important that someone is responsible when such an accident happens, and when the cost framework is 4 billion. kr and so many people are involved. So you can ask the question, what would happen if there was a ferry that you collided with? As far as information is concerned, there was a near-accident not long in advance of this. Had it been a ferry and the frigate had been the winning party, you could imagine the consequences of it. So to the event, how was it possible not to discover the tanker? Was the frigate equipped with wrong sensors, or were they not in use? Was there anyone on the bridge who wasn't there? Yes, we shall find out, as the Minister of Defence explained. Navigational training procedures must be reviewed — some must observe and learn. Is the lack of basic maritime knowledge at the root of the accident? In this case, new training must be carried out by all persons operating ships in the Defence. As far as possible operational compensation for the lost frigate, completely independent of the form of financing, from which the representative of Kolberg was involved. For the Progress Party, it is most important to get operational compensation, not how to finance it. The important thing is that the defense actually works and does what it's supposed to do. You should be extremely careful before you choose to replace the frigate "Helge Ingstad" with a new similar frigate, as it has speculated in the media. It would be extremely unwise and the purchase price would be disproportionate, associated weapon systems may need to be acquired individually, spare parts would be partially different. At the same time, logistics will have to be different from our other frigates. After all, 12–15 years have passed since the first frigates were delivered, development is on its way, the different spare parts will change, and production itself will change. That means we'll get one frigate in that case, if we're going to replace it differently than the others. It would be unwise and the operating costs would be too high. Then the Minister of Defense was about to rent or lease. The Minister of Defence thought that it would be difficult, or expensive, or complicated – he thought at least that it was not up to date. I think you'll see how to solve it one more time before you conclude. But perhaps the most topical thing is to have an alternative system -- not one system, but a system that is in series production, so that you produce more, which can partially replace the frigate, but can also do other things that go beyond the mission of the frigates. This can also be done as part of – for which the Centre Party is engaged – a defence escalation plan. There will also be new seagoing systems. But then you have to invest so that the military's operational capability is in the driver's seat and have no other – what to say – goals of the defense's investment, which we saw tending to in the last debate we had on the NH90. There must be the operational needs of the defence in the driver’s seat – nothing else.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e382	The situation around KNM “Helge Ingstad” is an incredibly sad case – for Norway, for the Defence and, of course, for the Marine, for all those involved, who fortunately came from the event without great damage, but especially for the defenses of Norway. There have been a lot of speculation in the matter and a great deal of pressure on those added to the defence, and I am pleased that the Minister of Defence is now finally doing the right thing for the Stortinget and the Norwegian people. If you look ahead, there is no doubt that the situation in the Norwegian seas is changing. Requests for cooperation between Russia and China, more traffic through the north-east and climate change are likely to lead to more traffic in Norwegian seas. Russia is more active in military exercises in our neighbourhood. Hence, the defence's maritime capabilities are increasingly important in Norwegian security policy. Unfortunately, Norway today has a subdued capacity for maritime presence in the north. The MPA capabilities are flawed. Coast Guards and frigates are missing helicopter capacity. These are capacities that are necessary and particularly important for Norway. As the head of defence said in his speech in January, we have little to do with being alone in a first-line defense. The important thing in this matter is how we can prevent an additional weakening in our maritime ability to be present in Norwegian sea areas. When we have now lost one fifth of the frigate capacity, we need to find solutions to replace that capacity. The Minister of Defence said in his speech that our commitments to NATO have been taken care of by 2019, and perhaps a little more. At the same time, it is our responsibility for politicians to ensure safe and long-term statements and conditions of defence. All defence capabilities in Norway are related. They're supposed to work together against an opponent. Therefore, the NH90 must be placed on frigates and coastguards as soon as possible, and we must facilitate the most efficient operation of Orion. The Fridtjof Nansen class plays an important role in Norwegian anti-uboat capacity, and there is an interaction between MPA and the frigates – a capacity that we must maintain as well as we can in a difficult situation. It is the wholeness of the Defense that forms the basis of defense and fighting power. I hope the government will now look at the decision to scrape the Shield class in a new light. The corvettes are not old and can sail beyond 2025. They cannot fully replace the lost ship, but they can be involved in ensuring that we have maritime capabilities during a transitional period. This is not the time to weaken the maritime defence capacity in Norway – in an increasingly unstable value. NATO is under pressure. The fact that the United States is taking Russia's credit for splitting the alliance is not really to believe. This is serious for Norway, and it is serious for our closest geographical ally. We need to take more responsibility ourselves, and it's urgent. When Russia is now more active and offensive in our waters, we must take it seriously. Not since the Cold War, it is more important with a strong Norwegian defence. We know that it takes a long time from large military investments to the time of delivery – including those delivered contrary to NH90 helicopters in line with plan, cost and specifications. Hence, it is important to get started quickly. The government and the government must avoid wasting undue time. Event with the frigate KNM “Helge Ingstad” and the problems with NH90 helicopters have created insecurity. The defense and we politicians must work together to win the trust of the Norwegian people. The centre party looks forward to the government returning to a thorough assessment of how to replace the loss in operational capacity after the tragic accident with the loss of KNM Helge Ingstad. It's not given us to see what's the best answer to that problem. It must be resolved quickly, and there are several possibilities. The centre party shall be a constructive participant in ensuring that the wallpaper that Norway has suffered is replaced and that it is replaced quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e403	Let me first thank the Minister of Defense for the statement and say that we share both the thanks and the compassion he sends to the crew and to the rescue personnel for their efforts. Let me also say that we share the concern the government has for the reduced capacity of the Maritime Defence Agency, and wanted to restore it as soon as possible. I would also like to say that I agree with the representative of Kolberg on the need to stress that we need the maximum transparency around the cause. I think that is important for trust and for our ability to take a debate where we can learn from what has happened. When discussing sustainable actions, it is impossible not to address the debate on funding. That discussion has started by the government itself by mentioning this in the government platform and through the Prime Minister's statement this week that it was her own idea, no one else at all, to finance the frigate costs through extra oil money. I think we should stay for a moment in this debate too, because there is nothing, perhaps with the exception of lower taxes on wealth, to which the Right has had more love than moderation in public budgets. Now it seems that the Right only has one principle left, and that's that Erna Solberg is going to be Prime Minister. It is reassuring that we already have a government that is so clear that there is more use of money, more use of oil money, which is the answer, before we have gone into the possibility of prioritizing properly. Then I notice that the Minister of Defense this time again leaves it to be understood that what has obviously become a sort of taboo in the debate on the Norwegian defence, namely the priorities of the fighter aircraft, where the Stortinget has still not made the final decisions on the orders of aircraft, and where it is quite obvious that it will be possible to finance perhaps everything, at least some, of the extra costs we are now getting, by dropping the order of the last six planes. The cost of KNM ‘Helge Ingstad’ when it was new was 4.3 billion. kr in 2018-kroner, according to information provided by the Ministry of Defence. The price of the last six fighter planes will be about 4 billion. kr. I am aware that a new frigate is likely to cost more – some of the other measures the Minister of Defense is discussing here, perhaps less – but it is obvious that instead of jumping straight into a discussion about increased use of oil money, we need to discuss how the defense should prioritise, and then the rest of the fighter flight buy cannot have been taken off the table. That is how we must also give priority to defence policy. SV has shown that we have the ability and the willingness to prioritize the defence. In the current year's budget, we have proposed more money for both military and maritime defence than the government has granted, but neither government building nor frigate can be exempted from the debate on priorities that any other action in the state budget will have to take. Nor can we have a first-class fighter aircraft, with more deer planes than we strictly need, while we have an army and a marine defense that is being defyed. There are many ‘if’ in this discussion, and I have great respect for it, because the Minister of Defence still cannot know whether it is possible to repair or what it will cost to repair, nor what the cost of the new frigate will be. That's why I'm glad the government keeps different possibilities open, even though the most obvious one seems to be off the table. But if repair is not possible, it is important that we go into a complete discussion about what the Maritime Defense needs most. It's not obvious that five instead of four frigates are more important than other things we might be able to invest in to strengthen our maritime defence. We need to take up the debate on the Skjold-class corvettes, which several have been in, and discuss other investments as well. The Defence Manager’s recent signal about what will happen — including by the fact that allies will take greater place in the sea areas near Norway if Norway has a lower presence — we need to take it seriously. Clearly Norwegian presence in the high north is the most important too low voltage in our neighbourhoods, so such an overall assessment is needed. I hope the Minister of Defense will also take the fighter aircraft purchase into it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e420	First of all, I would like to thank the Minister of Defence for a very good and thorough statement, and to say that this is both a sad and tragic matter. Fortunately, no life was lost, and there was no serious injury to the personnel either. Clearly, the material damage that has occurred is painful. It is also painful that this weakens the complex, total defense capacity. Then there has been concern about weapons on board, oil spills, etc., and it seems that this has been handled. Some websites have wondered whether foreign military authorities have been involved in different ways. These speculations are very unfortunate, and so it's important that we get all the facts out thoroughly. Then we can understand how this happened and take lessons from it, so that it doesn't happen again. I also want to take advantage of the opportunity to pay tribute to all those who are in the Navy, in the Maritime Defense and in the Defence. We politicians – I believe the whole Biggest – are proud of the efforts they make, both those who have served earlier and those who serve today. We are totally dependent on having a good defence to protect our borders and protect our own people. Of course, it's about being materially well-equipped, and we have good resources into this. But without a good staff, without good attitudes, and I would also say without a good dose of healthy patriotism, I don't think you can say that you have a good defense. I am very pleased that we have a very good staff in Norway, although we will be able to have political debates on the material situation – and the government has announced that it will be improved on many points. I will be brief, but I would like to take the opportunity to react a little to what the Workers' Party has already announced from this pulpit. From what I understand, it is announced that this proposal for a representative will be presented in a short time. They indicate that they will have an independent investigation — as if the State's accident commission, which is looking at this, is not an independent investigation, as if the State's accident commission will not carry out an objective investigation of this and present that report. It's a little strange that they're already indirectly notifying at this point that they don't trust the work that the State Disaster Commission will do. Would it not be a little more useful to wait for the State Emergency Commission to provide the necessary answers before possibly allowing party politics to enter into this? Finally, we in the Left are concerned that we have a good defence, to secure our borders and to assert our sovereignty, and that we should be able to take care of Norwegian citizens. In order to do that, we need to have a good operational defence capability. We will follow the matter closely, and I expect that the Minister of Defence will keep the Storting properly informed about developments.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e435	I would also like to start by thanking the Minister of Defence for a very good report. I am sure that it is the whole wish of the Storting to find out what happened, why that happened and not least what we can learn from such an event. When KNM “Helge Ingstad” collided with the tanker “Sola” TS at the Sture Terminal in Eyegarden last year, we all understood that it was a serious incident. First of all, we should be happy not to lose life. The images and TV interviews from the event have made an impression on the right stories of those who have been involved. I would like to extend a great thank you to them and to everyone who made a great effort on the morning of Thursday, November 8. So I'm glad to hear that the crew is being followed up in a good way, and that they feel taken care of by the Maritime Defense. It's important. As the Minister of Defense says, it has been a tax not only for the crew, but for the entire Maritime Defense. Fortunately, the collision has not resulted in serious pollution, and even if the frigate was set up with weapons, it gives me confidence that, as far as we now know, these do not constitute a security or environmental risk. A defense has multiple roles. The one is of course quite clear that one should be opposed to an aggressive enemy. But it also has another role, by being present and just making sure that an aggressive enemy doesn't cross the border. Then one must be visible. When a frigate loses, we become, among other things, a frigate. less visible. A preliminary report was presented on 29 November by the State Safety Commission. It was a preliminary report, but I think it was right to present a rough picture based on the information that was then available. We know that there is a complicated work ahead of us. Accidents involve several individuals, the wedding team, the ship, the traffic centre and the interaction between them. It is natural that this work will require time and resources, but, as others have also pointed out, it is important that it comes as quickly as possible and that we be open about this. The Minister of Defence has done well for the consequences that we have now lost a frigate. And of course, there's a number of relationships that have to be considered in the further work, but here it's added up to a process that I think seems trustworthy, and that's good. We now need measures in the short term that can compensate for some of the things that we have lost operationally through the loss. Of course, it wouldn't be possible to compensate a hundred percent in the short term, but I'm glad that the Minister of Defence is looking forward to it. When it comes to temporary measures and, where appropriate, how we should finance measures in the longer term, I think it is natural for us to take that debate when we know what to do. So when we know what we are going to do – it has been assessed whether we are going to repair, whether we are going to buy new ones, whether there are other measures – we also need to look at the funding. There's a lot of questions about this case, there's a lot of speculation, and those speculations have actually given you even more questions. That's why it's important that we get a response to the table, and I trust that the Minister of Defense will do what he can to just get all the facts on the table. So we have an important task ahead of us, both in terms of growth and in terms of government, to make sure that the operational potential is not permanently weakened as a result of this event. When we come to our conclusions, of course, the professional-military points of view will be very difficult to draw conclusions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e458	First, I would like to thank you for the continuous support to the team, which has been through a difficult situation. It could have gone so infinitely much, much worse than it did, and after the event it's become obvious that there's good seamanship that made it not going worse. It has been important to me that we take care of the crew as well as possible afterwards. This is such an event that makes us not sure that no one will feel the stress too heavy gradually, but they are well cared for now. But we are individuals, and we have to follow them up in the future. I am very pleased that we get good feedback from them on how they have been cared for. So to some of the questions that are raised: openness -- yes, I am very much in order that there should be as much openness about these kinds of things as possible, but transparency also requires that we are careful about the different roles we have in such a debate. When we're clear about what the role of the Council of States is, it's also clear that we can be open about what you can say about right now. It is a prerequisite for the good debate that those who have been given their own responsibilities and roles are allowed to play those roles. That's why we're going to have a lot of respect for the job that the State Emergency Commission is doing, and the conclusions they come up with. I mean that learning, learning, learning are one of the most important things we do, and I'm perfectly open to learning as much of the rescue operation as possible, it should be followed closely. So there are questions about how to keep close to it, and how to get an objective assessment of it – I don't have any problems discussing it in Stortinget. For me, it is important that we learn from every thing that has happened in this case. So to it with discussion: if you heard my post, I'm dealing with the budgetary processes we have in Stortinget. And the fact that the government has said that it is necessary to assess the principle of self-insurance in relation to funding – it is a debate that goes on the side of what I am working on. I refer to the revised national budget, and I refer to the next long-term plan, which in time meets the process we are going to enter into in the future. We're going to discuss investment in the last six fighter planes in this room in connection with the investment proposition. There will be good opportunities for SV to come up with their position there too, so that part I believe is well cared for. The fact that we have now started the job with the long-term plan also fits in time when it comes to taking into account the situation we are currently in, with reduced operational capability in the Maritime Defence. It's going to be a natural part of the work we're going to do in the future, and we're going to keep the Storting close in that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e470	The debate on the presentation is thus closed. The President will propose that the statement by the Minister of Defence on the loss of the frigate KNM ‘Helge Ingstad’ be annexed to the Protocol. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e488	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e497	At the NATO Summit in Wales in September 2014, it was agreed that NATO's total defence expenditure should be increased towards 2 p.m. At the same time, it was decided that the share of material investment in the defence budget should be increased to a minimum of 20 pst. This was one year after the government of Solberg had taken over. In 2013, the share of the Norwegian defence budget in gross domestic product was approximately. 1.2 pst. Today the share of the defence budget is approx. 1.6 pst. The Committee, i.e. The majority of the Committee notes that since 2013, the defence budget has increased by 30 pst. But what's more important than the percentages are the actual heads. In dollars, it's 16 billion. kr in the increase in the defence budget. The defence budget will also increase over the next few years. We are facing a very demanding challenge. Very many of the defence's main fighting systems are going out on date about simultaneously. It is a very demanding political and economic challenge to re-establish these combat systems at about the same time. We acquire new surveillance aircraft, new fighter aircraft, new coastguard vessel, new artillery for the Army, new tanks for the Army to come, new combat air force for the Army, etc. In total, this means that the investment share of the defence budget in Norway amounts to 27 p.m., far above NATO’s requirements from Wales in 2014. The majority of the Committee also notes that from 2018 to 2019, the defence budget will actually increase by 2.46 billion. kr. We are now seeing a development in the defence budget over the last few years when the defence budget has gone from being a budget player to a budget winner. That's the way it has to keep going. A new long-term plan will be presented to the Stortinget in the spring of 2020. After all solar panels, there will be new threat assessments and a changed security policy situation, which will have to be addressed in the new long-term plan and which will, in turn, further increase the defence budget. But if you want to sum up this long-term plan, and that is quite clear to the Committee, you will see a long-term plan from 2017 to 2020 where 8 billion have been used. kr more on the defense than in the long-term plan of the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e510	Norway has committed itself to NATO's goal of increasing defence budgets to 2 pst. in 2024. When the Prime Minister was in Stortingen in connection with the government statement, she said that the government is aiming at Norway moving further towards the 2-percentile. The problem now is that we're not moving towards, but away from the 2 percent. The proportion of defence is smaller in 2019 than in 2018. It's the whole problem with Riveres' posts here instead. He doesn't give a proper picture of the situation. I think that is serious, given our commitments, because, in relation to other NATO countries, we are also getting worse. Under the Ministers of Defence of the Right, Norway has pushed downwards on the ranking of NATO countries after the GDP share spent on defence. We were in the eighth place in 2013 and in the eleventh place in 2017. When we entered into an agreement on the long-term plan of defence, we received the following response on the proportion of defence from the government: ‘Depending on the projections and scenarios used, the share of GDP of the defence budget in 2020 will be between 1.58 and 1.71 %.’» And then it comes: ‘Despite forecast, the share of GDP will increase.’ The problem is that it does not happen, and the problem is that it does not happen because of unforeseen events, or because the Norwegian economy has grown so much more than you assumed. The problem is — this is a little tedious, but it is incredibly important — that the Ministry of Defence misinformed the Stortinget and admitted that the proportion of defence would increase, assuming that GDP would not increase. That's pretty special. When the government comes to the UK regarding the revised national budget, in terms of the state budget, an increase in GDP is introduced, but in this context it was not. That's the wrong information and the reason we're here today. That's why we think it's important to be more transparent about how we're going to achieve our NATO commitments. And therefore the Workers' Party proposes: ‘The Government requests the publication by 1 March 2019 of an up-to-date version of the plan Norway, like the other NATO countries, submitted before 31 December 2018 on the national follow-up of NATO’s two-percentage targets, including NATO’s assessment of the Norwegian plan as it emerged in the context of NATO’s 13-14 Defence Ministerial Meeting. February.’» This is the plan presented to NATO. We need that assessment to Stortinget. A little clarification of the discussion instead: It was said that the Workers' Party did not trust the Commission. We have. What we are proposing in the Chamber is not an external investigation in addition to what is going on in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. What we're asking for is an external examination of is the actual recovery, so that we get a complete picture of the situation that has arisen. With that, I take up the Labour Party's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e539	The representative Anniken Huitfeldt has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e544	It is the opposition’s privilege to conduct random and economically unrelated policies or big business – or populism. And to be absolutely honest, it's not completely unknown to this representative either. [[Laughter]] But I want to invite the Center Party together to raise the defense, because the defense is too serious to run the playback policy. In the previous case, the representative Navarsete said that the Central Party would be a constructive co-player. Then I would encourage the Center Party to be there in this case. When economic growth is high, as it has been under this government, even large billion transfers to the Defense will give small percentages. 1.6 pst. of much gives much more defence than 2 pst. of a little. However, it is not an excuse, but an explanation. So to NATO's decision, as expressed in the Workers' Party and the comments of the Centre Party: « – Allies whose current proportion of GDP spend on defence is below [2%] will: – halt any decline in defense expenditure;» – The government has done so. ‘ – aim to increase defence expansion in real terms as GDP growths;’ – Government does. « – aim to move towards the 2% guideline within a decade with a view to meeting their NATO Capability Targets and filling NATO's capacity shortfalls.» – The government does. All three of these decisions satisfy the government, so it's interesting that the Workers' Party and the Center Party clarify it, but it's nice. Let's move on: let's end up with the semantics and the trenches, and let's join together to strengthen the defense further. Let's give a promise not just to each other, that one is better than the other: regardless of government, NATO's goal of 2 pst. be completed by 2024. It's a promise from everyone. Everyone says that we want this, and then I think we can make a promise here: we're going to make it together. It requires research-based planning – not populist representation proposals in Stortinget, nor are new speeches and writings from current and retired generals, telling about everything you should have and how miserable everything is. We see that every single time retired generals are out, and today's generals are out, it's a miserable description of the defense that doesn't look like anything. I would like to remind the generals, both those who were, and those who are, that they too have a responsibility for the defence they were in. The share of GDP should be higher, and it will be higher, but at the same time it is crucial to use resources. Investment in new material shall not be experimental or have ambitions to achieve objectives irrelevant to the operational capability of the defence. You also have to see the defence's tasks. What do we want with the Defense? Then we must continuously strengthen the transatlantic bridge through NATO and not engage in duplicate defence cooperation. We need to see what role defence should play in society, and we need to raise awareness and build national communities. So it's not just the operational ability. The defence has far more tasks to solve, not least the awareness among the population of what defence does, how important defence is, and the transatlantic alliance. Then it's up to us politicians to be able to prioritize. That we understand that the NATO Alliance is building bridges against the United States and Canada is absolutely crucial for the defence of Norway and the common defence we have. Gradually, there have been 30 NATO member countries. We must not duplicate it – and I say that directly on behalf of the Progress Party – in the belief that we should make a copy, a European defence cooperation. It will not work, and it will be a competitor for cooperation with the United States.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e572	It is tempting to start with a small line to the representative Tybring-Gjedde. The centre party will always be constructive and participate in conversations. We are only waiting for an invitation. So far, the government hasn't invited the Center Party to constructive dialogue and conversations, but we're looking forward to that. The representative says that with large growth in the economy it is more demanding to achieve the target of 2 pst. Yes, when you get a larger pie, you have to have a larger pie piece to get 2 pst. But the remaining 98 pst. is also greater. So it's going to be more to the total. There will be more to it, for example: tax relief, which is a high priority for the Progress Party. This is about priority at the end of the seventh. The management of this proposal, Document 8:212 S for 2017-2018, on a contingency plan for the defence, takes place at a time when uncertainty and unrest characterise the global security image. In the last few days, both the United States and Russia have gone away from the INF agreement and planned to upgrade rather than to rust down and secure peace. In the Middle East there is unrest, poverty and war, and in several countries in Europe there is uncertainty as to how democratic traditions will be passed on in countries where the extreme right-wing party is becoming increasingly engrossed. In the proposal of the Central Party, we call for a stepping-up plan for the Defence to be put in place to achieve NATO's 2 pst target. of GDP in defence by 2024. There is a broad consensus in Norway that NATO should continue to be a pillar of Norwegian defence policy, as it has been for more than 70 years. Article 5 of the Atlantic Treaty ensures that commitments on one ally are seen as commitments on all. However, Article 3 makes it equally clear that each country has obligations to maintain and develop its individual and common capacity to resist joint action. Last week, the head of defense clearly stated that the Norwegian defence is too small, too thin to manna and needs solid reinforcement. The government's long-term plan provides a minimum of defense. It's the Center Party, along with the Chief of Defense. We even have the claim for quite a long time. In this situation, there is a need for a clear strengthening of the defence budget, a mandatory escalation. Defence needs a framework to ensure that the Marines are compensated for the loss of the frigate Helge Ingstad, which must also be given priority, as other parts of the defence budget. A escalating will provide room for deploying helicopters for the Maritime Defense, Coast Guard and Army and building a robust force with modern weapon systems that can communicate on a common digital platform. It will provide real consistency between the defence economy, structure and tasks. All four of the largest games on Stortinget have decided that one should reach the target of 2 pst. of GDP in defence by 2024. However, on January 2018 questions from the Stortinget, the Minister of Defence replied that one in 2020-2024 will not approach the target at all, on the contrary, the GDP part of defence will decrease by about 1.5 pst. In 2018, the GDP component went down from 2017, so the government is well in the process of slowing down, and he will go down further in 2019. The government's representatives are still comparing the defence budget today with the budgets of the red-green government. Are these representatives so historyless that they have ignored the dramatic changes we have made in the security policy image since 2014? Today's situation is so different from that we had in 2013 that it is possible to get him. During that period, even Russia could become a member of NATO. Has anyone forgotten? That's not exactly what you're talking about today. We didn't see the operations in the north that we see today. I think we have to ask to let go of that kind of historyless vase. Now the government has to take responsibility for what they're doing, and keep out of the way where they're supposed to be. One boasts that it has never been given more money to the Defense, and that it is historical. This is probably true, but as defence expenditure increases more than price rises, they have to be measured in terms of their share of GDP. And here the government is failing. I take this up with me the proposal from the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e597	The representative, Liv Signe Navarsete, has taken up the proposal she referred to. Then the President may ask to find a different and better parliamentary expression than 'vas'.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e602	Defence policy in the next few years will be marked by tough priorities. It's always easy to set targets, but it doesn't make it any easier to find the money when each budget is created. Let me just first say that SV's starting point is that in the years that come, we're going to spend more money on the Norwegian defense. In particular, we shall do so by strengthening the Army and the Maritime Defense. It's crucial for our ability to assert sovereignty, it's crucial to be able to stand more on their own at a time when things change very quickly and old alliances are not as sure as before. This must be done by granting more money, but it must also be done through re-prioritisation. Then we're back at the debate we just had here in the Chamber, related to the expensive commitments we're about to take on, which we now have to think about, because we probably can't afford it if we're going to be able to create space to bet on those parts of the defense that are depleted. It means buying fewer fighter planes, and it means bringing home Norwegian forces that are currently participating in international, American-led war operations out there. Regardless of this, we need a policy to improve Norway’s ability to address its safety challenges without leaning too much on others. It applies to land, and it applies to sea. This government's policy has been partly to compensate for the lack of ability and willingness to give priority, among other things. the Norwegian army by inviting American soldiers to a permanent presence in Norway. That's SV against. Having said that and our willingness to strengthen the defence budget underlined, it is the actual Norwegian needs, the actual needs of our defence, that are to govern the use of money – not a percentage that is eagerly promoted by Donald Trump. Overall, the 2 % target in NATO means unnecessary upgrading in Europe. If it is to be implemented in all NATO countries, it is a contribution to an increase in tension. We are already seeing the danger of a new nuclear race after what happened to the INF agreement on Friday. Through a massive increase in defence budgets, we can also have an unhealthy conventional arms race, which is the last Europe that needs now – a Europe in social crisis, which needs large investments in work, in welfare and to save the climate. It is the most important thing to ensure stability in Europe in the coming years. In addition, it is far from being given that increased Norwegian defence budgets will mean 2 pst. GDP. On the contrary, we believe that this is an unrealistic measure. No party in this room is going to be able to give so much priority to the defense in front of all other considerations that are going to have money in the next few years, nor is it necessary to get where we want: a stronger army and a stronger maritime defense. This shall be done during a period when there will be much less oil money to be spent, and unless the government decides that they will take more and more of the defence costs below, a priority challenge will arise which will prevent the 2 % target from being achieved. I think all parties should be honest about it, instead of fighting about who's most for that goal. For one, throwing blues in the eyes of people and not least of all the capable people who do the job in our defense every single day. The 2-percent rate is unrealistic. That is why SV is going to vote against the proposal of the Central Party. We will also be voting against the proposal from the Labour Party. We're too much of a openness, but I see this proposal as most of all a contribution to the struggle between the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the government on who is the most for the 2-percent, and then we'll just as well vote against all the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e621	The government has increased its defence budgets every year after 2013 and is committed to continuing to do so, in line with the escalation in the long-term plan. Since we got into government, the defence budgets have had a real increase of about 30 pst. The 2019 budget has a real increase of 2.37 billion. kr, corresponding to 4,3 pst. compared to 2018. The share of defence budgets in GDP has also increased since we became a government. In 2013, the GDP share was 1.48 pst. For 2018, the proportion is estimated to be between 1.61 pst. and 1,65 p.m., but this will only be determined once the accounts have been cleared and final GDP is available. Let me be clear that the government's goal is to move in the direction of using 2 pst. of GDP in defence, is established. But as the Workers' Party is also clear in its comments, the Wales Declaration is about more than 2-percentage. Important objectives are also the need for countries to use a minimum of 20 pst. investment – investment in key capacity – and contribute to international efforts. We plan for 2019 to use about 28 pst. for tangible investment. The investment share has been high over time. We invest in important capabilities like NATO demand. We make good and sought-after contributions to international efforts that reap great recognition. The government has started working on a new long-term plan for the defence sector. The next long-term plan will be a premise that Norway aims to move further towards the 2 % target. At the same time, the government has shown that it will be very difficult to achieve a situation where Norway uses 2 pst. of GDP for defence purposes in 2024. The economic framework for the further development of the defence sector must be derived as part of overall assessments rather than adopting individual escalation plans. The strengthening needed to achieve the objective for the next long-term programming period must be phased into the defence budget as a result of thorough assessments, as we did in the current long-term plan. Thus, by doing so, the strengthening will be possible for the sector to convert in each financial year. We cannot compromise on the objective of sustainability, either in the short term or in the long term. By following an ordinary process for the preparation and treatment of a new long-term plan, we properly monitor the involvement of the Storting. We also follow the usual procedure, both for the treatment of each state budget and for the treatment of the long-term defence plan. We need to know what to spend the money on. It is therefore not appropriate to draw up a single escalating plan for the use of 2 pst. of GDP for defence purposes in 2024. So to the claims made by the Workers' Party and the Centre on misinformation: there is always considerable uncertainty about projections made about future GDP shares. It has also been for the answer that was given to Stortinget in June 2016. The response then given, with clear reservations, suggested a potential GDP share in 2020 within a significant range of 1.58 pst. and 1.71 pst., where the highest share of this range accounted for zero growth in GDP. This illustrates the complexity and sensitivity of the predictions of the assumptions used. In other words, forecasts could vary significantly over time. The response from June 2016 that the GDP share would in any case increase must be seen in relation to what was the starting point at the time the response was given. The opposition will obviously not relate to the uncertainties and reservations that must always be linked to forecasts of GDP share. I think that's a choice, but it can't be used at the same time as an instrument to create uncertainty about the government's obligations, because we do. The main tool we have for building better defence is to put in place a realistic long-term plan, follow that plan and finance it in each budget. We have discussed "Helge Ingstad" earlier today. We should be aware that with the situation we had in 2013, with low operational capability for our frigates, we could not have compensated immediately as we do today, with extra crews to sail the necessary sailing days we need in 2019 and 2020. It is the long-term plan – the escalation of crew, of equipment, the repair of frigates, the screwing of frigates, so that they can sail – which means that we can now at least compensate for the sailing days we are missing when we lose a frigate. It's a good plan, which builds a good foundation wall and enables us to also meet the challenges when they get along.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e640	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e646	The Labour Party has proposed that the government publish before 1 March 2019 an unupgraded version of the plan Norway, similar to other NATO countries, submit before 31 December 2018 on the national follow-up of NATO 2 percentage points, including NATO’s assessment of the Norwegian plan, as he emerged in connection with the NATO Minister of Defence Meeting 13-14. February last year. My question is whether the Minister of Defence will publish our plan that has been sent to NATO, and – paragraph 2 – NATO's assessment of him?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e653	I'll answer that when I get the request, but it's also that we publish those assessments in the state budget. That's part of the proposition every year what we have report to NATO, and how NATO has responded to it. The unupgraded part from the past exists, and then we see what kind of numbers we have, and what kind of knowledge base we have to meet the wishes of Stortinget – if it becomes a wish from March 1. When asked for an unrated assessment, this is not a secret. We've regularly reported it before.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e658	I record that the government party is strongly opposed to having an escalation plan that obliges the government. One can of course ask questions about why, because to the extent that the government party is serious about approaching the 2 percent target in 2024, one necessarily has to have a plan for that. Then a priority must be given every year. Maybe you'll have to give a little less tax relief, maybe you'll have to prioritize other areas. If one thinks one should approach the 2-percent limit, I take it for granted that one at least comes up to 1.95 pst., maybe – if one doesn't do exactly 2 pst. Can the Council state what is the reason why an absolute failure to commit to an escalation plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e663	We have an escalating plan. It's called the Long-Term Defense Plan. We have also announced that we will present a new long-term plan for the Defence for 2021-2024. We've also said that a premise for that work is that we're going to move further to meet the obligations towards NATO.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e668	In the annual speech, the Defence Manager characterised his long-term plan for the government as a plan for a minimum defence. Then of course you can wonder if that's the government's content to keep one going. But I'm going to ask a slightly different question. It has been said from the Minister of Defence that the Defence Chief will be assigned to develop professional military advice in the field of government will further develop. In the course of the forthcoming long-term plan, the head of defence shall clearly not provide a professional-military advice on the well-being of the defence. In the defense, everything is familiar with everything, which it often does otherwise in society. Why should the defence manager not himself be given priority over what he wants from a professional point of view to be a priority in the new long-term plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e675	First, I would like to say that the Chief of Defense gave a good speech in Oslo Military Society. A lot of what he said is completely parallel to what I said 14 days earlier, when I gave my speech in Oslo Military Society, describing the environment in our neighbourhood. So to the defense chief's role in terms of the next long-term plan. We're doing a job with the Defence Research Institute where you look at: what kind of plan did we let? What was the reality in 2013? Where are we now? What has to be adjusted to the plan we have? The head of defense is in the program board for the work, so he's very close. With regard to recommendations on the nature of trends to be considered, the Chief of Defence shall be mandated to do so. The reason why we hit it is because we don't have to turn everything upside down in the plan we've already set, because very much of what we're doing in that plan is obviously right and going in the right direction. The head of defense has stated that he has never been so close to the work that he is now allowed to do, and is very pleased with his position. I think that's a good sign of the work we're going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e682	I thank you for your answer. Of course, I also thank you for having a loyal head of defense as he is in the department and, of course, speaking loyally. Because if the head of defense had free reins to prioritize, it is not necessarily so that what he would have come to, would be the same as that government had come to. There is probably something the Storting should be very attentive to, because we in Stortinget are concerned that the plans and the advice we get, which we are going to discuss and make decisions about here, are the basis of the professional militarism, and that the priorities are based on an overall professional-military view. How can we in Stortinget be sure, after the process the government is now proposing, that what we get, is a balanced professional-military advice and is based on it? Of course, it is the Council of State who put it forward, it will be politics, but is it at the bottom of a broad professional-military council?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e687	I have now explained the role of the Chief of Defense. The head of defence is very pleased that he gets that role. The fact that we reach the mandate when he comes with his professional military council is because the work he does now is also based on a good part of the work he did last time. I believe that a greater danger to the defence chief's authority is when he speaks of his work in this way, is doubtful that he, as a professional military adviser, comes with professional military advice, simply saying that we cannot rely on what the defense chief says. I think that's a greater danger in that work than just how to make the role visible. The Defence Manager uses his leadership group to provide his professional military advice. He's doing the evaluation in advance. He does the priorities in advance. And then we take the long-term plan to the Stortinget as a political document. There the government may have given a different priority, and the Storting would like to give a different priority after that. I think that's a good democratic process to make good investments in something as important as the Defense.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e694	There is something called having a bad argument, one must raise the voice. Now I'm recording that the Minister of Defense raises the voice a little bit, because no matter how fast he talks on his pretty dialect, he can't hide that the process that we're now putting up is much more controlled than the processes that you've had before. The professional-military council has always been important, and that has been a good basis for debate ahead of the long-term plan. The question then is quite simply: will there also be a publication of the professional military council in this round, as it has been done before?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e705	Then I'll try to whisper, if it was unpleasant that I raised my voice. I am concerned with the status of the professional military and defence chief, and I am concerned that we should refer to the head of defence as the professional military adviser he is for the government, while he is the chief of forces. I said earlier in this room that I see no reason to keep secret the professional military council from the defense chief. It wasn't done last time, I don't have any plans to do it now. But I'm recording that it's constantly being used in the debate as a rule technique to take down the defense chief's authority. I think we should think about it before we do it from the political sector. We get a professional military council, there's a political process in the department, there's a paper for the Stortinget, there's a political process in the Stortinget. I think we should adorn ourselves with doing this kind of investment: building something as important as defending Norwegian countries in a good way, even with the help of the head of defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e715	Replicate cord shift complete. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e722	The operational capability of the defence at all times is a result of the policy that has been or has not been pursued. That's why it's so wrong when the representative Navarsete says that the build-up of the Defence is the result of the changed security policy situation. And then you refer to Ukraine and Georgia, among others. No, the state of defence is inextricably linked to the ever-present interest of the government in the facts. If one is interested in discovering what the situation really is without becoming too historical and going too far back to governments, I am forced to quote what Liv Signe Navarsette said to NeverMer.no: ‘I myself contributed to the handling of the two previous long-term defence messages. Everything looked very good. We didn't think it was necessary to focus so much on the defence." There was so little interest in the actual conditions of the defense. It also reflected the long-term plans of the red-green government. In two long-term planning periods over eight years, 800 million were to be used. kr more on the Defence. The defence budget has gone from budget deficits to budgetary gains under this government. The large economic space that the previous government had was not used for defence. But we're not on target. We're doing a great job of repatriating defense, but it's a long canvas to bleach. But when you've added 16 billion. kr more on the defence budget table since 2013 and this represents 30 pst. Real growth, it says itself that we get more fighting power at the pointed end. This government will continue in the same way – because the defence is not good enough and because the security policy situation has changed. The defence budget is going to increase, we're going to have the same interest and dive into the actual conditions of the defense, as Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide and Defense Chief Haakon Bruun-Hansen did once they joined in 2013. Then they found a defense under controlled liquidation, a left bill of 180 billion. kr, a minimum defence during liquidation. We've come out of that situation. The base wall has been repaired, and the defense is built step by step.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e736	In the lines of line, the council tried to create the impression that the Central Party has no respect for the Chief of Defense. Well, that's just what the Center Party has. We have great respect for the head of defense, for those who work in the defense, for those who have their daily function and know what is really needed. We also have good contact with many in Defense, because one sees that the Center Party takes on matters that are not always as much in focus in the political leadership of the Department. It'll always be like that. I am fully aware that the long-term plan is a political document. What I'm busy about, and what the Center Party is busy about, is that the head of defence should have the freedom to make a holistic assessment and come with his assessment in the open room – as a good start to the debate on the long-term plan. It has been so, and it should be so. Then it's quite perceptive that the representative of the Rivers in his post says that the government doesn't build up the defense because of the security situation, but because one has an interest in the defense. Yes, honour the government for having an interest in the defense, there are now many who have, but I actually believed in Norway that the construction of the defense was about adapting to the situation that Norway is in every time. Let me refer to NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg, because when he was prime minister of the red-green government, he said that when one is willing to build up the defense in good times, one must be willing to build it up in bad times, that is, when the security situation is completely different. In this way, I am well aware of what I said to nominees.no, because the security situation was completely different. And if the representative of Elvenes doesn't get it, he gets to read more history. This is not a dispute between the Centre Party, the Labour Party and the Government Party about who is most likely to reach the 2 percentage points. However, the experience from my time as Minister of Transport, when we got through a roadmap for transport, was that it was good for planning and implementation – in the road sector, in the rail sector and in the transport sector – and it was followed up by government. The central party's proposal is about how to achieve the 2 % target, how to finance it, and implicitly what to give priority to. It would provide a decent situation for the defense, simplify planning and ensure that one could start investing and know what the growth of the coming budgets would be like. I just have to register that for the majority in this room it is not of interest.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e753	It is serious that we cannot agree with the Stortingen on the defence. Today, the reality is that the minimum defence we have is too small to allow the defence over time to meet the obligations we have nationally and internationally. We're going to use our funds more wisely, but we're also going to have to grant the funds that need to be. A new OECD report recently came up to support long-term strategic thinking on education, called Trends Shaping Education. Here they point to the trend with an increasing and more complex risk picture. Personal safety and health risks, cybersecurity, national security and financial security are given a lot of attention in the report, and corresponding attention is due to these issues in the Stortinget, in the Defence and in the general public. Environmental risks are increasing and the number of natural disasters experienced is increasing both in number and in severity. The development of defence must reflect changes in the security policy landscape, changing expectations of Norway as an ally in NATO, as well as technological developments and expected deviations from the objectives of the current long-term plan. Cyber defence is responsible for establishing and maintaining the area of action of the defence in the cyber domain, the digital space, and for protecting the defence's ICT systems against digital threats. The Russians are experts at exploiting grey zones between peace and war, and already we have seen how cyberattacks, false news and manipulation are up in the public vocabulary, both nationally and internationally. We can't view the use of this as a single event, but we recognize it as a conscious strategy. It is a challenge that needs to be taken seriously, and cybersecurity needs to be lifted. I would like to draw up cyberterrors as an area we need to focus more on in Norway, but which we can also expect NATO to be particularly concerned about in the future. As the work in NATO progresses, they will probably also impose stricter requirements on how Norway can address cybersecurity. Unfortunately, the government is moving away from 2 pst. of gross domestic product with the State budget of the year. At 2 pst. of GDP, the premise of current defence priorities will change significantly, and there will be economic coverage to see the defence in a completely different light — including in cybersecurity — than what is happening in practice today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e766	Norway is the country in the world that has the second longest coast. The Norwegian sea area from Lindesnes to the northern tip of Svalbard is as far as it is from Lindesnes to Gibraltar. According to the Norwegian Sea Maat wire, the Norwegian fishing industry has had an export value of more than 33 billion. kr in 2018. Norway's ability to promote sovereignty in the Norwegian economic zone has been weakened by today's government. The coastguard is struggling with too little staff to meet its needs, the coastguard helicopters have not yet arrived – I refer to the North Guides accident in the Hinlopenstret, which shows how vulnerable it is. The Coast Guard signals a great deal of uncertainty about the situation they're in. They have not received a double crew, which they were to receive in 2017. The NH90 has not yet been put in place, and the maritime defence's ability to monitor, control, search and rescue is weakened. The coastguard believes we are heading back to the situation that was before the Lynx helicopters were available: dumping of fish, larger vessels carrying slumped lanterns inside the fjords to fish and little room for action to help people in distress. The government’s priorities have a direct impact on all those working at sea, with no capacity for search and rescue or control of Norwegian resources. About 20,000 people have their work at sea and in the Norwegian zone. These have 20 times as high mortality as those who work on the land. This jumps the government smoothly. By securing a escalating plan to 2 pst. of gross domestic product, the Stortinget will ensure predictability of the Defence and allow the Defence Manager to perform all his duties adequately. That is why this proposal is so important. The right-wing party and the Progress Party will do the opposite of what they give the impression of being concerned about whether they vote against this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e781	The security policy situation in Europe has become even more tense in the last year than it was at the same time in 2018. More important than ever, it is to have a robust land defence based on credible territorial threshold. We are the only nation bordering Russia that does not meet NATO requirements. President Trump has on several occasions created uncertainties about US participation in NATO. It is even clearer that Norway must be able to defend itself through a balanced defence based on deterrence, tranquillity and clear presence in the north. There is no doubt that it requires action through increased defence budgets now. The long-term plan that this government has set up is a very skeptical one. According to this government's proposal, for example, 2. Battalion on Shield is based only on mobilization personnel. It means in practice that the 2nd Battalion will no longer have soldiers in active service, but that the Battalion is based on fleeing soldiers from elsewhere in the country if you are in crisis or fear of war. The Central Party believes that the 2nd Battalion will also have a high configuration requirement in the future, that is, a large number of soldiers present on Skjold. The centre party has also shown that Bardufoss must have suitable helicopters for the Army. The government proposes to take from the Army Bell helicopters. There is a weakening of the Norwegian defence in general and the defence of North Norway in particular. There are, as has been pointed out very many times, no modern army in the world today that do not have functional helicopters available. The Bell Helicopters give the Army the opportunity to move soldiers quickly in important positions on the terrain. Helicopters are short and well a crucial capacity for the Army. Norway is a long-distance country, and our geography with mountains, fjords and valleys makes it very difficult for the Army to operate without this capacity. There has been a lot of talk about whether NH90 helicopters will be able to carry out missions that the Bell helicopters have today. These are helicopters for the Coast Guard and the Marine, and it's good it gets invested in, but it's not a substitute for the Bell helicopters, you have to be very aware of that. The long-term plan does not help to strengthen the defence. The centre party is clear that the appropriations for the defence must increase. I think it is a pity that today you do not want to commit to an escalation plan that ensures Norway, by using 2 pst. of the GDP of the Defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e792	There were so many people who wanted to extend the debate, so I thought I would contribute a little bit. There are several Central Party representatives who have taken the floor, and they are not talking about the proposal, they are talking about Defence in general. I'm sure a lot of people can do that too, but that's the representative proposal we're discussing. The government is not opposed to a escalating plan. We have an escalating plan. It is called the long-term plan, and the long-term plan is presented to spring next year. Then the Centre Party can also operate with a escalating plan. That's what's the whole idea that we have a stepping-up plan – that it's called a long-term plan – that we agree on. It would be interesting if the representative Navarsete could tell us who was going to lean on this central party escalation plan, because she was not happy with the head of defense. Who really is the Center Party going to ask for advice? Where is it to be presented, and by whom? Is it that we're going to join a escalating plan that puts the long-term plan in a drawer? This is completely unprofessional. It's populist. I've experienced it before from the Center Party, so it's not entirely new, but still. A long-term plan needs to be based on research results from the FFI, defence needs, technology development, opportunities, what we need to do, what we need to defend, how we need to operate. That's what a plan is. It takes a long time to develop it. That's why it's called a long-term plan, both because of its length, and because it takes a long time to develop it. It shall not be drawn up at the main hall on the basis of a proposal by a representative. The representative writes in the comments: ‘To date, the objective is to make national priorities that are politically demanding.’ It would have been a brilliant idea. If you think the defense is so important, you must believe that the defense is more important than the peasants! Or isn't the defense so important? Are the farmers most important? Or, as Mr. Navarsete said, we're going to drop the tax. The whole point of the tax haven is that it's going to be easier to invest, that most people have to keep more of the money, so that they can generate economic growth and we get more money to spend on the defense. It's the idea of tax relief, which the representative Navarsete may disagree with, but spending money on transfers and subsidies doesn't generate economic growth at least, and then you get less money for the defense.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e805	The proposal we are debating here today is based on the fact that we are seeing a world around us that is more troubled than before, and that means that, as a national assembly, you follow it up and safeguard the interests of the people. We do that by having a credible defence, and in order to create a credible defence, we need to have planning and opportunities to make political priorities and professional judgements towards the goal we have. As a nation, Norway has previously been high on the list of those who use a large share of gross domestic product in the Defence, and that share is therefore falling under this government. It is the opposite of what the government parties themselves have promised, and it is therefore surprising that one cannot see that it could be an advantage to have a framework plan for how much money is to be phased in in the future – just to create the basis for that representative Tybring-Gjedde called his plan of escalation, namely the long-term plan. But that is not what this proposal is really about. It is not about creating a new long-term plan. It is about creating a framework for how to phase in money to achieve the 2-percent target, and how to design the long-term plan in this context. It is in the light that the Centre Party has been concerned with a number of deflections in this debate. It's because the defense engages, and because the defense is important to a nation state. The Defence Minister was very concerned with the authority of the Chief of Defense and felt that using the Chief of Defence's professional military advice in the debate helped to weaken the authority. I would like to see the Minister for Transport use the same expression about the national transport plan of the trade unions, which is a plan for the transport sector. Then we have the long-term plan, which is a plan for the defense. What we want here today – the Central Party wants a decision on the table today – is that the parties should follow up their party programmes and create an external framework for funding that creates stability and is not least a prerequisite for creating an overall long-term plan where this is to be implemented. I record that you don't want to support this, and it's a very bad thing. It would have given better room for planning, it would have given opportunities to have a different approach to the next long-term plan, and it would have definitely given a strong signal that Norway is taking its obligations towards NATO seriously. That's what the majority today chooses not to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e818	I'm just going to finish by thanking you for a good debate, and then I'm going to have to do some visits. To the representative of Nordlund: I have never said that debating the chief of defence's professional military council weakens the defence or debate, but the centre party travels around and claims that I have said so. I have repeatedly said in this Chamber that the Professional Military Council of the Defence Chief shall be open. I see no reason to close it. Nevertheless, even though the representative has heard me say so today, he is trying to go up and create the impression that I have said something else. The history of Liv Signe Navarsete and Jens Stoltenberg is open to debate. For some others who have also participated in international policies, European policies, security policies and defence policies, the unpredictable environment and events began in 2008 in Georgia with Russia’s reaction that Georgia as a state would choose its defence policy cooperation. They wanted to choose that cooperation from national interests; they wanted to apply for membership of NATO. It is timely for Liv Signe Navarsete and Jens Stoltenberg to say that everything changed just after they left the responsibility, but it is enough that some of us disagree with that description of history. It's a reality that the basic work we started with in the long-term plan we're in now enables us to build a better land power, it enables us to build a better air defense, and it enables us to build a better marine. That's one of the reasons why we could compensate for the "Helge Ingstad" event in the short term. To the representative of the Central Party who brought it up with cyber: I fully agree. It's a very important field. It is an important field of societal preparedness in Norway in general, it is a field that is dealt with both in NATO and in Norwegian defence in particular, and it is a field on which we cooperate in both Nordic, Nordic-Baltic and NATO contexts. It's a field that depends on knowledge sharing to be able to be where we are, so we're also working towards the EU and others in that field. To the representative Iversen, who thinks we're building down the standby: there were two helicopters that could do the rescue operation when the trawler got stuck in the Hinlau. During the red-green government there were not two so big helicopters on Svalbard, so that rescue operation would probably not have been possible, at least much more difficult then. The introduction of a Super Puma helicopter number two on Svalbard for emergency purposes made possible a very complicated rescue operation in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e835	First, I want to say that I'm glad that you've increased the preparedness on Svalbard by stationing two Super Puma helicopters there, and that should just be missing when we see the increased activity in the Arctic. That is what the representative, Adelsten Iversen, also called for — how to put forward a government plan to step up emergency work in the Arctic now that we see increased activity and, not least, opportunities for increased economic benefits in the northern regions. That leads me to the declaration of government, which I am sitting with, where the northern regions have not been mentioned in a single word. Then it's no wonder that representatives from the north are getting a bit confused about what the government really wants to do, when you haven't even looked at how you want to take care of and not least strengthen the preparedness in the north. Nevertheless, it has been done in some areas, and in winter we have seen that it has been good. So over to what made me take the word again. It is really about the Minister of Defence in the debate, in the exchange of lines, saying that using the chief of defence's professional military advice out in the debate, he perceived as an almost ruling technique, which weakens the authority of the chief of defence. That was at least what was the content of that sentence, and if I have misunderstood that the defence minister said so, I shall read the record with interest. But if it is that the minister is of the opinion that there was no message he wanted to convey, I look forward to an explanation from his side.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e842	Liv Signe Navarsete has held the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e848	A brief remark was attached to Tybring-Gjedde's post, for he asserted with weight that the Center Party is not happy with the head of defense: yes, we have very much respect for the head of defense. That's exactly why we want his priorities on the table when it comes to total health, not just in the areas where the government wants to develop, as we have said. When it comes to populism, I'll say, Look who's talking! About tax bills, which Tybring-Gjedde lifted up, versus food: Well, food is important, also in emergency hangout, as former defense chief Sunde was very clear. We see what lack of food can lead to. So the priorities will vary. Of course, if we were to give priority to defence, if we had had such a stepping-up plan, we would have looked at containment based on many priorities, but we do not get that debate. We don't get a long-term plan that's mandatory.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e857	I said that claiming that the Chief of Defense's professional-military advice doesn't come out openly was a rule technique. I justify that I have said countless times in this Chamber that I see no reason to keep the professional military council secret. When the Center Party continues to doubt that particular part, it's a rule technique. Then Nordlund gets to check the records repeatedly, because it looks like it's saying a little bit late in. As far as the trade union council is concerned, we have a lot of knowledge from the previous work the head of defence did, which can be used, simply because things take time to establish. Then we have some new trends that we want to look at. Remember, the cyber domain, which was correctly developed as an important domain by the Central Party representative, was established as a private domain in the defence context of NATO in 2016. So new is the experience of how important this is for the Defense. So it's established as the fourth domain now. Space, satellite, is the fifth. But it was in 2016 that NATO took on the idea that this could be an important tool in defence as well. That's why it's important to also look at new fields, and that's why it's important that we take with us the knowledge we have that is right and take it further, and then we use energy to see what new trends exist in the security situation. That is what we are building a good defense for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e866	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e882	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that – within the allocated speaking time – up to five rows of replies are given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e891	The representative of Bruun-Gundersen, who is the case rapporteur, is prevented from being present, so I keep the post for her. Among other things, as a result of immigration from countries with poor vaccination coverage, measles are strongly emerging in Europe. According to the World Health Organisation, the number of people infected increased by 400 pst. in 2017. In Norway, however, vaccination coverage is good, and most Norwegian parents loyally end up in the public babysitting programme. Children coming from abroad, including refugees and asylum seekers, are included in the paediatric vaccination programme in the same way as all other children. These are followed up in the same way – with the offer of vaccines they have not already received. In the proposal for a representative, the Workers' Party proposes that the municipalities which so wish be given the possibility of mandatory MMR vaccination. Reference is made to the long-term desire of the Municipality of Oslo to carry out a test project with mandatory convocation for vaccination of children under 16 years of age. The proposal of the Workers' Party does not provide for compulsory vaccination of children. Very familiar, there are no parties that do it today. I therefore have problems seeing that the proposal for mandatory convocation will have some practical consequences, as all children are routinely called to check at the health centre and school health service today. The country group of health sisters has been critical of the proposal as it stands. It is important to listen to the first line service. The country group of health sisters suggests that Norway has a record high level of vaccination coverage and that it has been increasing in recent years. We also see that national guidelines for health centre and school health services were evaluated and updated in August 2018, and there is a strong recommendation for regular calls for health control and home visits. Municipalities already have the tools they need to ensure good vaccination coverage. At the national vaccination centre, SYSVAK, quality lists are collected twice a year from the vaccination control system at 2, 8, and 15 years of age, respectively. The lists are sent to the health centres in each municipality for the purpose of following up the children who have not followed the vaccination programme, with an offer of missing vaccines. All the time when no party has proposed compulsory vaccination of children, the Progress Party has difficulty in seeing the practical consequences of the proposal. The municipality already has broad instruments, and vaccination coverage in Norway is generally good. We join the Country Group of Health Sisters' objection that it is unclear which coercive agents may wish to use to enforce a mandatory convocation. Without such coercive measures, the proposal in our view will not imply any practical change from today's system.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e906	The children’s vaccination programme is a right for all children, wherever they live, regardless of the background of their parents. There is – as has been said earlier here – a high uptake of the paediatric vaccination programme. As we can read from the setting, there is also broad political support for this. According to the WHO, measles are in strong growth in Europe. Developments in countries around us make us feel that there is a need for a more active precautionary attitude. When parents refuse to vaccinate their children, the flock protection is reduced and those who are prevented from being vaccinated – due to disease or other health conditions – are exposed to an unnecessary risk. The municipality of Oslo has long wanted to carry out a test project with mandatory call for vaccination of children under 16 years of age. Vaccine coverage varies between urban areas. In 2016 it was in one city on 94 p.m., in another on 77 p.m. The Public Health Institute is clear that in order to prevent epidemics of measles, we depend on that 95 pst. the population is fully vaccinated. The proportion of adults is too low in some places, and those who leave away from vaccinating their children are also putting other children at risk. If the coverage falls below a certain percentage, the whole of public health may be compromised. In order to prevent and reduce the inequality of vaccination rates between urban areas, the Workers' Party considers that it should be possible to carry out a test project with a mandatory call for MMR vaccination. It will also be useful to gain more knowledge and experience, which we can also use to strengthen the paediatric vaccination programme. As has been said earlier here, the proposal for mandatory vaccination is not about mandatory convocation. I think it'll be useful. A stronger request for use of current vaccine offers can be seen, and qualified health professionals can contribute to a fact-based discussion of the implications of vaccination. In several countries around us, skepticism grows into vaccines. The WHO was well on track with the goal of eradicating measles by 2010, as they managed with cups in 1979. But the vaccine propaganda has put an end to it. It should be in our common interest to gain more knowledge by making such a test project possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e921	Should the representative make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e926	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e931	The representative Elise Bjørnebeck-Waaagen then drew up the proposal from the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e936	It is worrying that measles are in strong growth in Europe. Measles can cause serious additional diseases, and many children may experience immunodeficiency for several years after the outbreak. We don't know how lucky we are as we now have available measles vaccines. I had measles myself when I was not good enough – it all had at that time – and I think I was very bad. I'm glad my kids get the vaccine and let go of such a disease, and that there's good vaccine coverage in Norway, and I'm glad Norwegian parents are ending up loyally about the public babysitting program. The Public Health Institute's recommendation is that at least 95 pst. of the population should be fully-vaccinated in order to prevent epidemics, and that level is clear to us in Norway until now. In other countries, such as France and Italy, compulsory vaccination has been introduced for all vaccines in the paediatric vaccination programme from 2018. I want to warn you that this is what we're thinking in Norway, because there's no holding point for compulsory vaccination to increase vaccination coverage. The country group of health sisters refers to the fact that a health centre and school health service is a voluntary offer based on trust and the introduction of mandatory vaccination is contrary to this principle of volunteering and also to the principle of consent-based health care. Nor can they see what sanctions can be imposed without rocking by family trust in health services. Today, families have a duty to participate in health control for children, and through the SYSVAK pediatric vaccination programme, municipalities and urban districts have an overview of which people lack vaccination. In this way, the health service can today call in and follow up on the individual child who is missing a vaccine. From birth all children will be called up regularly for consultation and vaccination through this paediatric vaccination programme. So what does the Labour Party actually propose today? They do not propose mandatory vaccination. They propose ‘mandatory convocation’ for vaccination. But what does that mean? For all children, they are regularly called up for consultation and vaccination. Is it mandatory attendance the Labour Party thinks? And what are they going to change in the infectious diseases laws and regulations to do this? So I do not understand the proposal. And then they connect health care to the use of sanctions. I think I'm eye-catching, and the Center Party does not support such a principle in Norwegian healthcare. We are some with the Country Group of Health Sisters in that good information is the best tool to improve vaccination coverage in Norway. With this, I propose the Senterpartiet and SV's alternative proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e949	The representative Kjersti Toppe has drawn up the proposal she made.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e954	First of all, I would like to thank the Council of State for supplementary letters of reply, which highlight important points in the matter. There is no doubt that some of the most important thing is to ensure a high degree of vaccination – I think we all agree on that. Ensuring that more people are vaccinated is very important. We all know someone who is at risk or who has a poor immune system, or who cannot be vaccinated. We have a great responsibility to protect these groups. So let there be no doubt about where SV is standing, or about our commitment to this matter. In Norway, vaccination rates are still high, and this is good. I will support the intention of the Labour Party's proposal, but at the same time I will be very careful to make this mandatory. Like the Central Party, I do not fully understand where the Workers' Party wants the proposal. Studies show that there is no direct link between the level of mandatory and the degree of participation. We therefore join the Country Group of Health Sisters and the Institute of Public Health, that there are other and more effective instruments that should be given priority. It is incredibly important to have more information about which groups are not vaccinated today and how we can reach these groups. That is why we want an investigation aimed at precisely this, to find the target audience, the causes and the right measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e963	I don't want to miss any experience of waking up a dying child, where one does not know the end of and does not see an end to the disease, where one is unsure whether the infection wins or whether the body wins. It arouses feelings that are not to be described. That is why I am pleased that we in Norway have a strong protection against infectious diseases. A few generations ago, there were infectious diseases that you could die of in this country. A tear in the finger could mean amputation and what was worse. We were actually completely helpless with the infections. The vaccines have eradicated one disease, cups, but we have also shut down quite a number of other diseases. If we talk to the generation before us, they can tell us about the kings of tuberculosis and about polio, who rescued Norway like a bore. Nevertheless, we have forces in Norway that are pre-defendering vaccine resistance, which believes that disease is healthy, which believes it is good for children to experience these diseases we are vaccinated against. I would like to encourage them to identify the person who has become better and stronger by undergoing tuberculosis, who has come well out of polio, who has seen that chick coughs and measles have given them a better life. This is heresy that should be controlled. However, it should not be combated by injunctions, it should be combated by knowledge and attitudes, and it must be the attitudes of all of us who are concerned with the best, who win over those who are foreshadowing their wrong view. I don't think any more instructions are the way to go, except for health professionals working with sick people. We have to be able to expect them to be vaccinated. I would like to thank the Workers' Party for their commitment to the vaccine coverage with us, but I do not understand this proposal, like the representative Toppe. I don't understand the sanction options one points to, like. refusing people to travel to areas with outbreaks. How is that to be enforced? A municipality can call people for vaccination, and they do, that's not the problem. The problem is that we have people in Norway who think vaccines are harmful. The problem is that we have people in Norway who think there is a link between vaccines and selected diseases. The problem is that we have people like Donald Trump, who believe that Wakefield had a point when he pointed to the relationship between the triple vaccine and autism, something Lancet, who published the unfortunate study, has denied time after time and lamented. We do not win this battle with more orders and regulations. We win this fight with good public information and by standing up together against the pointless.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e975	Now I think very much has been said from this pulpit in this matter. Vaccines, it turns out this is an important topic. I would like to say to the representative of Stensland – with her call for awareness of the responsibilities you have – that this is a timely reminder. I would also like to thank the proposers for putting this on the agenda, and I support the Committee's opinions that we cannot accept that children in Norway are being put at risk by an increase in the incidence of fatal diseases. Vaccines are one of the most effective forms of disease prevention we have. Following the establishment of the pediatric vaccination programme, as previously stated, Measles, red dogs, diphtheria and polio almost disappeared in Norway. In the Granavolden platform, the government emphasises the need to continue to open up the pediatric vaccination programme and, in particular, to consider new measures to ensure this. Among other things, I have asked the Institute of Public Health to monitor vaccination attitudes across different target groups, and it would respond without any part of the challenges that other representatives have raised here. But I have also asked the Institute of Public Health to analyse the risk and vulnerability of a weakening of today's vaccination recommendations, and not least what this will look like in the years to come. We have good coverage in the paediatric vaccination programme. The national vaccination register, SYSVAK, tells us that the population has actually increased in recent years. The Public Health Institute and its health centres are working systematically and continuously to inform the population of the benefits of vaccination and also to motivate participation in the paediatric vaccination programme. There is something unclear about the concept of ‘mandatory convocation’. Parents today have an obligation to contribute to health control for children. This is the result of the Patient and User Rights Act § 6-1. Health centres also have procedures to provide information to parents who do not want to be vaccinated, as well as to follow-up of children who do not meet for hours or who are constantly shifting from one hour to another. There is no evidence that mandatory calls for vaccination would be a better instrument for health control and follow-up of children compared to current legislation and practices. There is a significant risk that mandatory measures could impair the confidence of health professionals and health authorities. The Institute of Public Health is particularly concerned that it could lead to a reduction in trust in the community health service. And if there's something that doesn't benefit this area, it's a reduced trust. I feel confident that today there is no basis for saying that mandatory measures are necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e990	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e995	Now, as we've seen, there's variation in the vaccine rate in urban areas and single environments. Even though the total looks good, there are individual pockets where we're not up in the 95 pst. where we want to be, and that's a big challenge for those who can't be vaccinated, and for children under 15 months of age. Now we have heard the Council of State describe that she has ordered analyses and surveys of the vaccine rate. We in the Workers' Party believe that we need to implement new tools in order to be guided where and in order to gain new knowledge about how to align ourselves in the future. That is why we want a pilot project. But what will the Council of State use these analyses and surveys for the future? Have the Council of State considered some measures for how we are going to meet this vaccine resistance that we are seeing around us, in the years that are coming?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e1002	What's important to us is what we've also started, and as I mentioned in my post, a survey of which groups don't meet. Even today, there are already requirements for clear guidelines on how to convene and how this interaction must be. We see that the ICT solutions of the future will also be involved and provide better interaction, where we can better identify those who do not meet and, not least, take targeted action – as we can see in some parts of Oslo, where we also have information in other languages and the ability to go targeted after those groups that it does not show up well enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e1007	It is positive to target efforts, to take initiatives where the initiatives are needed. But I don't think it's right to meet this challenge of saying: more of the same. We see that other countries around us have come to terms with the fact that mandatory vaccination measures have been taken, which have been encountered in an unfortunate way. Then I think it's right for us to use the possibilities that are there, by acquiring more knowledge through a test project for the municipalities that want it, which makes it possible to make a stronger request to the parents. It could be an opportunity to provide exactly what information is needed. So my question is again: what are the new measures that the Council of State could see taken separately in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e1014	I answered that in the first answer. We already have those mapping tools, we're looking at special groups that might have a bigger challenge. And it's not right that other countries we compare with have a higher degree of vaccination because they have compulsory vaccination. Had it turned out that was the case, it is clear that it would be quite different. But we succeed with high percentages in terms of vaccination coverage, in the way we have put up here in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e1019	The centre party has an alternative proposal in the vote, asking the government to take action to raise awareness of the paediatric vaccination programme, in collaboration with health professionals both nationally and municipally, and to inform the Stortinge in its own way. This proposal has been taken from the point of view of the Landgroup of Health Sisters as an input to this proposal for a representative. Now this proposal doesn't get multiples, but I'm going to assume that the plural is not against what it says, anyway. I want to ask the Council of State what it sees can be strengthened in the work that is going on continuously, and then I'm thinking about what can be done to raise national awareness. Because I think what's important is to prevent vaccine resistance and increase knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e1026	I share that view, that it is now important to look at new actions in terms of getting knowledge and information even better than it is now. It is a new point in the Granavolden Declaration that is just about how we should look at and ensure the good work that is already there. That's why we've started a lot of action, and of course I want to take the tape here from the Center Party and look at different ways in which we can get out even better. We may have a target of one hundred percent vaccine coverage. The goal for us is to get the best possible and in the way that it has the greatest possible effect, so if that's exactly what I think we have a consistent opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e1033	It has been assessed to have some national detention campaigns or information campaigns, or is thinking more about informing young children’s parents through health stations, schools, etc.? Or do we want to see more of both?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e1038	I can't say exactly which direction we're going to go, but we're looking at it very much. I think we should raise our eyes a little bit and not just look at the pediatric vaccination program, but look at vaccines in general, as a whole, both for those of us who might want to have a refresher, and then we have the influenza vaccine, which has been a theme here before, and we also have adult vaccination programs for new countrymen who may not have that background from childhood. So I think we're going to approach this challenge a little bit wider. That's why I want to come back to how we're going to align this gradually, but this is an important area for us to look at, not least in relation to developments internationally. We're going to be very much on, and we're going to be very closely following the evolution that's going on out there, so we're in the forefront.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e1043	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e1049	We are lucky to be able to take the MMR vaccine in Norway, as in other countries. protects against measles, which is a very contagious childhood disease and the most serious of the childhood diseases. That is why I am pleased that the Norwegian population is essentially finishing up on this public vaccination package. Nevertheless, some urban areas in Oslo are struggling to avoid all vaccination, and it is important to find the reason for this. There may be language problems, there may be cultural differences, it may simply be that you didn't grow up with our vaccination program, or it can rely on health care, or experience from your home country, or fear or misunderstanding. That's why it's so important that we actively follow up on this. It's not about how we call, but about how we follow up and inform about the danger of not vaccinating. Our health system is based on volunteering, and it is based on informed consent. I would warn against tightening up the infectious disease law and limiting the individual's choice – to give free, informed consent. The second paragraph of Section 3 to 8 of the Code provides that the Ministry may provide that the population, or parts thereof, shall be required to be vaccinated in order to prevent a serious outbreak of a general dangerous infectious disease. In Norway, we have not died as a result of measles in recent times. Yeah, there's a lot of it worldwide, and it's very sad, and it's caused, among other things. Malnutrition is due, inter alia, to: refugees who do not have access to hospitals. In Norway, we have had some comments, no later than 2017 three were posted with measles, but fortunately we have such a good hospital service that we can handle it. We even handled Ebola here to land. When France introduced mandatory vaccination in 2018, this led to many French people reacting. According to the figures from The Economist, four out of ten French people believe that it is not safe to vaccinate their children. We do not want this kind of development in the Progress Party in Norway. We don't want a development where people, for example. have to pay the fine, if that is what someone wants – now it has not come as a suggestion here – we do not want it to be a criterion for going to school. Few take advantage of the right to reserve, because of trust, and challenging it can easily lead to vaccine resistance. Professionals want something else. Let's use the best tool – to improve vaccination coverage.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e1062	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e1078	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be a replacement of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e1087	Representatives from SV have made proposals to introduce a professional authorisation scheme for child protection education and social work by extending health professionals to these professions. In this setting, a joint committee indicates that such an authorisation scheme has been evaluated several times before, including in the past. in connection with the introduction of the Nav reform in 2008. Today, 29 health professionals’ groups are authorised to operate in healthcare professionals’ housing. A joint committee believes that there are arguments to authorize child protection educators and socionomers. Many work in the health and care services, especially in municipalities, but education is not a health education primarily, and the majority work outside the health and care services, as in Nav, in the child protection sector and in the education sector. The Committee points out that today a distribution work under the auspices of Buffdir is under way with a review of skills requirements for leaders and, where appropriate, authorisation as one of many measures to enhance the competence of child protection. In its letter to the Committee, the Council of State recommends that any authorisation scheme for these groups should be assessed by legislation under other departments and not by health professionals. The government party writes in a note that they support the government introducing competence requirements and authorisation in the child protection service. The centre party and the Labour Party support proposals in the setting to ask the government to ensure the implementation of a profession-specific authorisation scheme for pedagogues and socionomists. We refer to NOU 2017: 12, Failure and betrayal, which mentions an authorisation scheme, and that this will help increase trust, quality and professionalism in the services and increase legal certainty for the children and their parents. For the Centre Party, it is important that a profession-specific authorisation for pedagogues and socionomists should be valid irrespective of the sector in which they work. These professions are in contact with vulnerable users in a range of public services, not only in the field of child protection. The NOU does not draw a conclusion as to the law in which such an authorisation scheme is to be relied upon or the body responsible for the authorisation. We are also concerned that the introduction of competence requirements and authorisation must take into account the interdisciplinary nature of the supply to be made and of the municipal self-government. We see that there are arguments to allow an authorisation both in healthcare professionals and in other laws, but for us it is less important. The most important thing is that an authorisation is valid irrespective of the sector in which the professional is assigned. With that, I take up the proposal that the Centre Party is on.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e1106	The representative Kjersti Toppe has drawn up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e1111	I want to start by thanking the proposers for lifting this very matter. We in the Workers' Party fully agree that a professional authorisation system should be established for child protection educators and socionomists. As the NOU points out, such a system could contribute to increased trust and quality and professionalism in services, and could also provide greater legal certainty for children and their parents. By granting an authorisation, there is also the possibility of withdrawing an authorisation. Sosionists and child protection educators maintain a high level of trust on behalf of the community. An authorisation system could help to ensure quality, and in cases where an employee does not have a conduct compatible with professional practice, we can respond as a society, namely to the exclusion of an authorisation. The most important thing for the Workers' Party is the introduction of a profession-specific authorisation scheme, not the law in which it is based. In any case, the instruments must be secured. An authorisation scheme reserved only for child-restraint services could result in unnecessary red tape. Child protection educators and socionomists manage trust in different services, and the distinction between a child protection employee and a family protection employee is considered unnatural and inappropriate. Most also change jobs during their professional career. Building thresholds by applying for an authorisation every time you go back to the first line of child protection, we think it is unfortunate. The Labour Party believes that there is a need for a quality reform of child protection, and on 1 February we presented a number of proposals. A number of concerns have been raised politically and professionally in relation to municipal child protection. We see examples of this through the New Child Protection Act, the National Audit Office's report, and not least failure and betrayal. Most of the children's services carry out their task confidently and in a good way, but where this is not the case, we must have the opportunity to do a quality assurance. Together with the Workers' Party's proposal for a quality reform for the protection of children, we believe that an authorisation scheme could contribute to raising the quality of child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e1126	A good childhood lasts life. Similarly, a bad childhood can have consequences for generations. Good growing-up conditions for our children are a priority area for the government. Children are vulnerable and have a special need for protection, care and love. This proposal deals with the issue of pediatric and social education in accordance with health professionals, in spite of the fact that we know that pediatric and social education does not have a health education that primarily targets the health and care services. In fact, the majority work in the child protection sector, in the education sector or in Nav. In addition, the proposal for a representative states that there is already a distribution work in Bufdir on an authorisation scheme for staff working in the Child Protection Service. A few weeks ago, we got a new government platform. It is just stated that the government will introduce competence requirements and authorisation in the municipal child protection services. However, the fact that this is to be done through health professionals is not necessarily correct. The government will pursue a policy that will enable all children and young people to have a safe and well-growth that will provide opportunities for everyone. Children and young people are our most important resource, and the care of the child's best is absolutely fundamental. On the other hand, this proposal will not necessarily bring us closer to that objective.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e1137	Our children are the dearest thing we have. They should be protected and taken care of. They will experience love, care and respect. They shall be safe and secure. But sometimes it's not like that. Repeatedly, we can read about children who live in a home characterized by carelessness, power and intoxication, children who are abused physically and mentally at the most. Worst it may be when the attackers are trustees – people who are very close to the child. We cannot allow this in Norway. That's why we strengthen the police, we build children's homes, we strengthen the health centres, the pediatric services and the pediatric services, and we oblige the municipalities to have psychologists from 2020. In our long-term country, we have built up a municipal child protection service – a service to be made up of children’s rescue women and men, but unfortunately a service that has not always proved to work as it should. We all have a responsibility for this. Therefore, I am particularly pleased that the Norwegian authorities have seen the seriousness and have taken action. Bufdir is in the process of obtaining authorisation in the field of child protection and the competence requirements for child-restraint leaders and addees and for the services in general. Increased skills are important to improve the quality of the services provided. Involvement in child protection often involves complex assessments and distributions, and they have the right to put in place measures that can be very interventional for both children and families. The Child Protection Act, which provides for the protection of children, currently does not contain any specific requirement for the competence of municipal child protection. This distinguishes child protection from, for example: the nursery, school and health sectors – without such a difference in the need for child protection competence. Today, we are debating the need for authorisation for child protection educators and socionomers. Both are professional groups working with vulnerable and caring children and adults. The main objective of the authorisation scheme is to ensure the safety of users and patients and to contribute to the high quality of services. Professional recognition means a pre-check that one is a strata, that one has the necessary professional knowledge and skills, and that one is owned and has the personal properties required. Health surveillance has previously stated that an authorisation system will ensure that both unauthorised persons are unable to work in the field of child protection and social services and that the subject is subject to a continuous assessment of what is unacceptable or irresponsible. It's very important. I mean quite clearly that users of child protection and social services must be able to set the same standards of professional practice as patients in the healthcare system can. But I mean, as the Minister of Health, it won't be natural to give these groups authorisation after health care professionals. How an authorisation scheme in the field of child protection should be set up, I left to Buffdir to make suggestions. I look forward to the selection that will present the recommendations of their autumn 2019.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e1152	Those organising pediatric and social education, as well as user organisations such as the National Children’s Protection Association, have long struggled to ensure that child protection educators and socionomists are given an authorisation scheme similar to that of health professionals. The scheme is wanted by many, meets few counter-arguments and is introduced in other Nordic countries. However, this has not yet been introduced in Norway, despite the fact that some organisations have worked to get it in place for 40 years. That is why SV believes that the time has come to take a binding decision in the Stortinget, so that the authorisation system can finally be put in place. As of today, there is an investigation into an authorisation scheme in the Directorate for Children, Youth and Family, but the work is expected to take at least one more year, and there are few indications of the type of authorisation scheme to be investigated. Therefore, the SV wants a political decision to seek a professional authorisation scheme by extending the Health Care Professionals Act to those professions as well. This is in contrast to a less desirable model that is field-specific, e.g. in the protection of children. Such a scheme would be unfortunate, as many child protection educators and socionomists work in different fields at different times, but have in common that they work with vulnerable children. The professional groups of child protection educators and sociologists work in, among other things. child protection, nav or mental health protection. We also know that many of the employees work with the most vulnerable children, and they are themselves vulnerable groups with tough jobs and can even face a lot of resistance. Nor is it possible to conceal the fact that many of them experience mistrust related to the practice of the profession and in their everyday lives. Therefore, they need the stamp of approval of society in order to gain increased trust. In addition, an authorisation scheme, as mentioned above, may help to secure the community and vulnerable users against any staff who do not work properly by allowing the authorisation to be withdrawn. We have seen that there is an investigation work going on and presented our proposal in connection with it. However, in the large picture, it is not important which law this is implemented in, nor is it important which department this is done under. So I want to promote our proposal, and we are going to support the proposal of the Central Party and the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e1163	The representative Sheida Sangtarash has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e1168	The representative’s proposal from the representatives of the Supreme Court, Lerbreck and Andersen is about a professional authorisation for child protection educators and sociologists. These representatives thus refer to a matter of hearts of the Joint Organisation, FO, which organises socionomists, child protection educators, caregivers and welfare suites. The proposers also refer to a distribution in the Children’s, Youth and Family Directorate, Bufdir. The distribution is about an addition to child protection, which shall require some form of authorisation. How such an authorisation is to be granted and how such an authorisation is to be implemented is not yet known. What we know is that Bufdir is going to assess whether an authorisation is to be given directly to people, on the basis of the addition of child protection, or whether there are certain professionals who are to be authorised to work in the field of child protection. Here are pedagogues and socionomaries under consideration. In other words, Bufdir’s distribution does not deal with child protection educators and socionomists shall be granted an authorisation on the basis of their education alone, with an authorisation for an activity in the field of child protection. Such a type of authorisation to work in child protection is the current policy in the Granavolden platform. If I understand the proposers correctly, it seems that these representatives are proposing the authorisation of child protection educators and socionomists on the basis of completed education. The Christian People's Party believes that such a proposal should be debated on a more thorough basis than a proposal for a representative. However, the representative proposal has highlighted an important challenge in the possible authorisation of child protection educators and socionomists on the basis of completed education. It is about the law to which such an authorisation should be connected. As state councillor Höie correctly pointed out in his letter to the Health and Care Committee, sociologists and child protection educators work within more laws than just health professionals. It would have been exciting with a selection that could sort this out and look at the competences and tasks of social professionals. In my opinion, socionomists and child protection educators work with physical, mental and social health. Social professionals work with complex social problems, which are difficult to find simple solutions to. A thought of cause–effect is difficult to practice in working life. We humans are complex, and it naturally affects the work of those who are going to help us.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e1179	As I pointed out in my letter to the Committee on 29 June, a large number of child protection educators and social workers are also employed in health care, especially in the municipal health and care services. In addition, the Health and Welfare Act now regulates the responsibilities of the municipality for some social services, and thus also indirect social personnel, in a common law relating to the responsibilities of the municipality for health and care services. This can be cited as arguments for authorising child protection educators and socionomists. However, I still believe that it would not be natural to give these groups authorisation under the Health Care Act. Education and training of staff is not a vocational health education primarily directed at health care. After what I experience, the majority of people work outside the health and care services, among other things. in the child protection sector, in the education sector or in Nav. I also point out that patient safety considerations will be respected even if child protection educators and socionomists are not included in the health professionals’ authorisation scheme, since the Health Care Act applies in any case to health professionals working in the healthcare and providing health care. As regards the health professionals' authorisation system and the legal effects of authorisation, I refer you to the statement of this in my letter to the Committee. I therefore agree with the majority of the Committee that no decision should be taken to authorise child protection educators and socionomists under the Health Care Act and that no decision should be taken on a profession-specific authorisation scheme for child protection educators and socionomists. As the representatives refer to in their proposal, which is also repeated in the committee position, there is currently an investigation in the Children’s, Youth and Family Directorate into an authorisation system for personnel working in the field of child protection. This ongoing investigation indicates, in my view, that no decision should be taken to authorise child protection educators and socionomists under the Health Care Professional Act or a professional authorisation scheme for child protection educators and socionomists.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e1189	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e1194	Actually, I just have a very simple question. It is now also laid down in the Government Platform that such an authorisation system is to be introduced. My question is, when does the Council of State realize that this will come into place?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e1199	Now it is the case that the authorisation system investigated in Bufdir is not under my responsibility, so I do not have the opportunity to give any very specific answer to it. This is now the government's policy, but an investigation is to be carried out first.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e1204	In its reply of 29 June 2018, the Council of State states that ‘any authorisation scheme for these groups should in that case be assessed in accordance with legislation under the responsibility of other departments’. Is it, then, that the Council of State agrees with SV that a profession-specific authorisation for these groups is important? Can he on behalf of the government say if it is planned to work to get this in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e1211	I have not said that I agree with SV in it, but I say that if one had a separate authorisation scheme based on education, not on where a worker, it would be more natural for such a scheme to be enshrined in a law other than the Health Care Act, since – I know – most of those who have this education, not in health care, but in other public services, and since the consideration that is particularly important for healthcare, namely patient safety, is ensured by the fact that everyone who works in healthcare, regardless of their education, is subject to the requirements of the law in that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e1216	As I also said in my post, it is not important which law this is implemented under, or which department is doing this. What I'm asking is whether the government actually cares about working on setting up a profession-specific authorisation scheme for these groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e1221	What the government is working on is an authorisation scheme for those who are going to work in the field of child protection. It is under the responsibility of another State Council, but there is a great deal of work to ensure the quality and competence of those services. In the case of health care, for which I am responsible, regardless of the law requirements will apply if a health care worker, regardless of what education you have.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e1226	I fully understand that this is not the main function and responsibility of the Council of State, but I wonder anyway, when one has now defined in the new government platform that this should be a field-specific profession scheme to work with, if one also takes into account in this investigation that this can lead to more bureaucracy. We know there's a 19 pst tournament. in child protection services, and the need to be able to apply for more, but a new authorisation system, for each change of job, could lead to more red tape. Even as a representative of the government than necessarily of the Ministry of Health, I wonder if the Council of State has made any thoughts about this, and whether he might share it with his government colleagues.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e1233	I expect that this is one of the questions that the investigation will answer. When one does that type of investigation work in Bufdir, one will look at both the advantages and disadvantages of different solutions and models, so I expect that we will get good answers and that the investigation work is concerned with. And of course, the government is generally concerned with little bureaucracy and good arrangements. However, it is also important to ensure the competence and quality of child protection services, which is an important part of government policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e1238	The cord shift is over. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e1256	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, the opportunity be given to alternates of up to six lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e1265	We are preparing a review of the report of the Court of Auditors on the annual audit and control for the financial year 2017 – an important document in the relation between government and corruption. Let me start by saying that it is – almost as usual – very good. For the purposes of the audit of accounts, only five of them found significant deviations in 2017 from 217 accounts. Another thing that I think is good with this report is that it also refers to previous reports from the Riksrevision and the follow-up of the departments, and we see clearly that the reports from the Riksrevision – and to the extent that treatment here in Stortinget – help to improve administration in a number of areas. I think we should note together that much works well, and that improvement is done on the basis of professional review. There are some areas that need to be mentioned a little bit special. A transverse area is what is at stake in information security weaknesses. This applies in several parts of the administration, and in particular is mentioned in the Employment and Welfare Act, the Labour Inspectorate, the Children's Protection and Social Affairs Departments and the Securing of Personal Information in the Directorate for Financial Management. The government's maps and research systems are also mentioned. I would like to stress that an overall committee sees it as a problem, especially because it has been mentioned several times. The Committee expects and is concerned that when the Riksrevision finds that the concept of ‘highly critical’ is used, and that sensitive information and personal data may be diverted, the government will address that situation and improve it. So to some other areas, and first to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs: I see that the current Council of State is present in the Chamber. There are some comments related to procurement law, and we underline that. In particular, I would like to point out that the objectives of the unfinished reform – that several disabled people should be able to combine labour income and social security – are not being achieved. That's what the committee is seriously looking at, because one of the major challenges in society is if a large proportion of our population is out of work or kept out of work. A desire to combine a social security situation with full employment opportunities, and to maintain social security for a period of time, but to try out employment, or to be part of a job, is a broad political consensus on the objective of. There is therefore reason to note that the Riksrevision points out that at that point we do not reach the results that are intended. I also point to the seriousness of the fact that the police do not have an overview of a large number of weapons. Once again – I have to take it a little punctuated, because I only have 5 minutes of speaking time – is the defense back in the reports from the National Audit Office. Last year, you couldn't go well with the accounts. There is some improvement this year, but still – and then I refer to the setting – there are a number of references to errors in the financial management of the defence, not least in the context of the establishment of defence equipment, where we say that the preparations have obviously been too poor. Finally, I would like to say something about the special premium on fresh oils. We understand that the Council of State says she won't change the control, but it's a unanimous committee that requires the Ministry to follow up the Riksrevision's criticism, and meets feedback from the Council of State to the Stortinget and feedback from the Riksrevision. I also want to say something short about culture. The Ministry of Culture has, of course, also been revised. There are some points about the Norwegian Film Institute that we're referring to, that the grant management is not efficient and has weaknesses in device, traceability and stability. However, particularly in the case of the Norwegian Sports Association, the Committee has considered it appropriate to point out that, when the Riksrevision, through the revision of the Ministry, conducts internal investigations with external grant beneficiaries, responsibility must be ensured for them, in order to ensure that the impression left in the audit report is correct. It is important for our work that even those who criticize us are protested. Otherwise, there is a unanimous setting at all points.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e1290	The annual audit and audit of the National Audit Office for the financial year is an important document. The National Audit Office is the Supervisory Body of the Storting, which audits state establishments and departments. In this way, we are reported on how government funds are used, whether there are any breaches of or deviations from the Storting decision and the assumptions for using the state funds, and we are given recommendations on changes that should be implemented. In this review, the financial year 2017 is under review. It is good to read that most accounts are of good quality. There are no significant observations on the accounts of the responsibilities of the Prime Minister's Office and most of the departments. As the chairman of the committee said, there are errors in only 5 of the total of 217 accounts, and that's good. But that's not all that's good, and it's rare in audit reports. There is something to be found, and the report has some main findings that are serious and that need to be addressed. I mention e.g.\t\t You can change the settings of Several state enterprises have significant weaknesses in their information security, and there is a need to take more seriously. The seat of employment and welfare has not sufficiently complied with the objective of allowing several disabled persons to combine income and social security and thus maintain a link with the labour market. It's also something you need to focus more on. Bufdir and the Health Inspectorate do not have sufficient quality control and supervision of care centres for single asylum seekers under 15 years of age. And like the last thing I want to mention: the police don't have an overview of a large number of weapons, alarm messages aren't caught up well enough, and there are few checks on the storage of weapons by civilians and traffickers. It is important that these findings are followed up, which I also record that the responsible state councils have said that they have done, or are going to do. The national audit also mentions and points to critical issues in the case of inadequate management, including: economic consequences. Some examples are: Nav has implemented several direct acquisitions and extensions of framework agreements beyond the agreed time without competition. The Directorate for Health has been responsible for approx. half of the allocations examined have not been documented as to whether the objectives of the grants have been achieved. The Norwegian Film Institute lacks clear priorities and objectives for its activities and does not have a system for assessing results and resource use. The Education Directorate has not followed up a significant number of schools where a high risk of government subsidies and school money being made available in breach of the school law has been assessed, whether supervised or otherwise. I record that the annual audit and audit of the National Audit Office for the financial year 2017, with the findings revealed, is taken seriously by the government councils and departments where deviations are detected. Such annual controls are an important document and a basis for the work on improvement which must always have a high priority and a high focus.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e1331	The National Audit Office's annual audit and control of the ministries and state agencies provide us with a comprehensive document that everyone sees is very important. The audit refers to a good overview in many departments, but one of the things that the National Audit Office still takes seriously under the Ministry of Justice and Defence is that the police do not have an overview of a large number of weapons and that there are no recording procedures. The whole Committee shares this concern and, of course, supports all the recommendations of the Riksrevision. Nevertheless, I want to link some words to this particular problem. The revision we are examining today is therefore for the financial year 2017. A good deal has happened in 2018, and I think it might be okay with some information in the matter and look at what the government and department have done since the previous audit. The National Audit Office has also previously pointed out deficiencies in police arms management, and the Ministry of Justice has worked for a long time to get this in place. Hopefully this is happening in 2019. The police directorate has conducted a draft investigation of the arms administration in the police, which was at the hearing in 2018. The investigation shows that the police received about 70 000 weapons requests in 2017, and that Norway has registered under 1.5 million civil weapons, divided into over 490,000 different owners, but that today’s system is too poor. This can have serious consequences, especially for the operative police, but also for, for example, the police. ambulance staff, who, as of today, do not have an overview of what is inside the four walls of the house if they have to move out. In the preparation of the draft investigation, the working group met with several police districts and other relevant actors. Among other things, they were in my hometown, where they met with the Northland police district. The theme of this work meeting was digital solutions and the use of a national weapons register. Since 2014, in former Helgeland police districts, Northern Ireland has been working on the possible digitisation of the work process, and model three of that concept investigation is similar to today’s organisation in Northern Ireland, so we have started working locally. All arms administration in the Northland police district is now assembled in the Baltic Sea. All applications for a weapons permit are dealt with there. The unit is also responsible for all control activities and prevention activities in the police district. This work is carried out in cooperation with local police. Decisions were also taken on the refusal and withdrawal of authorisations. A project description has been prepared across a national arms management centre and the competence for digitisation has been developed in cooperation with the Brønn Island Health Registers, where platforms were developed to see how this type of system could be developed with Altinn as a platform. What is desired is increased social security through control and prevention, as well as the effectiveness and quality of arms management. I think this is the way to go -- we have to set up a digital, national weapons register. There is now money for the planning phase, and after I have been informed about it, the police will start this in the near future. Initially, I said that the audit we are examining today is for the financial year 2017. I think that's important to point out, because it shows that things take time. The fact that we are now considering 2017 in 2019 shows that we should perhaps try to get the reports a little earlier. A desired situation would have been that the revision of a year could come earlier, for example: in June or October of the following year. I've taken this up with the National Audit Office before, and I'm going to do it again. In any case, finally, the annual audit and control of the departments and state activities of the National Audit Office is a comprehensive and important document. This is probably some of the most important information we get every year. I personally think that the document should be read by all those in this room, regardless of their position or committee affiliation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e1354	Some comments on the Riksrevision report - the reports are very useful for Storting's work, and I assume that they are also useful for the government's own work, with underpants, etc. Only a few comments beyond what the case spokesperson drew up, and mentioned in previous articles, on information security: It is a recurring theme for Stortinget. It's an area where vulnerability doesn't get smaller with years, as the possibilities to affect systems from outside just increase and it's cheaper and easier to operate from outside to influence and extract information that the country has about the population. The fact that the Employment and Welfare Act, the Labour Inspectorate, the Children's Protection and Social Affairs Department, the Directorate for Economic Management, the State Maps and the Research Systems have all been developed as a problem area for information security is a major problem. It makes us vulnerable, it makes personal information useful and misleading, and it is also a problem for the whole management of personal data in general. I want to draw up something that the Riksrevision has not chosen to emphasise in its review of the Reform. It is quite right, as the National Audit Office points out, that the objective of the misreform to combine labour income with social security has not been achieved. The Committee stands together to point out that misunderstanding. But another area, which was also part of the pre-reform process, was the economic impact on the victims of the misreform. The reform in 2011 had a clear commitment that after the reform people would achieve the same performance as before. The numbers show that they haven't got it. In a letter sent by the current Minister of Labour Robert Eriksson to Mr Kirsti Bergstø, mentioned in the remarks in the vote, it is documented by the government itself that 14,260 people lost more than NOK 6000 a year after tax as a direct result of the conversion to new unpre-reform. For example, the larger copies were: 197 persons with an income of less than NOK 300000 before tax who had lost up to NOK 24000 a year as a result of the conversion of the unfinished reform. This is contrary to what was meant by the misreform, which was a very clear lead from the Stortinget, and which was also the starting point for SV to propose a permanent compensation scheme for disabled people who have lost income as a result of the reform. But this was a commitment to reform, and I therefore ask the National Audit Office to include this in its further work on the next year's audits. It is unfortunately a repetition that the police do not have enough control over the weapons. The Committee takes this very seriously. And then there's a sign of recovery in the defense account, but there's still a lot of weaknesses that make the committee worry about developments there.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e1365	In the 2017 revision, the National Audit Board has been concerned with information security in state-owned enterprises. Significant deficiencies have been identified in the management of information security and the security of ICT systems. More and more advanced methods are being used by actors who want to attack state-owned businesses. It is often difficult, according to the Riksrevision, to see the relationship between identified risks and risk mitigation measures. Although none of the audits carried out in Document 1 is directed towards the Ministry of Health and Welfare, I would nevertheless like to comment on some aspects related to what has been done in my area of responsibility. I would also ask, and have asked, the Stortinget for an opportunity to explain about the ICT work in Health South-East, in line with the Riksrevision's recommendation. I have also – in the business meeting in January – demanded that health regions learn from each other in this area. Through its Corporate Audit for 2017, the National Audit Board has carried out audits in the specialist health service with a focus on information security. The National Audit Office's control refers specifically to two matters in Health South-East. One is working on Digital Renewal, the previous integrated ICT work plan. The second is the regional introduction of a new x-ray system. The National Audit Office states that the targets set for digital renewal have not been met. That is so far correct, but Health South-East has left the strategy behind this programme. They have put in place several measures: reorganisation, which should provide clearer roles and responsibilities, better involvement of health businesses and better anchoring of decisions in both health enterprises and the management of the regional health business. The Health South-East Board is reporting on the implementation of individual projects in the ICT portfolio and is better able to follow up adopted projects. The focus is on non-conformities reporting and closing measures. The national audit considers that the work on joint radiology solutions could give rise to concerns about patient safety. However, health South-East points out that it is important to distinguish between adverse events and patient safety breaches. They have stressed, among other things: additional manual measures to ensure the quality of patient care. The case has led to significant changes in the way acquisitions are carried out. A digitised healthcare service imposes other requirements on the security of information and the processing of health data. The Patient Journal Act of 2014 was important, and with the EU Data Protection Regulation, we are taking a step forward. Health regions have done a great deal to implement the Data Protection Regulation. The management system has been reviewed and updated and healthcare providers have established data protection representatives. However, the work on better quality in patient treatment, privacy and information security is continuous processes that can never be completed. The Court of Auditors has, among other things: look at how the Ministry and the Health Directorate manage the various grant schemes. In 2017, the Health Directorate managed 160 grant schemes with a total budget of 14 billion. kr. The audit for 2017 includes six grant schemes with a framework of approximately 750 million. DKK and 18 beneficiaries with a total payment of 48 million. kr in 2016. The National Audit Board has selected the schemes based on a risk and materiality assessment. The audit showed that the Health Directorate has not documented the use of grant funds in line with the Storting’s decisions and assumptions. Furthermore, the Riksrevision found that the reporting of the grant schemes examined was limited in terms of the results achieved. However, the audit shows that the Ministry of Health and Welfare has established legislation for each of the grant schemes and provided guidance signals for the grant management. The National Audit Office considers it critical that the Health Directorate has not sufficiently documented the achievement of the objective of the individual grant and that they have not obtained financial statements from most of the beneficiaries surveyed. I agree with this criticism. In the establishment management dialogue with the Directorate-General for Health, including in the letter of allocation for 2019, the Ministry has clarified that it needs to improve its control procedures based on a risk and materiality assessment. I also share the Riksrevision’s assessment that reporting to Stortinget should be more about the results achieved and that the Ministry could better follow up on the Directorate’s implementation of the grant management in line with the legislation. The Ministry and the Directorate will review the grant schemes and decide on the arrangements for improving the reporting to the Storting through the review of the budget proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e1393	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e1398	I want to start by recognising the Council's feedback on the concrete findings and allegations contained in the Riksrevision report. It is then well an example of what I said in my introduction – that sometimes things that are not good are pointed out, and when they are followed up, it shows that the work of the National Audit Office is useful. My question to the Council of State will rather be based on the fact that I and Vice-Chairman Svein Harberg of the Control and Constitution Committee were with colleagues from all over the Nordic region in Finland on Thursday and Friday. One of the issues we were dealing with there was just personal data and ICT security. The Council of State said a little about the situation in Health South-East, etc., and I could imagine asking if the Council of State could imagine that outsourcing itself, in areas where it is possible to obtain sensitive information, could be a problem in an area like the health sector, where one should take care of personal data, and whether he could say something about information security related to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e1405	Yes, this is a question that concerns us very much, because it is quite obvious that outsourcing this type of service implies that one has to have an incredibly high awareness of the handling of person-sensitive information. So we've just been concerned about whether the answer to that is not to outsource this type of solution, which means that one can also have access to person-sensitive information. Firstly, the national safety authority’s response to this is: No, it is possible to address these questions even in an outsourcing situation. Secondly, in the new healthcare solutions, personal information is digitally available in almost all different medical-technical solutions, so it is an unimaginable strategy not to have it outsourced in response to these challenges. We just have to solve it within good regimes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e1413	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e1418	The State of Employment and Welfare manages large amounts of personal data and other sensitive information. It is essential that citizens have confidence that the labour and welfare services are capable of ensuring that the information they collect in their proceedings is not misused or diverted. I am pleased that the National Audit Office’s investigations show that the Labour and Welfare Act has established several strong security measures against external data attacks. However, the National Audit Office’s study shows that its ICT systems have several weaknesses that can be exploited by internal or external actors if they have come to the inside of the external security measures. These are matters that I see very seriously, and follow up in the dialogue with the labour and welfare director. I am confident that the department has already closed several of the weaknesses the Riksrevision has revealed in its audit. This applies, inter alia, to: risks associated with access rights and software to mobile solutions, the division of networks into network zones, documentation of firewall rules and access to safety-critical information for internal users. Some of the weaknesses pointed out by the Riksrevision will take time to sort out as it requires the fundamental modernisation of very old systems. These systems do not meet the requirements we need today for information security. As the National Audit Office points out, the labour and welfare community has a large and complex ICT environment with over 300 different computer systems. The complexity and age of its ICT systems make full compliance with recognised standards difficult. I am therefore satisfied that Project 2 of the ICT modernisation programme is now delivered on schedule, and that Project 3 has just started. The fact that we are now implementing this programme in a safe and timely manner has been a clear priority of this government, not least because this is absolutely necessary to comply with the information security requirements and the processing requirements of personal data. When developing modernised solutions, it is imperative that systems respect information security requirements in legislation and recognised standards. The National Audit Office recommends that the Ministry follow up the preparation of concrete risk assessments covering vulnerabilities and threats related to personal data in the various systems of the Agency. I agree that there is a need to follow up on this in a more structured way, not least because this is an area that is in rapid development and where new challenges and risks are emerging. This is necessary if, in the future, we are to be at the forefront of the threat picture and give priority to the right measures to ensure privacy and information security. I will therefore ensure that the Ministry strengthens its follow-up to this in the governance dialogue with our businesses. Some words about the misreform, which several have addressed in their articles. First of all, I would like to say that the government shares the big business's ambition that as few as possible will be dissatisfied initially, and that when someone does, they will have the opportunity to use their residual working capacity. The starting point for the bad reform was that the bad guys shouldn't lose their jobs, as they did in the old system. As far as the review of the Riksrevision is concerned, it is important to remember some elements. One is that, in advance of the default time, extensive documentation requirements have been passed that they actually meet the conditions for failure. The second is that the Riksrevision investigates a very demanding period in the Norwegian labour market. It was a period when the unemployment rate increased significantly and the frail reform had entered into force very shortly before the revision was carried out. It's important that we work systematically and thoroughly in the future, perhaps primarily in advance of someone losing weight, so that they don't get into that situation. But we also note the National Audit Office's feedback and will follow up on the comments that have come.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e1433	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e1438	Let me first say that in terms of ICT and security related to personal data, I choose to take what the Council of State says, for information, because history shows that it is too early to take note of it, i.e. believe that everything is all right. But I'm at least recording that the Council of State has attention to this and acknowledges the Riksrevision's criticism of that point. So until what the Council of State was in at the end, and it's about the under-reform. I see that criticism as quite acute, especially when the Riksrevision writes: ‘In its governance and follow-up to the agency, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has had little attention to the achievement of the objectives of the disability reform’. Then I have to ask the Council of State the following questions: Will the Council of State ensure that the expectations and requirements for reporting results are strengthened in the years to come, given the findings of the Riksrevision now pointed out?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e1450	The short answer to that is yes, of course we should follow up the Riksrevision's comments. We will also follow up on the stages of the etat management dialogue in this respect. As I said in my main post, of course, I share the Storting's ambition that more disabled people will be able to take advantage of their residual working capacity. The reform has not worked very long, and there are many other measures that we also need to keep pressure on now, first of all to avoid people becoming disabled, and to ensure an inclusive working life and ensure that those who remain outside are included. But, of course, we need to follow up on the comments of the National Audit Office and have a close dialogue with the agencies on the follow-up to them too.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e1455	The Council of State stated that it is important to put in place measures before people end up in disability. Of course, I fully agree with that. There is some reason why we disagree with one another. the change in redundancy payments made. However, the Riksrevision also points out that those who are disqualified, to a small extent – if to some extent, i.e. almost to some extent – are followed up by Nav in retrospect in order to achieve what the Council of State said now, and which was the basis for my first question, that even those who have a disability should be allowed to use parts of their working capacity or should be able to use their working capacity on a full-time basis, with certainty that it is possible to return to social security if a difficult health situation should arise again. So with regard to the follow-up of those who have fallen into social security, and to analyse and help them get into the labour market, in whole or in part, does the Council have a comment on how to follow it more closely? When it comes to the effort before people get into bad luck, we agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e1460	There are many measures and initiatives that need to be taken to reduce the scope of exclusion and exclusion from the labour market. We have made major changes to the qualification programme from 1 January. We have made changes to the work clearance system, as the representative Dag Terje Andersen pointed out, where some of the purpose was both earlier and closer follow-up. Now there are also statutory stoppoints for Nav in order to follow up on those who come in on redundancy payments, and it is easier to try out a job while you are on the scheme without losing it. In addition, there are, of course, changes for social assistance. So we have to do a lot of things. With regard to the follow-up of those who have become disabled, there is also an important balance here. All those who turn to Nav will get help, whether you're lazy or not. It's important to remember. But there is also a balance between outreach activities to people who have been documented and who may have had long processes to confirm their disability, and to be able to help those who have residual working capacity. I am concerned that those who have a residual working capacity and want to return to work will, of course, be assisted in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e1467	My main point was not outreach, but that those who are looking for Nav in order to make use of their residual working capacity must get the help they can get. I understand from the National Audit Office's report that it is very different from the Nav Office to the Nav Office to what extent they get that help. If I can interpret the Council of State so that those who ask for help to get back to work in whole or in part should have the same right to get it if they are dissatisfied, as if they were not dissatisfied, I will be satisfied with a yes-answer to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e1474	I can confirm that everyone who visits Nav, regardless of whether you go on performance or not, has the right to be able to get assistance adapted to the wishes you have.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e1479	In my post, I was committed to the premises that led to the unpremeditated reform – that people after the reform would not get less performance, but almost the same performance. So it turns out that that has not been the case. 14 260 people – these are figures from 2015 – had lost more than NOK 6000 per year, and 197 people had lost over NOK 24 000 per year. This is contrary to the premises of the unpremeditated reform – that one should not lose much, and that it should be nearly the same performance. Is this something that the government has been following up on?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e1484	There were a number of factors that were the basis for the miscarriage reform. One was that it should also adapt to the pension reform, and that they should not lose weight in starting to work. In the past, the system was designed in such a way that even very small income could result in the loss of both the entire disability and, in fact, the right to disability. The worst example I heard was that you could have a newspaper subscription paid by the employer, and that it could be enough to actually lose the entire income. Therefore, changes were made that meant that you just lost what you earned over the amount of free money, and you didn't get any changes in the grade itself. Studies show that the large, large majority get either as much or more than they had before. 60 pst. gets more into dissatisfaction than they had with the old reform. There may be different reasons why someone gets smaller. It may also be that tax rules differ slightly, among other things. because the disability benefit is now taxed as income and not as social security. But we are following developments in disability care in general, also to see if there are other unintended consequences that we need to inform the Storting about and correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e1492	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e1497	I thought I would make a few comments on what was mentioned in the Ministry of Finance's area. Let me start with information security in DFØ. I look seriously at the comments from the National Audit Board related to data security in the DFOE and will follow up the recommendations. DFØ is a payroll service provider for most state enterprises. It is essential that we have confidence in such an actor. I do not know that there have been situations where sensitive personal data has been misused. I can also inform you that the DFØ is already in the process of following up on the comments of the Riksrevision. Several security measures have already been implemented and a plan for the implementation of the necessary measures has been established. The Ministry of Finance follows this work closely. So some comments on the follow-up of the tax collection function. There I notice that the Riksrevision believes that the Ministry of Finance and the tax haven's use of instruments in the follow-up to the tax collection mainly works, and I am generally satisfied with the professional support and governance that the tax bill provides to the tax collectors. I still believe that today's organisation of the tax collection where the municipalities have the administrative responsibility and the state the professional is challenging. There are several municipalities that spend too little resources on this, and some do not comply with tax laws. The national audit notes on the ability to instruct municipalities about resource use are interesting and something we will consider in more detail. In contrast to the Riksrevision, we have not yet interpreted the relevant rules so that the tax rate can directly instruct the municipalities about this, but I will follow up the Riksrevision's recommendation to clarify the use of the right of instruction.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e1508	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e1513	I am very pleased with what the Minister of Finance was clearly at now. There were a few comments from the National Audit Office related to the Ministry of Finance, and I think the Ministry of Finance and the government have responded well. There is a unanimous committee behind all the comments we have made on the matter, but I want to start out a little bit about the challenge it is with the tax collection function being municipal. It has been tried by the government to solve by proposing a governmentization of it, but it has been voted down by Stortinget. If the government's proposals had been followed, this issue would not have been there. I'm glad you're now looking at the possibility of instructing, and it's probably a challenge whether you have sanctions or not. You have to get back to that. In any case, it is important that the Ministry of Finance and the Government follow up on the observations that are so clear regarding the follow-up of the tax collection function. Then we will see if we can propose, at a later stage, that this should be a state-wide responsibility, which at least I believe is the case. I think that would have been a good solution. It is such that the Committee is unanimous in its comments in this position. I think that's good. I have the responsibility of the rapporteur for several areas, but one area that is not mentioned is the responsibility of the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries. I would like to refer, for the record, to the comment of a unanimous committee, where we point out that the National Audit Office has no observations on the annual accounts or administrative legislation for any of the establishments under the responsibility of the Ministry of Food and Fisheries. Nor is there any other issue that the Riksrevision addresses. This is a matter of great satisfaction to the Committee. The comments we have, relating to the Ministry of Justice, have been made by my colleague in a good way, and in addition, the Committee has these comments on the Ministry of Finance, which the Council of State will follow up in an excellent way. So this is a setting to which it's easy to join.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e1524	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e1540	At the request of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no opportunity for a replacement of lines, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. No one has asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e1564	Good access to research is important to meet a wide range of societal challenges, including: in order to ensure a good public debate, to take policy decisions, to develop new business activities and to enable professionals and others with a professional interest to keep themselves up to date. Greater transparency in research can also contribute to smarter service development in the public sector. Professionals such as teachers, nurses and others need access to research to improve practice. Better availability of research can also help to strengthen confidence in researchers and research results, which are more important than in a very long time, at a time when false claims are easily spread and grounded. Open access, or open access, as many call it, could help to make research more efficient and, at the same time, stimulate the knowledge economy by providing more groups with access to high-quality scientific literature. Simplification of access to research data makes it easier for researchers to build on each other’s findings and discuss and test each other’s results. It also allows other actors to see new uses of research. Therefore, access to research results is a major asset both for individuals and for society. Today’s technology also enables both faster and wider sharing of results, which is an important tradition in research. All of this is a broad consensus, and the Storting has repeatedly stated that research paid by the community should be open and accessible to the community free of charge. But it's not like that today. Most researchers today publish their articles in scientific journals that require subscriptions for access. Some of these are very expensive, and the magazines are many, so for those institutions that are going to stick with the most important journals, this represents a huge cost. Norway, alone, spends 350 million. kr for magazine subscription per year. For all of us who are not connected to these institutions, these articles are practically unavailable. For this reason, it is a political requirement in many countries that publicly funded research must be made available to all. The new long-term plan for research and higher education, presented by the Council of State in the autumn, also explicitly states: ‘The Government’s objective is that all Norwegian scientific articles funded by public funds should be open to the public by 2024.’ It's an important and ambitious goal. The question is how do we manage to get there? Plan S is a pan-European initiative to advance this transition towards open access to publicly funded scientific articles. The Norwegian Research Councils have joined forces with the Research Councils of 13 other countries as well as the European Commission and the European Research Council, the Wellcome Trust and Gates Foundation on an initiative to require full, open access to all articles from research funded by these institutions, from 1 January 2020, i.e. in a short year’s time. So this is called Plan S. This European initiative has gone ahead in a process that has actually remained silent for quite many years, although, as I said earlier, it has been a broad desire in very many countries to achieve this. We see that the transition from a closed system to a more open system can be quite demanding and quite difficult. So although everyone agrees that openness and accessibility are a good thing, there are quite a few who have been critical of Plan S, not least to the way it's intended to be implemented. There are some researchers who are concerned that large, important countries such as Germany, the United States and China are not involved in Plan S, and they fear that it may make it difficult to publish research and make international research collaboration with researchers in these countries difficult. There are others who fear more state governance and less academic freedom for researchers. Among other things, Jusprofessor Olav Torvund has written the following: ‘It is essential in academic freedom that you can publish your research results in the ways that you find most appropriate. We choose the journals that best reach the target audience. Now we are only to be allowed to publish in selected state-authorised journals.» This is an important objection that several researchers have raised. Many have also pointed out that today's scientific journal system is a central part of the research quality assurance system and that the incentives for publishers will be changed with Plan S. This is also the goal in many ways, but it is a risk that we might, for example, be able to do so. Turns the focus from quality to quantity, that you just want to publish as much as possible. In addition, it may in fact make it more difficult for the public to find out if there is a strong growing amount of scientific articles on which there is unclear quality. At the latest today, there was also a chronicle in the Evening Post that had been signed by five professors at the Institute of Economics at the University of Oslo, who were critical of the plan's ability to achieve its objectives. They believe that the documents available are vague and that the plan appears more like a sketch than a plan. They fear that the large, well-known magazines will retain their market power despite the plans and that they will be able to demand high authorial payments, which means that the cost of Norway, for example, will not go down. So, in common with those who have made critical comments, they believe that Plan S is poorly investigated, that it is being implemented too quickly, and that there is too little knowledge of the consequences. Let me just underline, before I come to my question: I mean that open access to research is very important, and that Plan S is a good initiative that has speeded up a process that has been silent for too long. There is a lot of evidence that Europe has the weight to force these magazines to change its business model, and that it is a good thing that Norway is on Plan S. I believe, however, that we must listen to the objections that have arisen and take these concerns very seriously. What do the Council of State think about the challenges that are being highlighted, and how can we ensure that the interests of non-discrimination, independence and quality are taken into account?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e1600	It is a problem that research results are widely published in journals closed behind payment walls in the form of expensive subscription agreements. A handful of international publishers operate with profit margins up to 40 p.m., and much of this profit comes from taxpayers. Each year we use approx. 350 million. kr for magazine subscriptions only in Norway. Plan S is a pan-European initiative to ensure open access to publicly funded research. It has been endorsed by the Norwegian Research Council because it is in line with national objectives and guidelines for open access to scientific articles and because it supports Norway in the negotiations with the major publishers. The national target was addressed by an expert group that provided draft open access guidelines in 2016. The proposal was sent to the hearing, and not only universities and colleges, but also research institutes and a number of other activities strongly supported the principle of open access to research results. It was also widely agreed that the key to success lies in cooperation at international level and that action was needed at national level. In view of this, the Government presented national objectives and guidelines for open access to scientific articles in August 2017. Here is where the following is stated: ‘The Government’s objective is that by 2024 all Norwegian scientific articles funded by public funds shall be open to the public.’ And on the other hand, ‘To achieve the objective of full open access, researchers, professional communities, research institutions, research funding institutions and authorities must contribute. In particular, professional environments are expected to contribute by turning important journals in their professional fields from being closed to opening.» [[...]] Furthermore, it was established that: «Institutions and consortia negotiating agreements with publishers shall ensure that the agreements promote open access without increased total costs and that the terms of the agreements are transparent.» Unit, Directorate for ICT and joint services in higher education and research, negotiates subscription agreements with publishers. In July 2018, the University and Higher Education Council sent a letter to the Unit entitled ‘Statement of support for a common strategy for negotiations on open access to scientific articles’. They supported the implementation of the negotiations requiring that Norwegian articles be open at the time of publication and that open publication should not increase the total cost. I quote: ‘UHR believes that the continuation of today’s subscription system is not sustainable for Norwegian UH institutions [[...]] The situation in Norway in the summer of 2018 was thus as follows: There was broad support for the objective of open access. There was a broad consensus that international cooperation is required. There was support from universities and colleges for a demand for immediate open access to Norwegian researchers’ articles in negotiations with publishers. In September, Plan S was launched. Funders that have merged on the plan require immediate open access to all articles from research funded by 2020. They have provided a guide on publication accepted as open: First of all, it's in journals with immediate open access. For the second time, it is published in subscription journals, while at the same time depositing and making available the articles in an open and searchable archive, without a lockout period and with an open licence. Third, it is in subscription journals that are part of a transitional agreement, i.e.: closed journals which have an obligating plan to be opened by the end of 2024 at the latest. The supervisor was sent to the consultation, and Coalition S has obtained input from interested parties, both nationally and internationally. The supervisor shall be completed during the spring in the light of the recordings made. Some researchers are concerned that financers in countries such as Germany, China and the United States have not yet signed Plan S — also mentioned interpellant — but China, the world’s largest producer of scientific articles, has clearly expressed support for Plan S. India is the world’s third largest producer of scientific articles, and the Indian government’s scientific adviser has stated that it is highly likely that India will support Plan S. New Chief Scientific Advisor is in place in the United States, and Coalition S is in conversation with him and others. In other words, it is likely that more financiers will sign Plan S, but it is important to be aware that these countries are already working hard for the same objectives in their publishing negotiations that are in Plan S. Their goal is the same type of agreement that is accepted in Plan S, i.e. open publication of the country’s research in journals which are not yet open but are part of a transitional agreement to be opened over the next 3 to 5 years. This type of agreement is called public and read agreements. They have the advantage that researchers will not notice differences from today's system, because they do not have to think about paying article publishing fees. The contract maintains the read access to the subscription journals at the same time as the publication costs are covered by the contract. Countries such as the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, Sweden, Finland and Austria have had one or more such agreements for several years. Unit negotiates such agreements with Norwegian institutions and expects to sign an agreement with one of the major publishers in a short time. Through these kinds of agreements, we pay to ensure the open publication of Norwegian articles, while maintaining the read access to articles that are not yet open in the journals. This shows that the open access to research policy is bearing fruit. It is important to find that there is a link between national guidelines, publishing negotiations and Plan S. It is the overall pressure, which now comes from several sides and many countries, that helps international groups to reconsider their business models. Some researchers fear that Plan S is about more state governance and less academic freedom, and have expressed concern that the requirement to publish openly is contrary to the Law on Higher Education. The new requirement is that the form of publication must be open, but there is no indication of the specific channel in which researchers should publish. I believe this is compatible with the principle of academic freedom. Universities and higher education institutions shall ensure transparency of research results and researchers shall have the right to publish their results and shall ensure that such publication takes place. This is a prerequisite for public access to information and also a prerequisite for science to be anchored in the public domain. Other researchers are afraid that Plan S will weaken the quality assurance of research, but in Norway we have built up a national channel register with an overview of serious journals and publishers. In addition, we work with other countries to strengthen international quality assurance mechanisms. This is also an important part of the Plan S initiative. This type of quality assurance is not a desire for political governance of research and its content, but is about the organisation of quality assurance on academic premises. Then we have to make sure that good editorial processes and peer schemes are in place. Such a mechanism can be found, among other things. in the international database. It provides reliable information that the open journals registered there are doing just that. It's important with high quality journals, and I think it's possible to maintain quality while at the same time getting a transition to open access. For example, the journals of linguists and physicists show that such a transition is fully possible, and it should be an inspiration for other disciplines. No serious publishers of journals will have four quality requirements only to be published as much as possible. Over time, only good peer review procedures will attract scripts from ambitious and quality-knowing authors.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e1675	I want to start by thanking the Council of State for the answer. It was a thorough answer that shows that the Council of State has taken the issue seriously, and that addressed many of the concerns I raised in my article. I'm glad. The Government's response also shows that we probably don't have answers to all the concerns, that we really don't know exactly what the consequences of the plan are, and that there are still some assumptions that aren't completely clear. It is good to hear that more and more countries are joining. I think that is very positive and important for Norwegian researchers. I want to use this opportunity to ask a few follow-up questions to the Council of State, which she can come back to later in the debate. There are many researchers who have been involved in the debate, and many believe that they have not been given the opportunity to be heard in a proper and good way, and that this is a matter that has such a major impact on Norwegian research that it should have been consulted. My question to the Council of State is how to ensure that the recordings of the researchers themselves are well taken care of in the further work. The second question I've been asked by researchers who are concerned about is what will happen if these publishers don't change the practice as a result of Plan S. What will the Ministry of Knowledge do to researchers who still want to publish what they think is the best channels, which are not necessarily open? How is this to be implemented? It would have been nice if the council had been able to get into it in their answer. I look forward to having a further debate on this. This is a very important topic that can have quite a major impact on Norwegian research.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e1684	As the interpellant himself says, there are a lot of things that are not clarified at this point in time. There is still a great job ahead of us in getting full open access and having these magazines turned. But in this process, it is important that we raise our eyes and focus our eyes on what is our goal, and what has been our goal for a long time, namely to ensure that our business life, our teachers and our doctors can have access and get the latest and up-to-date research in their field made available separately, because there is research paid by public funds, by our taxes. To illustrate what we're talking about here, I can draw out RELX's Elsevier -- I'm a little unsure about how to express it, but I think it's 'elsvir'. Elsevier has had a profit of 10 billion. It is money that is largely from public funds and taxpayers. That's approximately equal to that. an annual budget for the Research Council. Only Norway spends 350 million. kr for journal subscriptions per year. Plan S is not a plan to save money. That's not the purpose of Plan S. Plan S is about making this research available to those who need it, not only for research, but also in their daily work. A process is currently in progress. The Research Council has been around several of our institutions, talking to the researchers and getting recorded. As I know, the deadline was national in the month of the month of January to February. Internationally, they do the same operation and collect recordings from the supervisor they've sent out. I have a great deal of understanding and respect for the researchers who are concerned about their everyday life and their future, and about how it will be with open access, but I'm concerned that we won't now talk about what happens if we don't succeed. Now we're there that we have to work hard just to succeed. We are in a negotiating position. We are in a negotiating position with the major publishers, nation by nation, but also together we are behind an initiative on Plan S. Now it's about making the change we've been talking about for so many years, but it didn't work out that far. I understand that it's only now that the individual knows it on the body, but this is something we've been talking about for years. This is something we have agreed on for many years. Of course, we're going to have a good dialogue, but we have to keep the pressure up.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e1697	Thank you to Guri Melby, who is raising a very interesting issue. It's interesting to hear the Council of State from the Left and the representative from the Left in a professional change of words, I just have to say. The interpellation on initiatives to require full open access to all articles from research funded by institutions under the Research Council – Plan S, makes it a bit rusty in the sector, I experience. It's very, very interesting. We agree with the intention, and we want to achieve openness and access – to cultivate professional quality and not least to put research into life, into everyday life among people, and to make it have practical consequences, and that we learn new things and develop. I also think it's interesting how this challenges some of the power constellations we have in higher education, both the established institutions and the new institutions, what is related to funds, and what is e.g. is associated with positions in the Research Council. Here's a lot of issues that this is affluent. I think we're good at that. At the same time, there are some questions that are still worth traveling. It is quite simply whether we are able to straighten ourselves out to deal with this already until 1 January 2020, and what may happen from 2020 until the goal of full transparency, which has already been set at 2024 – exactly what will happen in that period – whether we are going to spend the time making this happen, or what might be done on the part of the department. I think it's important to have open access to connect research, education and innovation in a broad sense to society in general. We need interdisciplinaryism that makes us have to get out of the disciplinary boxes we have today, where there is often too much silo even at some institutions. I think, for example, transparency around the publication can contribute to increased interdisciplinaryity. I also think that this can help give us a level of competence, which we work for across parties and across communities, because it just needs to be done. Conversion is progressing faster and faster. This is precisely also about getting good implementation, and about how it is financed, and that it is properly funded. Full open publication is important, but it is also necessary to ensure publication in professional journals, and I believe it is important that the established is involved in the development of both funding and a new system of publication. Governments are bringing forward a publishing and reading system. That sounds like a good model to me. Other models have also been identified, most recently when we consulted on the long-term plan in the Education and Research Committee. The Institute for Peace Research is critical of Plan S and believes that it itself is not necessarily the solution and that it can have some negative consequences. I think we have to take this seriously. They point out that there should have been an impact assessment, and believe that the goal could also have been achieved in other ways. I don't dare to answer that, but it may well be the Council of State. They ask questions about whether this will in practice lead to a ban on publication in some recognised journals that are not necessarily open. They point to “diamant open access” where you do not pay to publish or to read. It also points to "gold open access" as better, so here it's important to bring the wise heads together and find the best solution. There has also been a point that the magazines are a meeting place between practice and research, and I think that arena we have to be careful to grow further, no matter what kind of new order we get. There are several professional environments that are critical that this is too fast. I think we have to take that seriously, because there is a very big difference between whether the trade unions are equipped to deal with this. Logisticsians and physicists as good examples, I am also pleased, and best practice, I think, is still under development. I think it makes sense to take the time to help carry out good Norwegian research and good Norwegian research environments. Here are many fresh institutions, universities and adult research environments. They must be on the trip.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e1716	The Labour Party is probably not as sure as the interpellant from the Council of State Nybø's own party that the Council of State will ensure anything in this matter. In fact, interpellations are part of the Swedish government's control of the government, but the government has dropped the ceiling of Plan S, an initiative for open access to all publicly funded research by 2020, and left the entire board to the research bureaucrats. In an interview in Khrono in November, the Council of State Nybø summarized its position on Plan S that it is ‘in it to win it’. At the same time, the Council of State clearly informed that she had no intention of doing anything but keeping the political pressure up, because it is the Research Council that owns Plan S, and it is the Research Council's working group that is to find the way to the goal. Governments have decided that Plan S will be implemented, cost what it costs, and have left implementation to Norwegian Research Councils. She has declared that she has no plan B, and unfortunately she shows a very alarming little understanding of completely legitimate objections from the sector. We in the Workers' Party are also followers of open publication. We regard it as essential to open access to research results and believe that all publicly funded research should be open to all. It is not difficult to see that today's publication model is not sustainable. It is also an important argument that open research reaches out to more people, making research more democratic and more confident in the population. The Labour Party initially agrees that Norway should join Plan S. However, when Plan S nevertheless arouses considerable reactions and debate at universities, colleges and the research institute, there is considerable uncertainty about how Norwegian participation is to be implemented and what consequences will be attached to the plan. There is every reason to take this uncertainty seriously. That is exactly why it was wise for the Research Council, after registering the unrest, to turn to the question of putting the Plan S implementation plan into consultation. Responsible management is, of course, not to be so preoccupied with a goal that you reduce or eliminate real obstacles or disadvantages. Responsible management is getting the problems on the table and solving them. Norway has good prospects for effective open access work, but we in the Workers' Party nevertheless consider Plan S to be so comprehensive and complex that the consequences should be investigated. This has been addressed by a great many in the sector, among others. in the form of a signature campaign, without any decision of the Council of State. The Labour Party believes that to the extent that the transition to open access to research affects research quality, the development of future research environments and the dissemination of research, barriers and impacts should be identified. The same basic questions are addressed by the interpellant today, and it is a pity that the Council of State does not have more reassuring answers to this. The working party has previously pointed to key elements of the implementation, which hover in the blue. For example, it is not clear what the cost of the conversion will be, how extra costs will be allocated, what the transition will mean for the management of copyright for the position of the Norwegian professional language, etc. An investigation could answer this and the questions the interpellant raises about how to ensure quality in the open channels. Adequate quality systems should be a prerequisite for Plan S. An investigation could also respond to the implications of the leadership of the channels of publication for academic freedom, for young researchers and for international cooperation. The working party is impatient, but we believe Plan S is unnecessarily little worked through. It would have been useful and possible to investigate the risks and consequences of the extension of the consultation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e1731	Thanks to the representatives Knutsdatter Strand and Fanghol for their contributions. Both of them were at many of the same moments I was in my post, about what are the critical objections to Plan S. It may not be surprising that the undersigned and the representative of the Workers' Party have a slightly different view of whether we feel safe about the government's handling of the matter, or not, but that is perhaps something we just have to expect. I believe this is a matter where it is worth having a real discussion about who is going to handle these objections further, whether the Council of State is going to intervene in the matter, or whether it is right that the Research Council is handling it. I think it is right that it is those who direct the research, who also have the initiative in this matter. This thing, like many other things, can always be said to be better solved. I think we should do more about the consequences. The question is, if you've had a more thorough investigation and know something about the consequences, if you'd come to another concession. It is not quite clear whether the Workers' Party will allow them to assess it in such a way that Norway should not be included in Plan S. It would be interesting to know more about it. My view is that the objections that have come so far are not strong enough to say that is a reason why Norway should not be included in Plan S, but that there are, of course, objections that we have to look at when we are going to ensure that this is done properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e1742	The Workers' Party had an article with a lot of criticism of Plan S, and I was almost worried about whether the Workers' Party actually thought that large companies like Elsevier or others might have profits of 10 billion. kr, paid by taxpayers, and that it is good that we have a dysfunctional monopoly market when it comes to publishing publicly funded research – research that our business needs in their transition, that our doctors need to provide the best treatment for their patients, or that our teachers need to provide good and up-to-date education. Fortunately, the representative could state that they are for Plan S. Then we're a little bit in the same situation as many others. There are many out there who are skeptical about Plan S, but who are in favour of the principle of open research. The problem is that they have no other way. They cannot show an alternative way to open access other than the path just outlined by Plan S. The situation in the summer of 2018 was that we had investigated, we had heard, we had set national targets and open access guidelines. The UHR had sent letters of support to Unit requiring immediate open access to Norwegian research articles in the negotiations with the publishers. We have years of experience with what we can call the zero option, today's situation: not doing anything. There is a galloping annual price increase for subscription contracts of 3,5-4 pst. We have a common objective of open access. I'm surprised there were so many people coming so quickly, because we've been talking about it for years. There has been a common intention between politicians, researchers and institutions that we want open access. But now, when something happens and you notice it on the body, it seems like there's been a bit of a rush on too many, that they think it's going too fast, but this is something we've been doing for a long time. I have great respect and great understanding that some of the researchers are concerned, especially those who publish in heavy journals like Nature and Science, those who don't know what to do now when the most prestigious channels are not open. Then there are several alternatives. My goal is for them to be opened and for them to be turned around. We also have examples of researchers who have joined forces and started their own channels of publication, which have now become the most prestigious. This is not a money saving measure, but it is about spending the money on professional assessments and on good quality assurance procedures, so that we get research that is accessible and open to everyone. Thank you very much to everyone who has participated in a very important interpellation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e1757	The debate on substance is closed. So 7 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e1775	Research and higher education are central to the development of a sustainable society. Universities and higher education institutions, with their wide range of disciplines and education, have particular prerequisites for contributing to tackling the major societal challenges. Universities and colleges have a special responsibility to participate in the public debate, to set the agenda for society and to contribute to the societal debate being marked by knowledge, high levels of truth and backwardness. By investing in knowledge, we will equip ourselves for the future, create new and green profitable jobs and a better and more efficient public sector. Research is developing new knowledge, and we're finding solutions to questions we might not have known we had. Students have an important role to play in developing society further, and they need knowledge to make the right choices. In order for students to achieve the best possible learning outcomes and personal development, they must meet relevant training courses that prepare them well for active participation in a democratic and diverse society and for a future career. The transition from a resource-based economy to a more knowledge-based economy, increasing globalisation and technological development requires labour with both high skills and ability to master change and uncertainty. Universities and higher education institutions therefore need to provide up-to-date and relevant high-quality education, which motivates learning and implementation, for their main contribution to value creation will be to train competent candidates for employment. The number of applicants for Norwegian higher education continues to increase. In the autumn of 2018, there were over 275 000 registered students, an increase of 20 pst. since 2011. However, although the number of places of study is also increasing, entry is becoming increasingly difficult. In 2018, there were on average two qualified first-choice applicants for each study site. The state report for 2018 shows that the percentage of bachelor students who complete in normal time has increased from 41 p.m. for those who started studying in 2012, at 48 p.m. for those who started in 2014. It is positive, although there are still too few implementing in the normal time. For comparison, it's 50 pst. by the master students who complete in normal time. The number from the SSB shows that 66 pst. of the students complete a degree within eight years, i.e. one of three does not. It is low compared to other OECD countries, with an average of 80 pst. Completes a degree. This is despite a massive government investment to make student everyday life easier, with measures such as eleven months of student support, record new student housing, health centre for young people, student doctors, fairer health services, psychologists in each municipality and increased free card and BSU borders. Norway is among the countries with the highest expenditure per student in primary education and is more than 50pst. over the OECD average, while we use approx. 10 pst. more than the average of higher education. The aim of the government is that everyone who wants it should have access to high-quality education. But is there really a lack of quality that makes Norway stop getting more for the resources we spend on education? In January 2017, the government presented the ‘Culture for Quality in Higher Education’. The Quality Communication launched a number of measures to stimulate universities and universities and their professional environment to strengthen the quality culture and to carry out continuous quality work. It is a clear red thread in the quality notification that the institutions themselves have the primary responsibility for the quality of the training they provide. Quality of education is primarily culturally dependent, and quality improvement must take place locally, under the direction of the institutions themselves. However, it is also stressed that autonomy, professional and academic freedom are prerequisites for institutions to provide good education. There has been a greater focus on the quality of Norwegian higher education, and it is consistently good. The 2017 study barometer shows that students at Norwegian higher education institutions are well pleased with the quality of the study programme they are going on, although they want more follow-up and feedback. 84 pst. believes that their study programme is professionally relevant. Students are evenly satisfied with practice, but point out that preparation for practice and communication between practice and higher education or university should be improved. But there is room for improvement, and I am glad that it is a goal for the government to improve quality. In the long-term plan, quality in higher education is a separate initiative, with a stepping-up plan to be followed in the 2019 budget, and a major communication on work relevance and studies is under preparation. International cooperation is also considered to be of quality promotion. The government has a longer-term objective that at least half of the students should have been studying abroad during the study period, and proposals to make foreign residence mandatory have been promoted, inter alia. by the Council of State. Norway has traditionally a high number of students who take a great deal abroad, and the number of exchange students taking part in a degree abroad remains relatively stable. The students who have been in exchange report consistently that the exchange provided professional benefits and increased motivation for the studies, but a large majority say that the stay was professionally challenging. 35 pst. replied that the professional level out there was higher or much higher than at home. 39 pst. said it was about like home, 22 pst. said it was lower, and 4 pst. replied that it was much lower. It can be explained that studying abroad is more challenging because of language barriers and, where appropriate, greater requirements for participation abroad, rather than differences in professional levels between Norway and other countries. In December, however, we could read about French Juliette as an exchange to Norway as a six - month holiday in relation to French higher education. And the OECD review of the Norwegian higher education and research policy in 2017 concluded that performance in higher education depends on other Nordic countries on several key indicators and is disproportionate to the use of money, which is well above the OECD average. The structural reform was implemented to improve the quality of higher education, but the OECD in its annual indicator report for the education sector warns against further homogenisation of Norwegian higher education and believes that a binary system is preferable, with a clearer division of labour between a research-oriented university sector and a vocational and educational-oriented higher education sector. Furthermore, they believe that research in the Norwegian higher education system is good, but not excellent, that the performance-based part of the funding system does not sufficiently stimulate quality and that there is a need for more competition between and within higher education institutions. I believe that structural reform can have a long-term impact on quality. But it will require more conscious effort to promote quality in an institutional landscape that is apparently homogeneous from the outside, but which is partly very heterogeneous, with strengths and weaknesses, from the inside. Within large merged entities, this heterogeneity can be exploited as a strength, to a common promise of research and education quality and professional relevance. But it has to be done with care. Perhaps the OECD is right that the binary model should be withdrawn in Norway, but not by simply reintroducing it for the university and higher education sectors, but by strengthening higher vocational education in addition to the UH sector. Anyway, continuing to strengthen quality in the UH sector is very important. My question to the Council of State is therefore: How does the Council of State work to follow up the quality notification? And are there other measures than those mentioned in the Quality Communication that the Council of State will take the initiative to increase the quality of higher education?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e1805	Let me start by saying that the quality of Norwegian higher education is good. Most of the students are satisfied, and most of the students get a job. Nevertheless, students are so important to society that we need to work for improvements – all the way. The government's ambitions in this area are reflected in the long-term plan for research and higher education presented in the autumn. In it, education is much better integrated than it was in the previous plan, for example. by the fact that quality in higher education is one of three new escalation plans. The follow-up to the long-term plan is therefore a commitment to study quality. And the follow-up is in progress. In the 2019 budget it is allocated 85 million. kr for a strengthening of Diku's quality programmes, such as will go to new centres of excellence, to learning areas and to facilitate more and better practices in the community health sector. The most important thing for students' learning is what happens in the actual educational situation. Education that engages, acts and works cannot be adopted politically. Also, when it comes to integrating students well into the professional community, the institutions and professional communities out there are holding the key. But know, for example, to require institutions to provide their students with mentoring arrangements, we have given the social and professional integration work a small boost on the road. This way of doing so illustrates the quality message’s approach to governance. The notification sets out objectives and addresses clear expectations to institutions. So the government uses tools that make the snowball roll, and that reinforce the positive trends that are out there. Overall, I am sure that the message has provided a better framework for quality work. Two important actions in the Communication shall contribute to supporting the educational and vocational competence of teachers and professionals. First of all, there is the requirement for all institutions to develop merit-setting systems that value good teaching. The message to the institutions was that the systems should be in place during 2019, but most institutions have already started well. NTNU is an example of an institution that was early out. They earned their first instructors for approx. a year ago. Professor Lars Lundheim was one of the chosen, and he comments on the merit scheme as follows: ‘This is a signal from the management that education is focused on. In the past, education has come under the shadow of research, and this has been the case at most universities’. The second is that we have changed the regulations on recruitment and attendance by increasing the requirements of educational competence. I believe that by putting this in place, we have made a significant contribution to the students actually getting better education and more effective education. A third main action is the creation of Diku’s quality programmes. The quality programmes provide funding for projects that support good professionals to improve and develop, but also to disseminate knowledge of good teaching methods. The first call, which was earmarked for student active learning, was due just before New Year's. Diku received approx. 80 applications and notifies that start-up has already led to a stronger mobilisation for educational quality outside institutions. In line with the long-term research and higher education plan, the allocations to Diku’s quality programmes will be stepped up. It is in 2019 granted 25 million. kr for the new call of the Centre for Excellence in Education. One important aspect of the actions I have mentioned is that they will lead to more use and experience of peer reviews to assess the quality of education. While research activity has been systematically subject to peer reviews, teaching has traditionally been more of a ‘private matter’. I believe that feedback from colleagues on teaching and teaching methods is also essential if we are to develop the educational culture. In the Quality Communication, all institutions were asked to review their study programmes in order to ensure their overall consistency. Quality and progress in the study programmes are, of course, the framework for what students should learn. The institutions follow up, but from there to say that we have come to the goal of the follow-up, is to take a little too hard on. Work on study programmes must be ongoing. The importance of good study programme design remains, therefore, an important issue in the dialogue we have with the institutions. In that work, NOCUT is also an important player. Another measure in the Communication that remains in process is the establishment of a higher education indicator portal. Unit is now looking at different portals in a context and assessing the need for better coordination with a view to improving infrastructure efficiency and making data and statistics on higher education more accessible. The investigation shall end at the beginning of September 2019. It becomes an important basis for deciding how to link and present statistics and data. Several measures could have been mentioned. One of them is that NOCUT has changed the model of supervision so that more attention is paid to how the quality assurance systems of the apprenticeships operate in practice. But I'll spend some time at the end talking about some of the new initiatives that I've taken to improve the quality of study. In the Ministry of Knowledge, we have started work on two new messages, one on international student mobility, to be completed at the turn of the year 2019/2020, and one on cooperation between higher education and working life, to be completed in the spring of 2021. First a little about the mobility message: international cooperation is necessary to address major and global societal challenges. Then the students have to leave. The ambition of the notification is to make stays abroad the norm for Norwegian students, but of course with the option to choose it away if you, for example, want to do so. have children or other reasons not to go out. In 2017, between 15 and 16 pst. by those who obtained a Norwegian degree, have been in exchange. This means making foreign residence and partial studies abroad normal for students requires a real cultural change outside our institutions. An important step is to make international mobility both for students and employees a fully integrated part of the strategic work on quality and relevance in higher education. Making sure that legislation does not create obstacles is another important work. As a continuation of the quality notification, I have also started a notification work to strengthen the relevance of education to work. The aim is to provide employment with access to skilled labour in the future, but also to help students to understand more clearly what their skills can be used for when they have finished studying. More cooperation between educational institutions and the labour market on the development of education is essential. For example, working life needs to be invited to design study programmes. Strengthening the use of employment as a learning area is another important priority. More practice — and not just professional training — is an important contribution to this. Work on both of these messages depends on close dialogue with students, with universities and colleges and with industry and the public sector. The processes we are running in the Department of Knowledge are completely open. Finally, I would like to say that I believe that the quality report has led to a revolution in the work on study quality, not least because the follow-up has been good both politically and in the institutions. The revised long-term plan and the two communications both contribute to the continuation of follow-up work and to our drilling and helping to meet new quality challenges. I look forward to inviting the labour market more closely into the work of developing tomorrow's education. The ambition is that they really deserve to engage even more in the work against our educational institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e1867	Thanks for a clear-cut review by the Council of State and information on the various measures being taken to improve the quality of higher education. It is good and important that the government bets on quality in higher education and research, and there is no doubt that much is done. But does the Council of State think that these measures will help fewer students to fall from higher education, or are there entirely other reasons why so many fall from? I saw an investigation carried out at OsloMet, which has looked at the reasons for the failure of twelve vocational training courses. An interesting finding from the study is that professional motivation is a very important driver for completing the education cycle. Students who have chosen the education because they are professionally interested in the study or the profession to which the study leads have almost halved the tendency to fall from comparison with students with lower professional interest. This applies to both female and male students. At the same time, a 4 or more secondary school characterisation significantly reduces the trend of non-response. The effect of grades is most pronounced in primary school teacher education. But the ratio of non-response to grades is not linear. Both low-quality and high-quality students end more frequently than those with grades around 4. It shows that someone falls off because they don't master the education, while others quit because they don't like it. Men have almost twice as high apostasy as women. Over 30 pst. of the male students who started at OsloMet in 2012, have not completed either the OsloMet or other education five years after the start of the study. Corresponding numbers for women are 13 pst. The students themselves are calling for better follow-up. Mentoring is a good measure. However, the mentoring system implemented as a pilot scheme at UiB unfortunately shows that better follow-up does not prevent non-response. Could it be that it is already failing in preparation for higher education? We see that girls are in the majority of college specialisation in secondary education, and women have the highest level of education in all municipalities now. Yesterday, the Stoltenberg Committee came with its report, which shows that at the end of primary school the girls get better grades than the boys in all subjects except physical exercise. Nearly 70 pst. by those who receive special education in primary school are boys. Girls do better than boys in high school. Five years after the start of secondary education, there are about 30 pst. by the boys and 20 pst. of girls who have not completed secondary education. So my question to the Council of State is: is it possible to increase the quality of higher education and reduce non-response if the basics of primary and secondary education are not good enough?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e1880	The interpellant asks a very important and good question. I wish I could get up here with a simple and concrete answer, but I can't. It's hardly a simple answer to that question, but it's nevertheless important to lift it and discuss it. As the interpellant said, the Stoltenberg Committee recently put forward its work where they point to some of these very issues: Are young people ready to study, and are there differences between young people? That we have a high drop-off, I think we can agree on, and we see that just about. Half of Norwegian students carry out their studies in normal time. We want both to bring down the dropout and to get up the share that can complete in a normal time. As I started to say, I don't have a simple answer to that, because there's hardly any simple answer to how we're going to achieve it. But the students themselves point to this with quality in teaching. They point to different measures that need to be taken: mentoring has already talked a little about, but also about this with more student-active learning methods, the use of digital tools in education, the more active the students, the more relevant the studies, so that students understand what their skills can be used for when they are going to work. I think we have a great potential for improvement within the quality of higher education. And I don't think that's just one thing, we have to do several things. I've been to BioCEED – the Center for Excellent Education in Biology in Bergen. I saw how they work there, how they've managed to change their culture to that education is something they're talking about, that they're discussing, that they're further developing, that they're all trying to get better at. It's a work that doesn't just happen at the center, it's a work that infects the organization and the entire university. That's why I glory in those environments, the ones that drag us forward when it comes to quality work. The students who study there also do that – when you talk to them and hear what they experience as useful and different and positive and what they think makes a difference in their everyday life. It feels very useful. We have also spent a lot of money on a pot that is about building educational facilities. It's been the same traditional form of teaching for hundreds of years in academia. We have other methods now, we have new digital aids. Then we also have to have other types of classrooms, other types of lecture halls that make students more active.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e1891	I notice that the government itself is very pleased with its own work of raising the quality of higher education. Reference is made to the fact that the long-term plan for higher education and research has been revised, but the representative Synnes may have been abducted here before deciding that the government's proposal for revision has been adopted. The representative of Synnes, however, knows as well as we do that the Right gets it as they please, and the Left and Christian People's Party does as they are told. At least let me get a brief memory of what the bourgeois government has done. In the Quality Communication, the government announced that the financing for higher education should be based more on competition in the long term. This has been followed up by the government. The basic appropriations are weakened and the government distorts those institutions that have the best assumptions to meet the increasing number of indicators, so-called BOA indicators. Today’s performance-based funding system prevents universities and colleges from making long-term plans for their activities, and weak basic funding contributes to increased temporaryity and weakens the working conditions of employees. For many of the new and merged institutions, one-sided competence requirements prevent the performance of the societal mission of the former higher education institutions. This has led to places of study being threatened with closure, which in turn could result in a lack of competence in the districts. The Solberg government’s so-called red tape and efficiency reform has helped cut the expenditure level by 8.4 billion. during the period 2015-2018. For 2018, according to the Research Association's estimates, this is in isolation equivalent to the compensation of employees to 11,000 annual works. The cheese mats that'll soon amount to 10 billion. kr, has ceased to be effective for the longest time. This affects the provision of study and the follow-up of the students. I would therefore like to congratulate you on the work done to follow up the government's message, which I would now like to name as a culture for cutting higher education. For SV, good study quality is also about good working conditions for employees and universal support and welfare schemes for students. The use of temporary positions in the academy needs to be reduced. We believe that there are good opportunities for getting more permanent jobs by redeploying temporary jobs that are currently used to meet permanent teaching needs, such as: hours teaching positions, temporary university lecturer positions and other temporary teaching positions. Today’s intensive funding system prevents universities and colleges from making long-term plans for their activities, and weak basic funding contributes to increased temporaryity and weakens the working conditions of employees. We therefore believe that the basic allocation needs to be increased, and we want to change the funding system so that it takes account of differences in institutional assumptions, trade unions, study location structure and tasks. SV will introduce a mentoring scheme for students, that all educational institutions have to have a student representative, complete 11 months of student support and raise the level to 1.5 of the basic amount of population benefit and build a minimum of 4000 student housing per year. Everyone shall have equal rights to education. The role of universities and higher education institutions is an important prerequisite for democracy and gives each individual insight, maturity and reflection. The concept of quality in higher education and research must therefore be defined more broadly than in a dietary/benefit perspective. Norwegian education and research policies must reflect the society we want and the social mission that the labour and business community requires, both regionally and nationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e1910	First, I would like to thank the interpellant for bringing up the theme. We're glad she's addressing this question. It is quite similar to the question asked by the Labour Party, by the representative Nina Sandberg, to the Minister of Higher Education and Research earlier, last spring. Then there were no very complementary answers from the Council of State, so we are pleased that the question is being asked again. The working party was critical of the fact that the previous long-term plan scarcely had anything to do with higher education and quality in education. It is better in the long-term plan to be addressed by the Stortinget. But what we hear from the sector during the examination of the long-term plan now is that the previous long-term plan was successful where there were concrete initiatives and concrete follow-up plans. What is now called for from the sector are concreteisations and concrete follow-up plans in several fields. We lack a clearer link between the quality message and the long-term plan for higher education. I want to use the opportunity to also address some concrete initiatives that we believe are important for the quality of higher education. Good education is essential in the social mission of the institutions, but it does not come about by itself. Nor does it come as a result of a commitment to research. Excellent researchers are not automatically excellent educators. Many of us have experienced it on our own. A close link between research and education is therefore essential and education should be linked to research at all levels. Students should be allowed to participate in practical training, with researchers, with the leading professionals. We are not critical of necessarily the intentions – either in the quality notification or in the long-term plan – in this area, but of the lack of concrete measures and priorities to meet the objectives that we all agree with. The fact that students receive more research-based education is one of the most important things to ensure that they take up up-to-date knowledge to society and business. We believe that this connection is too weak today. We're all concerned with the quality of higher education. The long-term plan announces that there will be 250 million. kr to higher education quality – not in 2019, but during the ageing period. The research association writes about this: ‘Getting the ambition level in the Quality Communication, the Swedish Research Association expected a stronger commitment.’ And they continue to write about the long-term plan: ‘The LTP does not contain any real response to a long-term improvement in the quality of education.’ Also NOKUT's director, Terje Mørland, writes on his blog: «Low commitment to quality in higher education in the long term» And then Morland writes: ‘Unfortunately, the level of ambition is much lower than I had expected.’ Here it is an area where the Council of State can increase not only the level of ambition but the concrete effort, for of the 250 million. SEK to be granted for higher education in total during the four-year period, is SEK 85 million. kr in 2019. That means it's not more than 165 million. kr is left to use in the last three years of the period. When we know that projects and bets tend to go over several years, this may have taken out most of the impact of the escalation plan already after the first year. One challenge I would like to point out is the commitment to the Centre for Excellent Education. In November, the Council of State made it clear that 25 million for 2019 will be spent on the Centres for Excellent Education. But 25 million. kr is barely enough to release a new round of Centers for Excellent Education. If one is to bet on five new centres, such a bet would hardly be possible within the level of ambition of the government in the long-term plan. I specifically wonder how the Council of State will set up several centres for excellent education with the means that have been notified. I would also like to mention that we are impatient to put in place a mentoring system, and I am calling for the follow-up that Stortinget has requested. Another follow-up is the proposal to ensure that students have equal access to help in their everyday study, the proposal of the student representative, for which we were given a majority in Stortinget last year. What's the status of that? Does the Council know how many institutions currently have access — or do not have access — to student ombudsmen? It's important to ensure that the goals we've set ourselves are actually followed up at the institutions of the students.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e1948	Thank you very much for a good debate on quality in higher education. I have to start by saying that I do not know myself at all in the description of SV's misery, and I come from the sector myself, as the headmaster of the Ålesund University, who has later been merged with NTNU. On the contrary, we see that universities are now struggling to spend their appropriations, and have been instructed by the Council of State to do just that. The representative Meisfjord Jøsevold brought forward the mentoring order, which is to be legislated, and presents it as something new. And when it comes to building more student homes, I have to remind the representative that it has never been built more student homes than it is now – 2,500 student homes per year. When the red-greens were in government, there were about 1,000 student homes. So I just don't know myself again in that criticism. With regard to the Workers' Party, the representative Martin Henriksen says that there is no focus on research-based education, while the representative talks about SFUs – centres of excellence. I would remind the representative that the purpose of SFUs is precisely to stimulate excellent R & D-based education. So when the government bets on SFUs and gives $25 million. In this budget, it is estimated that research-based education will be spent on fresh funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e1959	I would also like to start by thanking you for the debate, with several important contributions and good contributions. First of all, with a student representative, as Martin Henriksen, says: If I am not completely wrong, there are now ten institutions that have student representatives. The matter that was decided in Stortinget last year, we are in the process of following up. So I'll get back to that. So a little bit to SV's posts: like the interpellant, I don't quite know myself in the reality description when you consistently mention it as the base is weak. Everything is relative – including this – but there are eight institutions that have received a rather tight letter from me, because they have hundreds of millions of dollars standing on the book and do not spend the money that the Stortinget has granted. So the situation isn't as black as this one refers to. I also believe that the quality bet we have made is important and correct. Therefore, I admit that I was a little disappointed when I saw the SV's alternative state budget, where they went in and cut 25 million. kr to just the quality development of higher education. I believe that we need to bring forward the excellent environments, because we cannot just focus on the excellent environments in research. We also need to raise the importance of education, and then it is important that we also give some good professional environments the opportunity to develop further, to try out new things and to develop new forms of education. Because that way we have some spearheads that can also inspire and spread their knowledge to the rest of the sector. So I think the effort we've made on Diku is important and correct. Discussing quality in higher education is important for many reasons. But here we're talking about thousands of students who are once going into a working life and into a business that's going to be involved in the transition our country is going through. It is our duty, it is our task, to ensure that the education they receive enables them to carry out the formidable tasks they face in the future. This is a sector where we can never lean back and say we're done now, now we're satisfied. Not least in terms of quality in higher education, this is a sector in which we must constantly strive to improve. In the long-term plan for research and higher education, it has been a goal for us not only to talk about what is happening in the Ministry of Knowledge, because this is not just important for the Ministry of Knowledge. This is important for the whole government, and it is important for the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e1974	That's good to hear. The debate on substance is closed. 8 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e1996	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. It's proposal No 1, from Liv Signe Navarsete on behalf of the Centre Party proposal No 2, by Anniken Huitfeldt on behalf of the Workers' Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the publication by 1 March 2019 of an up-to-date version of the plan Norway, like the other NATO countries, submitted before 31 December 2018 on the national follow-up of NATO’s two-percentage targets, including NATO’s assessment of the Norwegian plan as it emerged in the context of NATO’s 13-14 Defence Ministerial Meeting. February.’» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e2029	Alternatively, between the setting and proposal No. One from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to submit a defence escalation plan in order to achieve NATO’s defence rights target of 2 pst. of GDP in 2024. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e2048	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. It's proposal No 1, from Elise Björnebeck-Waaagen on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No 2, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate and implement measures to raise awareness of the paediatric vaccination programme, in cooperation with both national and municipal health services, and to provide appropriate information on the size of the infant vaccination programme.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e2081	Alternatively, between the setting and proposal No. One, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to investigate and propose the necessary changes to the IPD Act and the related regulations to ensure that municipalities who so wish can carry out a trial project with mandatory MMR vaccination call at 15 months and 11-12 years’ age’.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e2098	President, I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e2103	I also voted incorrectly.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e2108	At least two pieces were wrong. Then we take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e2124	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. It's proposal No 1, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party proposal No 2, from Sheida Sangtarash on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to ensure the implementation of a professional authorisation scheme for child protection educators and socionomists by proposing to extend the Health Care Act to these professions, in the context of the follow-up to Bufdir’s investigation.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e2157	Alternatively, between the setting and proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to ensure the implementation of a professional authorisation scheme for child protection educators and socionomists.’ The Green Party has announced its support for the proposal, and the Socialist Left and Red have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e2258	In Case No: 7 and 8 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-05.ana.ud294e2289	As a result, the cases on today's map have been completed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? I don't think so. - The meeting's been cancelled.
