ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-08.ana.ud356e37	The President will benefit from this first meeting day of the new year to wish the representatives, the members of the government, all elected members and others who have worked together with the Stortinget, a really good new year! Representatives Eigil Knutsen, Else-May Botten, Hanne Dyveke Sweets, Solfrid Lerbreck, Kirsti Leirtrø, Lene Westgaard-Halle and Elise Björnebeck-Waaagen, who have been licensed, have taken the seat again. The following shall now be called up by the alternates: For Oslo: Tina Shagufta Munir Kornmo For the Province of Troms: Regina Alexandrova
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-08.ana.ud356e85	The representative, Maria Aasen-Svensrud, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-08.ana.ud356e90	On behalf of the representatives of Lene Vågslid, Jan Bøhler, Kari Henriksen, Hadia Tajik and myself, I would like to make proposals on the implementation of the criminal justice system.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-08.ana.ud356e95	The proposal will be dealt with in accordance with the rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-08.ana.ud356e111	Thank you for the opportunity to give a presentation on the Libya Committee report, which was presented on 13 September last year. The mandate of the Committee was to provide an evaluation of Norwegian participation in the Libyan operations in 2011. The report is intended, among other things, to: provide an experience base for future Norwegian contributions to international operations and contribute to a more informed public debate on Norwegian foreign and security policy. I believe that the sample has succeeded. In order to evaluate the Norwegian effort, it is necessary to take into account the situation as it was in 2011 and the information base of the then Stoltenberg II Government, like other Norwegian actors, at that time. There are very few decisions that are more demanding for a government than to participate in international military operations and therefore also send Norwegian soldiers into potentially dangerous missions. Let me first start with the situation the world community was facing in 2011. The background of the Libya operations and the circumstances around them were unique in several ways. There was a clear and broad mandate from the UN Security Council for military use under Chapter VII of the United Nations Charter. That the Security Council managed to reach an agreement, without China or Russia vetoing, was surprising to most at that time. The Security Council took this decision because it was considered necessary to protect the Libyan civilian population. Furthermore, the Arab League itself had asked for military intervention in Libya, and there was support from most countries in the region. Such regional support belongs to the rare unit and built legitimacy around the Security Council decision. In addition, almost all of our allies felt that military use of power was necessary. At home, our participation in Libya had the support of all the parties represented at the Stortinget. It was therefore a very broad international support for the intervention. Why was that so? The answer lies in the clear opinion in March 2011 that Gaddafi's forces were on their way to Benghazi, and that it would be a bloodbath if they were to attack the city. It was necessary to respond, and there was broad consensus that it was urgent. The decision on the use of power to protect civilians came after the Security Council had already unanimously adopted comprehensive sanctions against the Gaddafi regime in February, which Gaddafi ignored. Any use of military power raises dilemmas, and without a fascist hand in hand as to what such decisions may lead to, uncertainty will always be linked to the outcome. The members of the Security Council face difficult balances in the exercise of their responsibilities for international peace and security. In particular, it is imperative to reach agreement on decisions concerning military use of power against one of the United Nations Member States. World society doesn't have a perfect system for making such important decisions, but that's the system we have. We have several examples from history where the lack of intervention produced disastrous results – such as in Srebrenica and Rwanda. This was precisely an important historical lesson for several members of the Security Council when the situation in Libya developed in 2011. It is important to remember that not to act is also a choice that has consequences. The current view in 2011 was that the world community actually had a chance to prevent serious abuse in Benghazi. It was agreed by the Security Council and the Council adopted its mandate. The decision of the then Norwegian Stoltenberg government to participate in the Libyan operations was thus seen as a natural follow-up to the Norwegian support for the Security Council’s decision. I believe the report well illustrates the situation in March 2011 and the decision-making processes associated with Norwegian participation. The government's decision to participate was taken very quickly. However, the selection concludes that the formal processes leading to the decision to participate with Norwegian forces met all the constitutional requirements. Both the treatment in the government and the consultations with the Stortinget are given a thorough review in the report. The sample also concludes that in this case Norway is able to ‘take decisions quickly and deploy in a very short time’, and that it is ‘decisive to maintain the ability to act quickly when the situation requires it’. I agree with that assessment. Our scheme related to Norwegian participation in international operations is that the Stortinget is consulted on the government's decision, but no consent or decision is required in the Stortinget. This arrangement also follows from a clear division of responsibilities between grossing-up and government, which I believe is right, and which should be firm. At the same time, it is important that a real consultation is conducted with the Stortinget and that the Stortinget is kept up-to-date. It is a long, continuous and good practice that Norwegian governments place a decisive emphasis on broad support in the United Kingdom on key foreign and security policy issues. It creates predictability and ensures the long lines of Norway’s foreign policy. This government has been committed to continuing its practice, including: in connection with our military contribution to the anti-ISIL coalition. The Committee points out that the Constitution should be revised in order to give a more comprehensive expression of the law and practice in force as regards the international operations for which Norwegian forces can be used, and when and how the Storting should be involved. It is natural and understandable that the sample addresses this question. At the same time, it is important to stress that the sample does not criticise today’s constitutional practices. In Norway, we have a tradition of a certain conservatism in changing the Constitution. It doesn't happen often. But at the end of the day it is the Storting that has to decide whether to make any changes to the Constitution and that is in line with the process requirements of the Constitution. It is important that the sample confirms that Libya's operations had a solid basis for international law, both in the past and in today's government. The report confirms that the operations were carried out within the framework of the mandate of the Security Council Resolution 1973 of 17 March 2011. In my view, the report gives a good and thorough account of the key legal issues relating to the basis of international law for the operations in Libya and Norwegian participation in them. The committee has further examined the concrete commitments under humanitarian law and whether they were met by Norwegian forces during the implementation of the operations. The committee confirms that the Norwegian contribution for the strength complied with Norway’s humanitarian obligations. I also take note of the recommendation made by the Selection Board for future operations that the government's assessments of the legal basis for military use on the territory of a foreign country are clearly reflected in the decision-making basis, and that such assessments are made public as far as possible. In connection with Norwegian participation in the International Coalition against ISIL in Syria, the Office's assessments of the international legal basis were laid down in writing and published in full. So this was back in 2016. It is, as far as I have been able to clarify, the first time this is done on such a scale and in such a way. I record that the sample points out that this publication is an example of follow-up. At the same time, not all around these operations can be published. That's why we have the extended Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. As I opened with, the use of military power travels many dilemmas, and the report illuminates this in a good way. I would like to touch some of these dilemmas. The first is the dilemma of acting versus not acting. Attempts to counterfactual conclusions about what had happened without a military intervention in Libya, I would warn against. That type of post-clearance watch was not part of the decision base of the Stoltenberg II Government in March 2011. Nor was it for the UN Security Council in 2011. There is little doubt that in 2011, the UN Security Council, NATO and other relevant actors realised that there were several risk factors in a military action. Interacting with conflicts can create dynamics that are not expected or anticipated. Nevertheless, a decision must be made. - Should you intervene, or not? The Security Council made its choice to adopt a mandate in the spring of 2011. It was followed up -- first by an American-led coalition and then by NATO. Another dilemma relates to what is good enough information. Different countries have varying degrees of knowledge and information about Libya in 2011. When it was decided to contribute to the implementation of the mandate of the Security Council by participating in the NATO operation, Norway had to rely largely on information provided by the UN, NATO, single allies and other sources. It is not unique when we participate in international operations. It is not uncommon to have to rely more or less on access to information from foreign sources. That's the way it'll be in the future. Having said that, I consider it very important – as this government has also stressed – to have an independent assessment of the situation and of risk factors. This applies both before we make a decision to send a strong contribution, and this applies during the mission. Contributing to military operations involves many different types of risks, which need to be reduced as far as possible. Reducing risks can only be addressed through national assessments, supported by information from allies and partners. This is something we have put great emphasis on, among other things. During our military participation in the coalition against ISIL, in UN operations MINUSMA in Mali and in the Resolute Support Mission in Afghanistan – to point out three examples. Nevertheless, I should also ideally have wanted a much greater degree of safe information before this type of decision. But the reality is that we never want all the information we wanted. That doesn't mean it's wrong to decide military contributions. We must always weigh the consequences of acting against the consequences of not acting. A third dilemma is that we can't always control how a conflict, and therefore also a military operation, develops. We've seen in the past that military operations can evolve in a direction that could not be predicted at the start. This is often due to changed and usually unforeseen conditions on the ground. In Libya, the aim of military operations was to protect civilians. The objective was not a regime change in Libya. However, the selection considers that it must have been made clear to the Norwegian authorities in the course of the NATO operation that regime change would be a consequence of the operation. I cannot comment on what the previous government should have understood at different times in 2011. The central thing, in my opinion, is that you have systems that make it possible to reconsider the situation if it changes along the way. The changes we have made several times in the arrangement of our contribution to the coalition against ISIL show that the government is aware of this. One of the last dilemmas I want to mention is the role of Norway in a broader international effort. As the sample points out, it may be difficult to promote Norwegian positions in a coalition with many countries. We are, in general, a small country, and we must always ensure that what we do is in line with the policy we want Norway to pursue. It is therefore important to have an exit strategy for our own efforts. We must always set clear targets for military action and set a clear framework for when we are going out. Norway also has a tradition of emphasising policy solutions to conflicts. There should be a high threshold for the use of military power. Sometimes, however, you can't avoid it. The report of the sample shows that the political track, the Libyan contact group, did not function satisfactorily and that Norway did not have much impact on its views. The committee also points to considerable frustration on the Norwegian side about having to share the seat of the Libyan contact group with the other Scandinavian countries. In the Libyan operations, we had a heavy military contribution, which meant that we should have a separate place at the table in the contact group. Norway must make its voice heard. The same applies to the role of Norway in NATO. The selection concludes that Norway actively contributed to NATO’s decision-making processes and that Norwegian efforts were being made to influence the processes both formally and informally. However, the extent of influence actually exerted by Norway was also limited. I agree with the sample that we need to have realistic expectations as to what role Norway can play in such an operation, but I still believe that we need to continue using the tools and forums we have to promote Norwegian views and priorities. At the end of the day, on the Norwegian side, we are ourselves responsible for the decisions we are making and our efforts, even if they take place within the framework of a broader international effort. In summary, the four dilemmas I have highlighted illustrate that a government rarely or never has the choice between ideal solutions to assess the use of military power and when responding to the international community's decision to use all the necessary means to protect the civilian population. The choice is usually between more or less poor, or not optimal, solutions. But the essence is that not acting is also a choice with consequences — in many cases among the serious consequences. There is a broad international consensus that there was a lack of follow-up in Libya after the military operations. While the operations themselves were carried out in a good way, not enough was done to stabilise Libya after the military operations were completed. There are several reasons for this. As the sample points out in its report, the new Libyan authorities did not wish for a heavy international presence in the transition phase. There was also no political will among the members of the Security Council to adopt, for example: a peacekeeping operation in Libya. Instead, the Security Council decided to establish a political support contribution in the form of UNSMIL, which had a light footprint. As we have seen, Libya was not doing well. So the lesson is that if you go into such an extensive military operation, you have to have a plan for what comes next. However, there was strong scepticism for long-term involvement in Libya, especially in the United States, after Iraq and Afghanistan. What happened in Libya after 2011 also showed that Libyan society was much more complex than many thought. Old dividing lines between tribes and ethnic groups came to the surface, and there was a struggle for power and resources. Lack of tradition of free political activity combined with weak state institutions proved to be a much greater challenge than the international community had first come to its senses. This again shows the importance of having as much information as possible to understand the country in which you choose to engage. While there were some signs of positive development in Libya after 2011, things quickly went in the wrong direction. The situation developed into a political crisis in 2014. A UN-negotiated political agreement for Libya was signed in 2015. Nevertheless, the political and security situation remains unclear and unstable. An internationally recognised assembly government was established in 2016, but has not succeeded in taking control of the country, which is characterised by a clear distinction between East and West. The UN Special Representative Salamé’s proposal for an action plan and the follow-up to the Libyan political agreement are supported by an international community as a whole. Nevertheless, there is limited progress in work. This is due to parallel institutions, political contradictions and economic motives in Libya. The Salamé plan is to hold a national conference at the beginning of 2019 and then elections during the spring. But it's a demanding process. Before elections can be made, a referendum must be held on a new constitution and a new electoral law must be adopted. A number of key Libyan actors see political and economic merit in maintaining the status quo, thus stagnating the efforts to establish a constitutional electoral framework. The security situation has worsened in large parts of the country in recent months. The UN was able to negotiate a truce between rival militias in Tripoli on 4 September 2018, but the situation is still unstable. The situation south of the country is considered to be precarious. Several areas are almost completely unserviceable by the authorities, and both Al Qaida and ISIL are present. The situation in Libya has a number of consequences that are felt directly in Europe as well. It is in the interests of Norway, Europe and the world community to contribute to a solution that can stabilise Libya. Norway must therefore also contribute to the efforts towards Libya. We are providing assistance, with emphasis on measures that can give increased national impetus to the ongoing UN political process. This is mainly done by supporting UNDP’s stabilisation funds, such as: shall contribute to the rapid reconstruction of critical infrastructure, increased capacity of local authorities and peace-building activities. Norway also provides humanitarian support through the World Food Programme, the Red Cross and the Refugee Aid. Norwegian contributions to the EU Trust Fund for Africa support projects to improve the difficult situation of both Libyans and stranded migrants. Norway increased its contribution to the fund to 60 million in 2018. kr, so that the total amount of aid to the Fund since 2016 is SEK 140 million. kr. On the Norwegian side, since 2011, we have been supporting the work of the UN, including the current Special Representative Salamé. In recent years, we have also strengthened our commitment to peace and reconciliation, including through partner organisations. It directly and indirectly supports the UN-led work on development and political stability in Libya. The situation in Libya cannot be resolved by military means. A broad and inclusive process is needed to move forward. My statement has concerned only some of the issues and dilemmas that arise when discussing Norwegian participation in international operations. Military power alone is never the solution; it must always be calibrated and co-ordinated with other efforts — if not, it will often have negative consequences. I therefore very much appreciate the opportunity to explain and have a dialogue with the Storting on these questions. Finally, I would like to take the opportunity to thank the Selection Board for its work and report, which is an important contribution to the ongoing debate on the use of Norwegian military power abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-08.ana.ud356e218	Let me thank you for the opportunity to explain the experience of the Libyan operations and our assessments of the sample report. The committee has done a very thorough job. The report contains many good judgements and recommendations that I share and that are already or will be followed up. It highlights how demanding it is to make decisions with uncertainty, as well as the many dilemmas we face when participating in international operations. Sending soldiers into armed conflict is among the most serious decisions a government can make. I am therefore pleased that the sample concludes that the government’s decision-making processes in 2011 met all the constitutional requirements and that the formal procedures for consultation with the Storting were followed. It's important. This is about trust in our political system. The intervention of the international community in Libya in 2011 has played a major role in how NATO, our closest allies and we in Norway think about international efforts. It was a very unique situation, but experience has helped shape how we plan and carry out international operations today. By "we" I mean in the government, in the defense and in NATO. The UN Security Council unanimously decided that it was necessary to use power to protect the civilian population. Our closest allies were ready to contribute. The government, supported by a broad majority on the Stortinget, considered Norway to have co-responsibility for follow-up to Security Council Resolution 1973. Defense was able to plan and deploy in record time. We had planes, weapons and crews that were well trained and suitable for solving a very demanding task. The operations in Libya, on which the Minister for Foreign Affairs has been involved, illustrate how demanding it is to use military force to protect civilians. It is a reminder that international power diplomacy does not necessarily give the results hoped for. Military instruments alone are not sufficient. The Libya operations also showed us how dependent NATO was and still is on American capabilities and support functions. This is relevant to the ongoing debate on burden-sharing in NATO and how European countries can take greater responsibility. The Minister for Foreign Affairs underlined in his statement an important point that Norway is making decisions on international operations, ensuring efficiency and flexibility. It is essential to maintain the government’s ability to make decisions in time-critical situations. Good situational understanding and own assessments are important. The Libya Committee has pointed out that this could have been better, that Norway should have a more independent basis for assessing conflict situations where Norway is thinking of involvement. It's hard to disagree with. At the same time, we need to recognise that many decisions need to be made with a high degree of uncertainty when there is time pressure. We must also recognise that small countries will always have limited own capacity to deep understanding of all potential conflict areas at all times. Many have been taken in recent years to strengthen the government’s understanding of the situation. The intelligence service has been strengthened and the government is regularly briefed on international conflicts relevant to Norwegian foreign and security interests. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Defence have strengthened their crisis management capacity. Cooperation procedures with Defence are even closer than in 2011, contributing to greater information exchange, common situational understanding and enhanced analytical capacity when formulating decision-making bases. This government has also placed great emphasis on sharing its assessments with the Storting in appropriate forums and at an early stage. I think we're clear on many of the dilemmas and challenges we face when we're going to participate in out-of-office operations. As the report points out, small countries in the mainstream policy are also responsible for asking questions1, validating information and making independent assessments. I mean, we do, but we can get even better. Wide opening up of the main priorities of security and foreign policy is important. The involvement of the size in assessments related to international efforts is crucial to legitimacy. Norwegian boys and girls assigned to Norway should not be in doubt that Norwegian participation decisions are taken on a solid basis and have broad political support. Openness and close consultation on our foreign exposures are something that this government has stressed. We have carried out frequent consultations in the enlarged Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence and have made public statements on Afghanistan and on our participation in the fight against ISIL. The committee proposes to publish royal resolutions dealing with Norwegian international efforts in operations. The government strives to be open about most, with the exception of what challenges operational security, the safety of personnel and the relationship with allies. The system of closed consultations and sharing classified information with Stortinget works well. The defense carried out a demanding task with great precision and care, and I think the sample has been well received in a good way that thorough assessments were made and precautions were taken to ensure that Norwegian obligations under the international law of the war were complied with. The national control of the strength contribution was good. Norwegian personnel shall not doubt the political anchoring or their status in the conflict. They weren't in any doubt about this either. Their legal rights and obligations were operationalised through instructions, orders and exposure rules, as is common in all operations. Ensuring the legal status of Norwegian personnel in future operations is day-to-day work. In this context, I would like to refer to Sahel, where it is now working to establish agreements on the legal status of personnel in countries that may be involved in Norwegian contributions. A satisfactory legal clarification of the status of Norwegian personnel is a prerequisite for Norwegian participation in operations and therefore a work that starts even before final political decisions are taken. When the Defense participates in international operations, as a general rule, we will participate in coalitions of countries or under the direction of a UN, NATO or EU force. Regardless of association, it is essential for Norwegian authorities to influence planning and implementation. But we have to be realistic about what influence we have on what we're part of. The selection underlines the importance of staff at different levels of the command structure to provide insight and understanding as well as to influence. This is a vision I fully share. Norway currently has personnel in key functions in all the operations in which we participate. In coalition operations, this is particularly important. We give priority to having representation at all the relevant headquarters to get the best possible transparency and influence on the operations we are part of. This applies to ongoing operations in the fight against ISIL, but also to the training and mentoring of security forces in the Sahel region. This is important for transparency and influence in both planning and implementation. In NATO, we have worked to get personnel involved in intelligence, operational planning and logistics. The ability to support Norwegian out-of-office strength contributions has also been strengthened. Since 2011, skills in target selection and military law have also been improved. This work must continue. The Committee points out that Norway actively contributed at all levels in NATO, and that the control of the use of the empowerment contribution functioned well and in line with political and legal frameworks. I want to commend the staff who participated in Libya in 2011, who carried out the mission very professionally. The selection points to weaknesses in the formalisation of some orders and instructions. I have noticed this, and I will follow it up. A clear common understanding of the mission and mechanisms to ensure notoriety and traceability at all levels of the command line is essential. Let me conclude with some reflections on the systematisation of experience and the evaluation of international efforts. Subsequent clocks are often referred to as the most exact science. It is not possible to reverse the time and guess how it would have been in Libya if the international community had not intervened, or if Norway had not participated. This is an exercise without a phase response. Any international crisis or conflict is unique and the policy handling and subsequent action needs to be adapted to the situation. However, there are lessons learned from the situation in Libya in 2011 which should influence future crisis management and decisions related to participation in international operations. A lot is already done. Experience learning is systematized in the Defence and Ministry, and we use planning processes and checklists to ensure that all essential aspects of planning and implementation are highlighted. As a general rule, Norway will be one of many actors in international crisis management, and there are many aspects of a conflict situation or how it is managed by the international community, which we cannot control. I feel that there is a great awareness of the limitations of what military power alone can accomplish, especially in the ranks of the Defence. Both Afghanistan, Iraq and Libya have illustrated that Western intervention is not sustainable alone, and that it often becomes more complex, lasts longer and costs more than intended. What we have learned is that local ownership is crucial for success, and therefore, operations such as the Resolute Support Mission in Afghanistan and the fight against ISIL local leadership as a principle. Support for capacity building, so that countries can more effectively address their own safety challenges, is now fully dimensioning in most of Norway’s activities. More efforts need to be made, both nationally and internationally, in relation to the definition of objectives and exit strategy. Realistic expectations and realistic goals are an important lesson from Libya. It is important to recognise complexity and that if efforts do not have the intended effect, there may be a need to change the course. These assessments are best done by the Norwegian side in close dialogue and in close cooperation with our allies.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-08.ana.ud356e269	In accordance with Article 45(c) of the Rules of Procedure of the United Kingdom, the President will request that the statement on the evaluation of Norway’s participation in the operations in Libya in 2011 be sent to the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee. The Bears of Moxnes have asked for the word for the treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-08.ana.ud356e276	Red proposes that the statement on participation in the Libyan War be debated in the Chamber today and that the statement be sent to committee thereafter. There are several reasons why we are proposing this. Firstly, there is too little open debate on foreign policy in the United Kingdom. Secondly, going to war among the most serious decisions a state can take on behalf of its population. When the decision to go to war with Libya was made, partly by texting between the state councils, there was hardly any open debate in the United Kingdom at all – at least no debate that was worthy of democracy on such an important matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-08.ana.ud356e283	The representative must stick to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-08.ana.ud356e288	I justify why we are proposing a debate. I have two more points. Thirdly, when we know the consequences of the war on Libya and the region, the least we can demand is that the statement be debated thoroughly and openly from today on. There will be a bad start to the evaluation of the Libyan war on only politicians who supported the war, coming up in the main hall today. Fourthly, with Red's proposal, the Storting must not discuss a matter without being prepared. The report came in September. We've had over three months to read it. Finally, there is nothing in Storting's Rules of Procedure that suggests that a matter cannot be debated in the Chamber before it goes to committee. This happened in connection with the handling of the case about the Sørlandsbanen and Go-Ahead before Christmas, and it also happened with the handling of the case about the Air ambulance service before the summer. With that, I take up the Red's proposal to have a debate today and that the statement be sent to committee after that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-08.ana.ud356e299	The representative of the Bears Moxnes has proposed that, in accordance with Rule 45 of the Rules of Procedure, a comment round be opened with one post from each party group of up to 5 minutes and final posts from members of the Government. Is there anyone else asking for the word of the procedure? Representative Huitfeldt, please.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-08.ana.ud356e306	The Labour Party will vote against the Red's proposal. It was the Stortinge that ordered the Libyan evaluation on the basis of today's two statements from the government. When the Stortinget receives statements from the government, we initially have two procedures: we can hold a debate directly or afterwards, maybe a few days later, or we can send the statement to the committee for a thorough examination. The Workers' Party considers it appropriate to forward the statement to the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee for consideration. After all, it is precisely a criticism that has been promoted against the Stortingen's handling of foreign military issues, that one of the Stortingen's side has to deal with matters right above the table. The present statement has not been sent to Stortinget in advance. In my opinion, this matter deserves proper treatment. I therefore believe that we will have a broader, more informed and more thorough discussion if the matter is dealt with in committee – with the opening of comments and proposals and followed by a properly prepared discussion in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-08.ana.ud356e315	I had written on my note that it was high time that this statement came to Stortinget. It's not. It's long overtime. We will be given a thorough and good consideration in the committee with subsequent debate. However, the Rules of Procedure allow us to combine different forms of debate, i.e. we can have a short round of responses after a statement and then send the matter to the Committee before we have a final debate in Stortinget. I think it would be an advantage if we did it more often, especially in matters of great importance, and this is undoubtedly a matter of great importance. I would ask the Group of the Party of European Socialists to vote in favour of the proposal from the Red Group.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-08.ana.ud356e322	It is easy to sympathise with a proposal for an open debate. It also wants the centre party, but we also want a ban on debate. In any case, through the briefings that have been held here today, I have noted several points that I would like to continue working with in the Committee, and then come back to the Storting for a broad, open and good debate. I've read the report to the Libyan Committee. I was also one of the people who was called to contribute. I was in the government. I definitely want to welcome an open debate, but I do not want to support the proposal for Red today. I want to have the good and thorough treatment that we can have in the committee – associated with any hearings and recordings that we have received, and certainly will come forward – and then come back to the Chamber for a thorough debate later.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-08.ana.ud356e330	A little unexpected, this has become a round of announcements. I just want to support the committee leader and give a further justification. It's true that this investigation of the Libyan exposure has been going on for months, but it's now, from the Parliament's pulpit today, we've got the government's more detailed explanation of how they view the situation, as described in the investigation. I would like to say that it will serve the Storting's debates that we are going to have a regular discussion of this in the committee, so that we have an up-to-date basis and can find out where we agree, and possibly where we disagree with the assessments that have been made. The respect for the committee's work and respect for the Storting's own work on such serious issues as this suggests that we send this to the committee, and then the Stortinget gets exactly the debate that the representative Moxnes is looking for.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-08.ana.ud356e339	This concerns the misunderstanding of our proposal. So we are not against having a committee procedure and then having an open debate. We are for that. We are in addition to the fact that the Stortinge does what we have done in the case of the Sørlandsbanen, Go-Ahead and Luftambulansen, i.e. now has a debate in addition to committee proceedings. That is our proposal – nothing but that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-08.ana.ud356e344	This has been demonstrated through the debate on the treatment procedure. No more words have been asked.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-08.ana.ud356e355	We then go to voting on the way in which the matter is handled. 1st@item: inlistbox The President has proposed that the distribution be dealt with under point (c) of the first paragraph of Section 45 of the Rules of Procedure, i.e. send to the Foreign and Defence Committee. The representative of the Bears Moxnes has proposed that the distribution be dealt with under point (a) of the first paragraph of Section 45 of the Rules of Procedure, i.e. The debate is closed. The President will propose that there should be an alternative vote between these two proposals. The Socialist Left has already supported the proposal of the representative of the Moxnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-08.ana.ud356e375	As a result, the proposal by the President is agreed and the distribution is sent to committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-08.ana.ud356e391	At the request of the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Work Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Centre Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Christian Party 5 minutes, Environmental Party Green 5 minutes and Red 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to seven rows of replies are given by members of the Government. In addition, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-08.ana.ud356e404	Report. St. 19 for 2017-2018 does well for the volume of exports of weapons, ammunition and other military materials from Norway in 2017. It is about what goods, services and technology relate to these goods that were exported, to which destination and the value of exports. The notification also addresses Norwegian export control policy, current legislation and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs’ handling of applications for export of defence equipment, technology and services for military purposes. International work is also being informed when it comes to export control and non-proliferation. The size wants to ensure maximum transparency in the export of defence equipment from Norway. Increased transparency and information have contributed to a more open sector and a broader societal debate on defence-related sport. The same is true of Norway's reporting within the UN framework on arms and military trading, ATT, now is public. It is important to stress that exports of defence equipment should only go to recipients and recipient countries within the guidelines of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the handling of licence applications, the main principle of which was laid down by the Decision of the Grand Duchy of Great Britain of 1959 and 1997. Norway currently has one of the world's most stringent rules for the export of defence equipment. At the same time, we continue to assess the correct design of the legislation in this Chamber and whether stricter regulations are needed. The total value of arms exports was about 6.3 billion. kr in 2017. Of these, weapons and ammunition were, well, 4.7 billion. kr, while other military equipment amounted to approximately 680 million. kr. In 2017, the total exports had a growth of 33 pst. As in the past, our allies in NATO are the largest beneficiary countries, together with Sweden and Finland. There are, as a rule, long-term contracts and different distributions of deliveries may result in the export value varying from year to year. In 2017, this has led to strong growth in exports to Poland and Oman in particular, while exports to etc. The United States, Canada, Germany and Australia have been somewhat reduced. The defence industry is important for Norway for several reasons. He provides readiness for deliveries to our own defense, which is very important in need of preparedness. He gives big export revenue to our country. But not least he is part of Norwegian high-tech industrial production, which also plays a major role in civil technology development. Many jobs and value creation from subcontractors in all countries are also very important to include. A joint committee wants the Norwegian defence industry to be able to operate export operations under long-term and far-sighted conditions. At the same time, the Committee believes it is important that Norway practises strict export control legislation and that the government is actively promoting high international control standards. There is great concern from a United Nations panel of experts about the humanitarian consequences of the Yemen conflict and about violations of humanitarian law. In 2018, the government suspended export licences for all defence equipment to the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia based on the situation in Yemen. Looking back at the situation in Yemen after March 2015, there is reason to argue that the government should have taken these decisions a long time ago. On 3 November 2018, the Norwegian National Human Rights Institute made a thorough written report, in which a traveler raises a number of serious questions in the Norwegian control code, against Norway's international obligations. In the interpretation of the UN Arms Trade Treaty, ATT, e.g. the government that Norway may export armaments to parties to civil wars supported by the legal regimes, but ATT points to all situations covered by international humanitarian law, in other words legal systems that do not take into account who is «right» in an armed conflict. The Central Party expects the Government of the Year to carefully evaluate the written recordings of the Norwegian National Institute for Human Rights and to follow up any proposals for regulatory changes or practice. We also expect the government to provide the gross domestic product during the second quarter, as the Storting has asked for earlier. Many of the words in this message are spoken. Most of the Committee's voting is also inconsistency, but there are some additional proposals. The central party is united with the Christian People's Party and SV behind two of them – two proposals that have also been put forward before – where, first of all, we ask the government to come back to the Stortingen with a case that ensures that ATT Articles 6 and 7 are included in the law or regulation, and a proposal that asks the government to work out the possibility of developing control mechanisms that allow enforcement of end-user declarations. Unfortunately, developments of an international nature show that these proposals have not been less relevant. With that, I will take up the proposals to which the Central Party is a co-sponsor.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-08.ana.ud356e432	The representative, Liv Signe Navarsete, has put forward the proposals to which the Central Party is advocating.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-08.ana.ud356e437	Our defence industry is of great importance. It is important for our preparedness and our own defence. This part of our industry contributes to research and technology that also benefits civil society. The defence industry also has significant ring-fences for other industrial production in Norway. A defence industry of its own is also crucial for our own defence and its strategic development. Our defence industry is needed to secure Norway and our allies a strong and high-tech defence. On this basis, the Workers' Party has supported the development of its own defence industry. So do we today. We need such an industry for the reasons I have mentioned here, but also to contribute to stability and control in the production and sale of weapons and weapons-related materials. In spite of this, it is of the utmost importance that a democratic country such as Norway should take responsibility on an independent basis for the democratic and humanist legitimacy of the defence industry. Norway has strict legislation on the sale and use of weapons produced in Norway, following a decision taken here in Stortinget. There is a broad consensus that this legislation has been adopted as it is and that it is strict, but that it is also necessary. The control of this legislation shall be strict. The size also requires a strict understanding of the ongoing practice of the legislation. We know that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is responsible for this. On this basis, it is absolutely necessary to ask questions here in the Storting whether the legislation has been broken or whether its intention is not respected as originally foreseen by the Stortinget. In this context, it is natural to refer to the brutal civil war in Yemen, which has been a central issue in the administration of Norwegian defence exports in recent years. The humanitarian situation in Yemen is still very serious. According to the UN Emergency Manager, Yemen is the most serious humanitarian crisis in the world. Three-quarters of the population need emergency assistance to survive. A Saudi-led coalition of Gulf States with the United Arab Emirates as the second largest military contributor has been militarily involved in the Yemen War since March 2015. Both in 2016, 2017 and 2018, reports from the panel of experts set up by the United Nations Security Council raised strong concerns about the humanitarian consequences of the Yemen conflict and about violations of humanitarian law. Nevertheless – and this is the serious thing – weapons and ammunition, i.e. A-material, were exported to the Emirates in 2017 to a value of 63 million. kr. In 2016, exports of A-material to the Emirates amounted to a total of 100 million. kr. To Saudi Arabia, other defence equipment, known as B-material, was exported in 2017 to a value of 41 million. kr. I say it this way: this shouldn't have happened. Of course, we have noticed that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, following a considerable political pressure, finally introduced an export stop – first to the Emirates in January 2018, then to Saudi Arabia in November 2018. But these two decisions were too late, as the rapporteur also said in his statement. Yes — the opening for exports of defence equipment to the Emirates took place in 2010, under the previous government. But the essential argument here is the war in Yemen. It started in March 2015. The current government has also been well aware of the Yemen report from the UN Security Council and its expert panel – serious concerns, as I have said, in 2016, 2017 and 2018. Therefore, this is not a matter of post-war clocks; this government knew more than enough to stop exports to the countries involved in the Yemen war much earlier. But it didn't. I will therefore characterise the government's handling of this matter as critical, and – perhaps the most important thing, I say it throughout the article – it places the consensus on the understanding of the legislation under considerable pressure. It is also the case that from a different point of view, this approach to dealing with this type of issue has a significant downside, namely the direct industrial policy side. While the Norwegian defence industry should be able to operate export activities based on predictable and long-term framework conditions, since March 2015 government practices for exports to countries involved in the Yemen war are unfortunately more marked by unforeseeable, uncertain and inconsistency. Green light, yellow light and red light have been issued – close to each other. For this reason, the government's policy of gnawing and wriggling in this matter has also been a poor business policy. Like the rapporteur, I would like to draw attention to another aspect of this, namely the fundamental issues of the application of the human rights law. The Storting’s own institution, Norway’s National Institute for Human Rights, has communicated to the Stortinget in its own opinion on these issues. In concrete terms, it is argued that the government’s interpretation of the legislation is problematic, given Norway’s obligations under international law. For example, in the interpretation of the United Nations Arms Trade Treaty, ATT, the government is permitted to export armaments to parties to civil wars that support legal authorities, but ATT refers to all situations covered by international humanitarian law, i.e. a legal system that does not take into account who has ‘right’ in an armed conflict. I noticed that the case rapporteur said she expected the government in the next big message, which we require will be presented already during the spring session, to enter into a thorough assessment of the written input from the Norwegian National Institute for Human Rights, including, where appropriate, proposals for concrete amendments to the export code and/or changes to its practice. It is important to be told in this debate that one thing is the letter of the law, another thing is, of course, the ongoing handling of the law by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It is absolutely necessary that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in its ongoing handling of these questions understand where the Stortinget sets the limit, and in this article I have given an example of where the legislation has been drawn very far, and I have expressed criticism of the government at this point. Finally, in this first article, I would like to comment on Norwegian exports of defence equipment to so-called authoritarian states. In my opinion, the existing legislation, not least the 1997 Great Britain’s clarification on the emphasis on democracy and human rights, states that weapons and ammunition cannot be exported to dictatorships – of course not. There is also a separate list of countries, the so-called country group 4, where Norway does not sell either A- or B-materials. But, in my opinion, it is problematic to make a simple two-thirds of the world's almost 200 countries in authoritarian and non-authoritarian countries. Therefore, the implementation of legislation cannot be carried out at the heading level. A more thorough assessment of individual countries and the type of licences that may be approved is necessary. However, when this is said, the Norwegian export legislation must also take into account that the country situation can change. Countries can evolve in an undemocratic direction. And when reality changes, we need to be able to adapt quickly the practice of our legislation so that the legislation does not break at this point, perhaps without actively wanting to do so, but we need to be vigilant, so that weapons do not go to dictatorship states, to undemocratic states, or to states where human rights are being suppressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-08.ana.ud356e468	As long as it is legitimate for a country to have a military defence, so long it will also be legitimate to produce weapons for that purpose. It is that weapons and munitions of war are not any commodity. Both production and exports shall be subject to and subject to a very strict regime. It is also an objective to ensure that we can have a viable Norwegian defence industry. It can provide security of supply to our own defence and also to the allies, and it assumes that the companies have the opportunity to export and are competitive. It is therefore satisfactory when it is an overall committee which emphasises the importance of our own defence industry in Norway, that it must be export-oriented and that it must be competitive internationally. Industry is high-tech and part of the value-added chain, which is significant far beyond this sector where weapons are produced. It also strengthens the Norwegian knowledge-based industry. That's all right. Then we have the opposing considerations, and it's just to make sure that these weapons, the war material or anything that is suitable for strengthening the military capabilities of a country, don't end up on the wrong hands and don't work against Norwegian interests or the interests of our allies. There is general agreement on the international guidelines, ATT under the UN, but also the EU has developed a strong and modernised regulatory framework in recent years. So it's not on the rule page it looks like it's missing. On the other hand, there could be an ongoing discussion of developments in special areas where exports have traditionally been made. The last time the Stortinget has dealt with this issue, the export of defence equipment to countries with military involvement in Yemen has been a repetition. We note that the government has temporarily withheld licences for the export of ammunition to the United Arab Emirates in 2016. In the light of the further escalation and development of a very serious and unintended humanitarian situation in the autumn of 2017, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs decided on the precautionary principle to suspend valid licences for the sale of so-called A-materials. It's very rare -- yes, it's actually the first time you've put out licenses. There has also been a recurring misunderstanding in the debate that we have sold weapons to Saudi Arabia. The export of weapons and ammunition to Saudi Arabia has not been permitted. So we can see that our practice is among the strictest in the circle of neighbouring countries. Recently, it has also become known that several other countries have decided to intensify or stop the export of weapons and military material to countries participating in the Saudi-led coalition in Yemen. On the other hand, there is no evidence that Norwegian-produced defence equipment has been used for military purposes in Yemen and, as we can understand, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has carried out the necessary investigations of these claims without finding any basis for them. There is therefore no evidence that Norwegian weapons have been diverted in this area of conflict. However, as a preventive measure, on 9 November 2018 the government decided not to issue new licences for the export of any defence material to this area. I do not agree with Mr Kolberg's description of the government's handling of the legislation. In my opinion, there is no reason to doubt that the government is ensuring that the export of Norwegian-produced defence equipment follows the strict legislation we want, and that thorough evaluations are made for the sale of weapons or ammunition from Norway. I also look forward to the fact that, in later messages, we may take a slightly broader view of how we in the Nordic countries and the European Union coordinate our practices in the field of arms export control. It is recognised that we need to act together also in an international and internationalised industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-08.ana.ud356e483	Unlike some of the others who have spoken, I will pay tribute to the defence industry. I'm going to try to say something about what the defence industry is doing, and not everything we want it not to do. I must say the opposite: the Norwegian defence industry is a success story. It's a technological adventure of dimensions that we should be very proud of. Defence companies have developed products and solutions that have made them world leaders in their areas. Think about it, bigotry representatives: the world's leading in its fields! And what we're trying to do here is tear things down. We were supposed to build them up – done as other major technology countries do, that is, build their technology businesses – not try to tear them down because we're going to appear as moral guardians. The development of defence technology has led to significant ring-fences for other Norwegian businesses and has led to the creation of many small and medium-sized enterprises. These may be partners or self-employed enterprises. The defence industry generates large revenues for the country, positive ring-effects, economic growth, high-tech jobs and industrial development — in other words, value creation. Maybe we in this room should focus a little bit more on value creation than on how to avoid value creation, and hoarded the industry, talked it up. Not least, the representative of Kolberg should speak as a representative of the Workers' Party, a party with an industrial background, and salute the industry, not say how to make it difficult and put chains in the wheels of industry. For example, the development and production of NASAMS by the Kongsberg Group, Norwegian Advanced Surface-to-Air Missile System, in cooperation with Raytheon, is estimated to provide 2,500 jobs in Norway. The acquisition of F-35 gives subcontracting to nine Norwegian companies. Further mention can be made of: Thales Norway, with 220 staff developing cryptotechnology Nammos production of rocket engines for AMRAAM missiles antennas and communication equipment produced by Comod in Rogaland The Norwegian defence industry has not achieved this in isolation but as active participants in international cooperation projects. Cooperation projects have created better and more equitable defence systems for all participating nations. But international material cooperation commits. The production of components and subsystems is often unique, so that all cooperating countries have to participate and contribute. Such cooperation builds trust. If one of the producing countries refused to supply components to systems due to political or other resistance to exports to an individual country, this would have consequences for the entire production chain. This means that alternative production lines must be established. Naturally, then, the country that rejects exports to an individual country will not be able to deliver components to systems delivered to other countries. This is for the Central Party and the question of the end-user declaration: it is not possible to introduce the end-user declaration as ambitious. It will be part of a system that will be exported. Enterprises then lose their ability to produce for export. International material cooperation leads to interdependence. It is important in a spirit of solidarity with NATO. This is precisely why the defence industry is an integral part of Norwegian defence and security policy. The development of F-35 is a good example of this. The same applies to Nammo's role as sole provider of engines for the AMRAAM missiles, which are used on all American-produced fighter aircraft. In the EU, the Commission is increasingly committed to cross-border development cooperation. This is done, among other things: using economic incentives through the European Defence Fund. The conclusion is that cooperation pays off. We have to have international cooperation in this area, because it is too expensive to develop own systems. We have to have component production, put together systems and then sell the systems together. So we can't cancel out, even if it would've been desirable for some people. Different depilations of socialists, whether they're red, green, or yellow, do what they can to pierce the wheels of the defense industry, and they always have a heaving crowd of publicly funded idealists on their feet. Every year, the new creative proposals aimed at making export legislation more restrictive, which will make the defence industry less competitive – as well this year, just like last year. This is politics at least seriously. Deliveries of defence systems require long-termity and predictability. For example, deliveries made in the current year may be based on contracts and contracts concluded several years ago. Take Oman as an example: the sale of air protection systems, NASAMS, to Oman is such an example, where the contract was signed in 2014. Marketing and sales started a few years earlier. No one protested that time. Oman is an example of how the table captures in international cooperation. It cannot be said, as the representative of Kolberg, that the industry must be prepared. No, the industry cannot be prepared for 15 years to come. The industry must be prepared for the supply of spare parts and the maintenance of the equipment supplied. It's the task of the industry. It does not have a task of being prepared for the end of the sale. It's not its mission. NASAMS is a very successful long-term collaboration between the Kongsberg Group and the American Raytheon. It would, of course, be absolutely destructive of this and future cooperation with Raytheon and the United States if Norway had withdrawn from NASAMS sales to Oman. What would happen then? Then it would have been unimaginable that the American Navy had chosen NSM, Naval Strike Missiles, to its surface vessels, and then we had not been able to produce NSM, because it had become too expensive, because we had not had customers. Then we had not been able to produce them, and then we had lost jobs and high technology. It is also good to make representatives aware that Oman will operate NASAMS for 20-25 years to come, as I mentioned before, and it requires continuous deliveries of spare parts, repairs and upgrades from Norway. The export control code works as intended. Temporary stoppage in the sale of B-material to Saudi Arabia and A-material to the United Arab Emirates are good examples of this. In both cases, there were concrete, serious events that triggered the need to pause until the situation became more transparent. Stopping the sale of different types of defence equipment is a strong political signal that can have significant foreign and security policy implications, perhaps even in areas that are least expected to do so. It is therefore wise to breathe with your nose and not promote populist proposals in the Grand Duchy, as is being done today, which aim only to satisfy a hinterland of sympathizers who have very few prerequisites for seeing the whole defence industry and the export industry in a larger and wider context, including defence policy and security policy. It's very easy to tear down, but it takes a long time to build up.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-08.ana.ud356e519	Norway needs – and must have – a defence industry. It makes us less dependent on other countries. It is an important prerequisite for what is SV's objective: strong national defence. In order to have a defence industry, exports are also necessary. This does not mean that Norway can export arms or armaments to anyone. For example, it should be easy for the Stortinget to agree that Norwegian war equipment should not be exported to Islamic dictatorships. It is reassuring that we are once again in a situation where a wide range of proposals that could have done something about an export that is not economically crucial for the Norwegian defence industry, but which should be a major political burden for Norway, are not only downgraded – over and over again – but are voted down by an overwhelming majority of people on the Grand Duchy. We are experiencing the disaster in Yemen – a man-made disaster with enormous suffering as a result, driven by a coalition led by Saudi Arabia, with a number of Islamic dictatorships, directly or indirectly supported by the Americans. Norway has sold war equipment to countries in the Saudi-led coalition. SV has again and again asked to stop this. After a while, the government has met us for a while, but there are still many questions, for example. related to exports on existing licences to both the Emirates and Saudi Arabia. Germany has, for example: – and this is all about the fact that we have the strictest legislation in the world, in its right perspective – stopped all exports, including on existing licences and contracts. We don't get a response from the government on how much exports are going on, and the government won't even publish why. It goes into the pattern of embarrassing inertia and silence that characterizes this government in encounter with Saudi Arabia and other Islamic dictatorships. It's strange, because it's the right side of Norwegian politics that usually talks loudest about this with Islamism, but the representative Tybring-Gjedde obviously has no problem selling war equipment to Islamist regimes. It's a very special paradox. Save Barna's country director for Yemen has been out today and called Norwegian exports of war equipment to the countries that are waging war in Yemen, for a shame, and I think that message from someone who really knows the reality of Yemen today should make an impression on the Storting. I am pleased that the Workers' Party is critical of the government's handling of exports to the Emirates and Saudi Arabia, but I must at the same time point out that in this setting, the Labour Party does not support a single proposal which can strengthen the interpretation of existing legislation or improve it. There is little use in speaking out loud about this if we are not also willing to vote for action. It is therefore possible to vote in favour of SV’s proposal to stop all exports to countries where military services are systematically in use to suppress the population. It does not stand in the way of discretionary assessments of which countries fall into such a category, but we obviously need to strengthen the principles of the Norwegian legislation. And if you think the legislation is good enough, you can also vote in favour of SV's proposal to tighten up the interpretation. But we also seem to be standing alone on that proposal. Today, we should put a sentence on the idea that dictatorships in the Middle East are to be a growing export market for the Norwegian arms industry. We should ensure that the legislation we have, which is strict in many areas, is clearly interpreted in line with this. And in connection with it, the government should be much clearer – it's just to look at the matter that's going on on the VG now, about the brutal repression in Saudi Arabia – in its announcement of what Norway thinks about these regimes, even though the government's best friends in Washington continue to hold their protective hand over them. With that I will do something very important, namely to include SV's suggestions in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-08.ana.ud356e540	The representative Audun Lighthouse has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-08.ana.ud356e545	I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for Foreign Affairs for clarifying in November that Norway will not allow new sales of defence equipment to Saudi Arabia. It's obviously a very important and correct step. I think it means a lot to a lot of Norwegians to know that in this situation we are not exporting war material to Saudi Arabia. Unfortunately, it does not already apply to licences issued, and the sale should, I believe, have been stopped a long time ago. The war in Yemen has been going on for four years – four years! The UN calls the situation in Yemen the greatest humanitarian disaster of our time. Every ten minutes, a child dies in Yemen. Tens of thousands of civilians have already been killed, and millions are fleeing as a result of war, drought and a long-lasting blockade. We can't ignore it, even if it hurts to look at it, and especially when we're part of the problem. For during this period, Norway has made millions of dollars in sales of equipment for war to the countries involved. In 2017, Norway sold arms and military materials for 187 million. to the countries of the coalition. The ones we exported the most to were the Emirates, $76 million. kr, and Kuwait, $66 million. kr. The earnings of Norway have been high throughout the civil war, and they were highest in 2016. We should not allow us to sell weapons and ammunition to areas where there is war threatening, or to countries where there is civil war. But yet we still sell war materials to countries involved in the conflict in Yemen. As we know, last winter international media showed pictures and films of Norwegian weapons, as they say, have appeared off the coast of Yemen. That we cannot reject the fact that Norwegian weapons have been used in the conflict in Yemen, I believe is very serious. I can't defend it against the people themselves. Yemen updates the issue of Norwegian arms exports and its control. We obviously need a stricter regulation, a better follow-up of the legislation that exists, and much more transparency in the export of Norwegian military materials. Yemen is just one of several examples. The Green Party has long said that all exports to authoritarian regimes should cease. Ideally, we should sell military material only to our allies and demand an end-user statement from them, so that we know where the equipment ends, and we should demand guarantees that the war material is not used for attack outside our own territory. In this context, the export notification should also include a justification for the acceptance of an application and it should be submitted in the spring of the year following exportation and not as late as now. It is an important step that the government closed the sale of arms to the Emirates in December 2017 and of military material to Saudi Arabia last November. But it's hard to understand why it couldn't happen before. We should not export weapons, ammunition or any other military material to the countries involved as long as the war rages in Yemen. I have seen that SV has submitted a proposal for a representative to address it, and we are going to follow it carefully. We hope for a thorough and rapid treatment of Norway’s ability to sell material to the countries involved in the coalition. The Greens will vote in favour of all the minority proposals in the case today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-08.ana.ud356e563	Today, Redd Barna's country director is Yemen, Norway. He has a prayer from the civilian population of Yemen, namely to stop exporting Norwegian war material to Islamic regimes that kill and defuse the children of Yemen, women and men. As we speak today, cities, schools, hospitals, homes and markets are bombed, while the introduction of vital food and medicine is blocked. Several of the Islamic regimes that kill Yemen's civilians in thousands are armed with Norwegian munitions of war that the present government has authorized to export. On the Stortinges agenda, the theme of today's debate is Innst. 81 S on exports of defence equipment from Norway in 2017, export control and international non-proliferation cooperation. What we're really discussing is whether Norway is going to sell war materials to Islamist regimes that are now killing innocents on their feet in Yemen. What we are considering today is whether we are listening to the prayer of Redd Barna that Norway should stop contributing material to this war, or whether we should ignore the Redd Barna and rather give in to the desire that the Norwegian arms industry should make money in the warfare of these regimes against civilians. It is absolutely right that the government stopped the export of so-called A-material to the Emirates in 2017 and B-material to Saudi Arabia in 2018, but it was after the government had taken to say that it is okay to export war material to these regimes. What we now demand is resolute and clear action, and Red supports the proposals for mitigation from the opposition in the setting. In addition, we are promoting three proposals that can help to restore common sense and democratic control over Norwegian exports of war materials. The first proposal is to ask the government to clarify the understanding of the concepts of ‘war’ or ‘citizen war’ in the government’s 1959 Decision should be amended to prevent sales to countries participating in armed conflicts with major civil disorders. It was a unanimous outburst that endorsed the 1959 decision that Norway did not sell military material to land where there is war or war, or to land where there is civil war. In effect, the sitting government has broken the decision when one has sold military material to regimes that are warring in Yemen. On page 16 of the last arms export control message, the government writes: ‘Praksis has been that States which intervene, with the consent of the legal authorities of a country, are not subject to the 1959 Decision.’ The consequence of such an interpretation is that Norway will not refuse the sale of war material to States participating in civil wars against armed groups in its own country. Therefore, it is now appropriate for the Grand Duchy to decide that this should be investigated more thoroughly. Our other proposal is to consider the distinction between product categories A and B in the U.D. guidelines for the export of war material should be amended, because there is simply no evidence of the argument that exports of military material of the B-category are not used to affect civilians. The last proposal is to ask the government to actively exercise ownership of the arms company Nammo to shut down Nammo's export office in the Emirates, which is involved in the war against Yemen. Norway has a government statement with Storting's agreement that we should not sell military material to countries where there is war or civil war, so what is the point of a company where the Norwegian state is a majority victory – that they should have an export office in an Islamic regime that participates in one of the world's worst warriors? Red is not against Norwegian weapon production, but we are against the government's policy on arms export that contributes to war crimes and humanitarian disasters, making Norwegian weapons producers and jobs dependent on exports to the world's most brutal Islamist regimes – and depending on that they continue to war and buy Norwegian war material to ensure their continued existence. With this I take up Red's three suggestions in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-08.ana.ud356e596	Then the representative Björn Moxnes has taken up the three proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-08.ana.ud356e601	First of all, I would like to agree with everyone who has stated – and that is also a unanimous committee position that makes – that the defence industry is important to Norway. It is important for our preparedness, it is important for the development of high technology, it provides significant jobs, and not least it also has a high transfer value for the civil sector, which is important for Norwegian innovation. The government is endeavouring to present the issue to the Stortinget early and therefore presented it by the second quarter of 2018, and it is now being debated. It has been submitted annually since 1996, and Norway practices a significant degree of transparency on this issue. As the Committee has noted, the export value has increased from 2016 to 2017, which is the year of the wholesale notification. It has two main reasons in particular. One is, as many people have said, that some long-term deliveries over several years have large deliveries in 2017, particularly in Oman and Poland. The second is that there has been an adoration of this type of material, which makes the value increase. 25 licence applications have been refused in 2017. Both the defence industry and export control are an integral part of Norwegian defence and security policy. We have comprehensive and rigorous control legislation, and that should be the case. I would also like to remind you that creating predictability for the defence industry, which I think we are all concerned with in this Chamber, means that we have practiced this legislation equally through alternating governments, over very many decades. The major changes that have taken place were not until the 1959 decision, then the 1997 clarification, which concerned in particular human rights, and not least the clarification that this government made in 2014 in the case of B-material. It's a clarification that I didn't realize there was a disagreement around. There was an explicit tightening of the B-material guideline, which makes it clear that a licence can be refused if there is a manifest danger that the military technology or equipment to be exported may be used for internal repression. In the past, the rule was that licences for B-materials should be granted when there is evidence to support end-users. So it's a contraction. The government has also made two assessments in my time as Minister for Foreign Affairs, namely to suspend already granted licences for A-materials to the United Arab Emirates, and the second is not to grant new B-licenses to Saudi Arabia. There are obviously some misunderstandings, which I think it's important that we clear up in this room. Norway has never allowed the sale of weapons and ammunition, known as A-material, to Saudi Arabia. It is an important premise for the debate, because when you hear the debate, it may seem as if the opposite is the case. The second is, and I also think it is important to stress: we have no points of view to say that Norwegian-produced material has been used in the war in Yemen. Here I see it for a while – not primarily in this room, but elsewhere – a direct connection is made between a previous export and that the equipment is to be used in Yemen. It is an organisation that has claimed that there was a smaller amount of Norwegian material in Yemen. It has passed the Norwegian U.D. We found those claims serious. What we've done is we've been using the international system, we've been using our UN delegations in Geneva and New York, and we've also had meetings with that organization that hasn't been able to provide evidence. So we can't verify this. I think that's an important point in the context. In the UN reports referred to, which show the atrocities of the war in Yemen, which I do not believe anyone is in any way inferior, Norway is therefore not mentioned. We're in a situation where we practice strict regulation. It's been done over decades, and we make decisions of course when we see that conditions change. We've done that by suspending licenses, and we've also done that by not issuing new B licenses. If we had not done this, we would not have followed the legislation. That is why I disagree with Mr Kolberg, who believes that this creates an unnecessary unforeseeable industry. The industry is well aware that they have to live with as long as they export, among other things. in areas of this type.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-08.ana.ud356e618	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-08.ana.ud356e623	There is no reason to doubt that the Minister of Foreign Affairs, like this whole great hall, agrees that the situation in Yemen is a terrible tragedy – humanitarian, human, social and democratic. We're still that. And in her posts now she is clearly very sure that Norwegian material has not been used. She's as sure as she can. However, it is not that we can be absolutely sure that this is the situation, given that we have actually exported so much material over time. I would like the Minister of Foreign Affairs to comment on the following: Is the Norwegian understanding of the law and the practice of what the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has done in these contexts, within the meaning of Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-08.ana.ud356e628	At first, I think it's important to stress, as I just said from the pulpit, that we've done the research we can. We have asked for documentation, we have used the international system, and no one has been able to verify this. Nor does the UN mention Norway in its reports, on which the representative of Kolberg was involved. That doesn't mean I'm standing here issuing guarantees. I would never think of doing that. I don't think the representative of Kolberg would have done that either if he were the Council of State. But we've done the research we can, and we've been asking for the documentation that this organization claimed to have. I believe that our practice of the legislation, the strict, clear and predictable practice of the legislation that takes into account the occasional suspension of licences, non-licensing or other measures, is fully in line with the 1959 decision, it is in line with the 1997 press release, it is in line with the tightening up that came in 2014, and it has thus been practiced in a similar way through alternating governments and several decades. That is what creates the necessary predictability for industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-08.ana.ud356e635	I'm following up on the extension of this reasoning, which we might be able to elaborate a little bit more from the other pulpit a little bit later. Then why does the government not stop the B-material to the Emirates when we see the situation we now have? Because it's not done.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-08.ana.ud356e640	As many people have been involved, the government chose to suspend A licences in December 2017, and we also raised the threshold for the granting of B licences and multi-use equipment for military use. It was based on a pre-were-consideration, in exactly the same way that we have now done by not granting new B-licenses to Saudi Arabia. As I said, we have no indications that material was to be used in the war in Yemen, but we still want to be the leader, because one of the assessment criteria we have is the risk of secondary use in Yemen. That's why we've made the assessment that the licenses we're talking about here, we've raised the threshold to grant, and that's what this is all about. on safety assessments. It's also about what kind of material we're talking about, and it's a line that I'm experiencing that neither has encountered resistance in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-08.ana.ud356e645	I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for clearing up a bit of the debate towards the end, which has been necessary. But there is also a need to have predictability when it comes to interpreting legislation and laws. One example is that in the interpretation of the UN Arms Trade Treaty, the government assumes that it is possible to distinguish between parties in civil war. But the treaty doesn't. There's only one example of why I think there's a need to clear up the interpretative basis to clarify how to deal with these treaties, so that you can give predictability in the way the government handles it. The Workers' Party has in its observations on the matter provided that the Government comes to Stortinget through the Annual Storing Notice where they go through the written recordings from NIM, which in this case have been particularly concerned about the basis of international law. My question is, will the Council of State do that?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-08.ana.ud356e650	Of course, we've read the recording from NIM thoroughly. I think there might be some misunderstandings, because as the recording from NIM is read, it can be interpreted there that the government has an interpretation that says that if you are within the 1959 decision, you can ignore the ATT. Of course we can't. ATT is a legally binding agreement to which Norway has acceded. It binds Norway, our legislation and our interpretation. We agree with what NIM says that there is no distinction between different forms of conflict. The only point is that we both make individual assessments for each licence application that comes through the 1959 decision, which has been the basis of the Stortinge for many decades. The way to interpret it has also been done for a long time, since the ratification of the ATT for Norway. I would also like to stress that from our side we would like to mention this in the next export control message if it contributes to greater clarity about the practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-08.ana.ud356e655	Norwegian arms exports are important. Norwegian weapons production is important. Nevertheless, there are many dilemmas associated with it. Only today, the Council of State claims that we are sure that Norwegian weapons have not been used in Yemen, while one in the media and from representatives in this room hears about the opposite. Would it not be better for Norway to draw up an end-user declaration, and for them to be obliged to arm themselves so that these weapons do not stray and be used by countries that are in violation of human rights and are at war with other countries? Why is the Council of State and the government opposed to doing such a job?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-08.ana.ud356e661	Here's two obvious errors. First of all, it's not right that the representative Navarsete says that I've said that we're sure. On the contrary, I have said that we have done all the research we can. There has been no one who has been able to provide documentation, nor the organisation that claimed that a smaller amount of Norwegian material has been found in Yemen. We've also used international channels to clarify this. No one has been able to prove it, nor has the UN mentioned Norway in its reports. Nor is Norway opposed to an end-user statement. The guidelines are very clear that end-user documentation is always required. It's important because we want to have clarity about who uses the material, and the assurances from the authorities we work with and export to, that that's the case. We also work internationally to make use of the retail declaration in other contexts. It has not yet been possible to reach an agreement, but it is a work that this government has done, and so did the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-08.ana.ud356e668	In any case, it is necessary to clean up the manipulation, because in handling this matter we have received a lot of input from many organisations, and we can read online, on NRKytring, etc., many reading posts where this is a theme, that Norway does not have an adequate end-user statement. Can the Council of State do something for what is the difference between what it says and what many organizations, such as Changemaker and many others, claim that Norway should develop? As I see it, the Council of State says that Norway has a satisfactory declaration of end-user satisfaction. Those who were listening, and those who have made recordings to us, claim the opposite. Then it's okay to know, what's in that difference?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-08.ana.ud356e673	I can only deal with the legislation as it is, and as it is practiced, and so do not decide what others may have said at the hearing. But there are clear rules in the guidelines that require end-user documentation. It is always required in defence equipment sports. Then we also have two different country groups within those who can receive exports of A-materials, i.e. weapons and ammunition. Of the countries outside the related circuit, the NATO circuit, a clause against re-exports is also always required. This is an important point in this context, simply because re-exports are also part of the export of defence equipment that we naturally have in mind. Therefore, according to the rules – as they are practiced, and as they were practiced even when Navarsete was in government – this is the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-08.ana.ud356e678	There is now a report on the treatment of women’s activists in prison by Saudi authorities on the VG front page. Together with the Yemen war, which we've been talking about in this debate, it shows what kind of horror regime we're dealing with. That is why it is good, and it was an important step, that the government stopped the conclusion of new licences for the export of B-materials – war equipment – to Saudi Arabia. However, we have not received an answer as to how much exports can be made on existing licences. I would like to ask the Foreign Minister first whether it is possible to provide the Storting with new information about it now, and second, about the government in the light of the ever-worsening reports that come about this Islamic horror regime's treatment of both the civilian population in Yemen and its own inhabitants, will – as Germany – consider halting all exports also on existing licences.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-08.ana.ud356e683	As I've been through a couple of times, it's important to stress that we're in a completely different situation than very many of our neighbouring countries that have been exporting both weapons and ammunition to Saudi Arabia for a long time. Norway has never done that. The decision we made not to consider new B-licenses, and not to suspend the few B-licenses that existed, was based on it. They had very low value, and they were very few. They did not represent a risk of use contrary to the guidelines. There were spare parts for radio and communication equipment. As of January of this year – that is, as of now – that licence is no longer valid. The other, which concerned the repair of some cables for observation items, was, in our opinion, assessed there that there is neither a risk of secondary use in Yemen nor anything that would indicate that one could not do the one repair. In fact, it is also about predictability for the companies involved in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-08.ana.ud356e688	My question is about transparency and the ability of the Storting to debate arms export policy. I believe that this debate shows very clearly that we are getting a very delayed debate when the notification comes over a year after the export has taken place. Today, we were supposed to be debating the 2017 exports. The challenge is – of course – that the world is changing very quickly. Then we also know that Stortinget has asked several times through the request decision that the message be delivered earlier. My question is, why not, if the Council of State can inform a little more about what it is that limits the government from being able to deliver that message much earlier next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-08.ana.ud356e693	These are just the 2017 numbers we are discussing today, based on the news of big business that is now available. It was delivered much earlier than usual – it was delivered in June 2018. The reason why it can't come much earlier is simply the quality assurance of the numbers. All defence industries are required to report quarterly on the actual exports carried out. That means that as of today, the most recent figures we have are, as of 30 September 2018, because they are reported quarterly, and we have to do quality assurance of those figures before we submit a notification to the Stortinget. When we delivered it in June 2018, it was much earlier than the previous one. But it's probably also some of the fastest we can do, precisely because it's gradually reporting, and we need to ensure quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-08.ana.ud356e698	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-08.ana.ud356e705	I want to make some comments to SV's representative, Lysbakken. The first thing he said was that he wanted to have a defense industry, and he wanted to export. That's the first thing he said, then we had it in place. Then came all of these things that made it almost impossible to export, or I would say completely impossible to export. In proposal No 7, from SV, it says: ‘The Government is asking that requirements for end-user documentation become practice in all exports of defence equipment, including to NATO countries and close allies.’ I mean, it's always supposed to be the end-user statement. What happens when you have component production of defence equipment? There is an advanced technology, an advanced production and an advanced component that is part of a larger defence system, mostly American, with which the Norwegian defence industry cooperates. If America makes up maybe 70-80 pst. by this defence system, does it mean that Norway should ask the United States – Raytheon or Lockheed or who it should be – that they should not export it to countries that Norway does not like? Of course you might think so, but then there will be no sale. It's an impossibility. It will be the US export legislation in force. If absolutely all countries produce roughly the same, we could have an international export code. You can work for that, and there are probably a lot of people in the United Nations who want to start this project, but it doesn't exist. But if we, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs too, are talking about re-exports, namely whole systems or whole weapons or things that work autonomously, then an end-user statement is of course necessary. If we export a system – which we do to a very small extent – to another country, we can, of course, ask that this not be re-exported to another country we do not want to export to. It's just such an opinion about what the end-user statement is, instead of having the same debate every year in this room. I would like to have an answer to: Is this how, as Lightbaken says, you should tell Raytheon, Lockheed Martin or Northrop Grumman or who it should be, that they can't export to countries that the U.S. export code allows? If we then say that then we cannot export, we also lose that contract and the opportunity to produce in Norway. How are we supposed to export? That's an interesting question. How expensive is it then to produce? Are we going to produce for our own defense, when we might need three units of something, five units of something else and ten units of something else? It's going to be insanely expensive. We can't afford it, it's not possible, because defence systems today are so advanced, technologically advanced, and so expensive that it's not possible. It requires cooperation and therefore no end-user declaration is possible on component production. It's simply not possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-08.ana.ud356e719	Well, my whole post was about why it should be impossible to export Norwegian war equipment to dictatorships. It even states in the existing legislation that it will not happen, but it does, because of the way it is interpreted. The most amazing thing about these debates, I think, is that the Progress Party, which is the party which in the Norwegian domestic debate is the most high-lying in its criticism of authoritarian Islamism and Islamic dictatorships, is the party which in this Chamber is most opposed to any action that can ensure that Norway does not export war equipment to just such regimes. That's very strange. So it is SV that is consistent in the attitude towards this type of dictatorship, and that wants Norway to show a clear view of Saudi Arabia, of the Emirates, of other dictatorships that Christian Tybring-Gjedde in other contexts says he is against, but to which he will therefore defend the export of war equipment. It's a big paradox. I asked for the floor for a brief explanation of vote. There are three loose proposals from the Red Group. This review of the A and B categories has already been proposed by SV. That is a wise suggestion. We shall vote in favour of that. We also believe that the first study proposal is wise, so we will vote in favour of the three proposals that Red has put forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-08.ana.ud356e733	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-08.ana.ud356e751	As the President explained, we are an export world champion in fishery products. But there are paradoxes in it. Once you've traveled a lot, and you see that Norwegian fish in both the close and the distant abroad are a brand that stands very strong, and that we with it past the boundaries of domestic production, it's natural to travel such an interpellant debate that I'm doing here today, because I think that through this we also have to see what's in the future space of opportunity. For example, how can an export market for Norwegian agricultural products – as we see it as a major success in maritime food – be applied to both Norwegian sheep and other parts of agricultural production, and be made in line with what we see for Norwegian salmon? I think that's a relevant question when we get there in many ways we're now. When we wind up export aid for, among other things, Jarlsberg cheese, we need some new grip to move on. That is why I want to ask the Minister of Agriculture these questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-08.ana.ud356e756	Norwegian agricultural production and policies have been largely geared towards the domestic market. For milk and meat, the aim has been to ensure that Norwegian production meets domestic needs as much as possible. The same applies to cereals and the green sector. At the same time, there have also been exports of agricultural products for which there has been a commercial basis, for example: by Norwegian Jarlsberg, there 7-8 pst. Norwegian milk production has been used for export. In the case of meat, however, exports have had more nature of regulatory export in order to resolve a temporary surplus in the Norwegian market. In recent years, we have seen increased optimism and a lot of investment in agriculture. Developments have led to a rapid increase in production, especially in the meat sector. For bovine animals, where there have been significant additional imports into Norwegian production over the years, it is expected that increased Norwegian production will gradually cover national consumption. Although the arrows are pointing up to Norwegian agriculture and the food industry, the development also poses significant challenges in the market for some productions. For pigs and sheep there is now a surplus in the Norwegian market. In the past, Norwegian agriculture has been able to regulate surplus production through exports. Following the WTO Ministerial Decision in Nairobi in 2015, Norway will no longer be able to provide export support for agricultural products. Export aid shall be phased out by the end of 2020. This will have an impact, in particular, on cheese exports, but also on exports of processed agricultural products, butter and pigmeat. The challenges associated with the disposal of growing Norwegian agricultural production are now affecting the sector. Recent market balancing measures have been introduced, primarily in the meat and milk sectors. These are important and necessary measures, but in a longer-term perspective, competitiveness in the sector and the development and integration of new markets will be very important. Competitiveness is necessary to strengthen the position of enterprises in the Norwegian market, but also in the light of new markets. I believe that the sector needs to think more internationally than before in order to take advantage of the opportunities offered by the export market, which can contribute positively to the economy in the industry. That the value of exports of agricultural products has increased by 80 pst. Since 2010, and now it's 10 billion. kr, is thus positive. And here the industry has to think wide, new and untraditionally. Because when we look at today's exports of Norwegian agricultural products, it is not dominated by what we associate with basic agricultural products. Today’s exports are dominated by food supplements, animal feed for the fish industry, hides and skins, beverages such as acevit and water, chocolate or soya products exported after further processing of imported soya beans. Such further processing also contributes to the strengthening of the economy by exploiting capacity and competence. A number of the agricultural products we export are entirely or partly based on imported raw materials – because Norwegian agriculture and the food industry are part of global value chains. Of the goods we traditionally associate more with Norwegian agriculture, many Jarlsberg cheeses are known as an important export product, but there is also a wide range of other products on the list. A company in Sigdal exports cracked bread to large parts of Europe. A company in Skien exports muffins and cookies to Europe and Asia. In 2017, pet food was exported to a value of 180 million. kr, e.g. through a duty-free export quota we have negotiated with the EU. Geno exports breeding material to a number of countries around the world. Yara is today the world’s largest producer of mineral fertilisers with establishments in more than 50 countries and sales to more than 150 countries. In order for exports to be relevant for agricultural activities, they must have sufficient capacity, competence and capital and the willingness to work in the long term. Innovation Norway manages several risk-absorbing instruments and instruments related to advice and product development to promote industry development and innovation in the sector. I believe that the overall instruments that we have made available are an important contribution to equip agricultural businesses for possible exports. With offices in major international markets and in all regions of the country, Innovation Norway can assist companies with international ambitions. This government has focused on agricultural economic development. The AGM indicates the direction and ambitions for the further development of the area. We have also followed this up by increasing the allocation of the Development Programme for Agricultural and Reforestation-based Growth and Valuation. Within the local food area, we have a very positive development to point to. Enterprises are growing, becoming more professional and are good at exploiting the competitive advantages of Norwegian agriculture in the branding of their products. I am convinced that several local food and drink companies have the potential to export their products to an international market. Norwegian exports also often meet customs duties to other countries. In trade negotiations, we seek to improve market access for products where we have the potential for export. For example, our exports of food supplements to the EU take place within quotas Norway has negotiated in trade agreements. Prior to such negotiations, the Ministry has close contact with the industry to identify the export interests. Similarly, sanitary and phytosanitary legislation can be a challenge for exports to some countries. Norwegian authorities are systematically working in trade negotiations to avoid this becoming an obstacle to exports. Then it is not up to me as the Council of State to point out which exact products can become an important export product. But we have several good examples of companies that have partly succeeded with the tools we have provided. Examples show both the development of new products, including exports, and technological innovations in the production process itself. Moer Farm in Ås is a major producer of eggs for human consumption, grain production and forestry — as well as antibody production in hens. In cooperation with a veterinarian and a researcher, the farm has established the Norwegian Antibodies AS biotechnology company that manufactures antibodies from the egg yolk to the hens. The company operates in an international market where individual deliveries are tailored to orders from customers as well as in China and the United States. Norwegian world-class animal health, competence and technology have been an important competitive advantage. The initiative shows that traditional agricultural activities combined with research-driven activities and not least good ideas can give rise to new industrial activities that have also been requested in an international market. Back to export of broken bread: This is, among other things, a result of the project Open Innovation in Norwegian Cereal from 2012, headed by Nofima and supported by the Research Fee Fund. Before the project, there was in practice no production of broken bread on an industrial scale in Norway. Now we're exporting 135 million. DKK to 19 countries. I would also like to point out that the value chain of agriculture from primary production to final products constitutes a valuable platform for the development of other export-oriented industries. I would particularly like to highlight the development of technologies related to agriculture. Enterprises such as Nofence, Soil Steam International and 7sense Group are enterprises that have developed technology based on Norwegian agriculture and Norwegian conditions, which are now receiving considerable international attention. The representative of Skjelstad draws on salmon exports as an example for other industries. There is much to learn from this success, including for the agricultural industry. At the same time, the starting point and the natural conditions for agriculture are far different from the fishing industry. Wage exports of agricultural products will therefore have to be reserved for products where we have special quality preferences, or where we have competence or technology that adds value to the products. That we have such products, there's no doubt about it, it shows the examples I've already drawn out. The fact that Norway has won gold in the World Championship in cheese twice, in 2016 with Kraftkar and in 2018 with Fanaosten, that we can export fenal years to France and beer to Germany, also makes it clear that we can produce world-class products. In order for exports to be relevant for businesses, we need to be good at finding the right niches, and we need to be good at innovation. Enterprises must also have sufficient capacity, competence, capital and willingness to cooperate and work in the long term, often over many years, before exports will throw something off their mark. I have great faith that exports of the right agricultural products could be a positive and necessary contribution for future agriculture in Norway – at a time when the world is becoming ever smaller, and where we also have to expect increased competitive pressure on the agricultural sector from the outside world.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-08.ana.ud356e796	I would like to thank the Minister of Agriculture and Food for the contribution. I believe that the Council of State is in favour of the topic being addressed, and that the attitude is that there is the potential to increase Norwegian exports of agricultural products. I think that is a good and a good answer – where I believe that the Council of State could also have been a little more concrete. A Minister for Agriculture and Food has significant instruments, not least those negotiated in the annual agricultural operations with the industry. I understand – and I agree – that traditional export subsidies that have been an important part of Norwegian agriculture are disappearing. I believe, however, that it is possible to look at schemes that, overall, can be beneficial also for producers who want to see beyond the borders of Norway. I believe that the attitude and attitude of the industry can also affect whether you succeed or not. My appeal, therefore, is that the issue of exports be raised into discussions and discussions with the industry by the Council of State, so that one can build a common understanding of the potential of Norwegian agricultural products in a global context. Governments mention quality products like the world's best cheese, Kraftkar. This is good, but as I see it, such products are also the result of a quality chain, an animal health and welfare that is unique in the world context. I am convinced that qualities and systems developed over generations in Norway are also something that consumers in a world market can literally appreciate. Norway has made large investments in quality systems for agricultural production. We should be able to benefit from this in a global context. In this way, Geno is a good example. Geno’s export of breeding material is an exciting example, which the Council of State also mentions in its article. The Norwegian import protection system should remain in place. We should try to compete in those arenas where the different quality aspects of the products are emphasised in addition to price. I think there is a potential in the interaction between travel, culture and the sale of agricultural products from Norway. Travel life is an important future industry in Norway. We have to expect that foreign visitors who become familiar with Norwegian quality food will also want to enjoy such products in their home countries and to familiarize their acquaintances with them. Culture will in this way be an inspirational source both for Norwegian producers and, in particular, for those abroad who want it. I therefore believe that the Norwegian authorities and agricultural producers must dry up their thinking. We can – and I think we can succeed internationally too. It shows not least what we have had of success in maritime food – as I have also mentioned in the interpellation – that has shown the way. I believe that the Norwegian quality of Norwegian agricultural products is also an opportunity. That is why we must now encourage agriculture to throw gloves too.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-08.ana.ud356e813	I am very pleased that the representative is raising this issue. I'm happy to hear a number of committee members comment on what you think about this issue, because I definitely see that there are great opportunities. Norwegian companies are doing well. Some of them have chosen to look at it from the niche and what to produce. It's e.g. Interestingly, a relatively small but exciting and forward-looking company such as Rørosmeieriet, which exports cheese to Singapore to a good extent, shows that there are opportunities and potential — or the company Tind on Sunnmaere, which produces fenal years and sells to France. They're taking $120 to $130 for a pack of 60 grams of phenal years. It shows that finding the right niches and doing the right things are possible. Then I would like to say that I know that the trip to phenal years in Norway has not just been right ahead. Of course, you have had challenges, but with a long-term and laborious work you have shown that you have managed to do it. And as both I and the representative Skkelstad were in, Geno is an example of breeding products that are exported in large quantities because of the good qualities of Norwegian cattle. It shows that there are tremendous potentials and possibilities. So there's no doubt that if you want to, and if you want it enough, you can really get it done. In 2005, a strategy was developed. It has been followed up by Innovation Norway to look at markets where there may be room and opportunities for more exports of Norwegian agricultural products. So there are possibilities there. We also have the Innovation Norway device, from which it is possible to get help if you think about and want to look at the possibilities of exporting. The next week is the IGW, the International Green Week, which everyone here knows is great in terms of profiling Norwegian agriculture and Norwegian food, which is important, which is very good, and which provides opportunities. This is part of the investment we have had for many years, which is also important for Norwegian agriculture and food products. So this is exciting. I am happy to hear the debate further, and I am given the opportunity to come back again.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-08.ana.ud356e826	This debate is not primarily about niche products or some small niche producers around the country who have found a fantastic product that is likely to offer a larger market than the Norwegian market. It's not about our ability to trade with the rest of the world either. It's about the very device of Norwegian food production. That's what the inter-pellant is talking about, which the Minister of Agriculture is quietly ignoring, and I think that is really quite alarming. The interpellant takes into account its interpellance is the following: overproduction in a number of areas, making exports a natural part of the solution. That is the starting point for the interpellation, but it does not correspond to the Minister of Agriculture. He chooses smoothly to ignore it. But I assume that with the party background that the Council of State has, he is too large an export of Norwegian food production as long as it takes place in Norway. But this might be the first step on the way to the fact that the ability we have to produce food is being moved out of the country – not just the products, but the whole machine of production. That's what's the danger, and that's what the Minister of Agriculture doesn't have one sentence toucher, and in such a kind of debate, I think it's demanding that he's not on that topic at all. What happens to the domestic market? What happens when it comes to customs protection? The import protection provided by Skelstad is to be maintained: is it possible to maintain it if we are to design food production in such a way that we facilitate an increased level of export? I'm just asking the Minister of Agriculture, and he should have a clear answer now: can we within that system take care of it? Can we maintain our ability to make market regulation, ensure that the farmer gets a reasonable price again for the product, also for the branches that do not leave the country? So he didn't answer that question. Does he understand any link between aid schemes granted above the State budget and what may be directed towards exports? That's the kind of answer he has to give. And is it also such that there is an increasing level of imports, such as feed inputs, etc., that will once again be the basis for increased exports? Is there a reasonable use for Norwegian resources available, for example: in a climate perspective? He doesn't answer that question. As long as he is initially in favour of export, I think he should come to Stortinget and address some of the specific issues that exist in connection with it. So he doesn't choose to do that. Will it be possible to maintain food production throughout the country? Will it be possible to maintain strong import protection, to continue with the food model that has initially served Norway and that we have safe food, good food, and to produce food throughout the country – also in the more marginal areas – and to provide Norway with additional quality, not least in terms of experiences, cultural landscapes, travel life, etc.? He chooses to avoid getting into those themes at all, and I think it's a little weird. Would the rest of the world accept that Norway maintains import barriers while at the same time facilitating exports itself? I think the most important thing we can do, of course, is to maintain the Norwegian food model: to ensure continued strong import protection, to ensure that we use our own natural resources primarily to produce food, and that we have market regulations and regulations that ensure that those who put down their labor effort in food production actually get something left for it, so that we do not pull up the whole food model at the thought that it might be too tempting to export. We are for the export of niche products; we are for some export of quality products. But we're not here to meet the interpellant about facilitating Norwegian food production to be based on and linked to exports, because it'll tear up some of the food model that I think we're totally dependent on in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-08.ana.ud356e841	I would like to thank the interpellant for giving us the opportunity to discuss agricultural policy. It's important. But the question that is missing is: why do we have a Norwegian agriculture? What is the objective of agricultural policy? Yes, it is to ensure food for the Norwegian population — pure and safe food — and to maintain the security of supply for the Norwegian population. Then it's the right that the representative of Aasland says, that the starting point for the interpellation is not niche production and exports of niche products, which the Council of State spends all the time talking about. No, it is that sheep should become Norwegian salmon – we export 1 million tons of Norwegian salmon per year. That's what the interpellant takes up, and I think it'll be a very dangerous way to go in. When the purpose is to produce food for your own people – safe, short-range food – it is a willingness to pay for it. The production of sheep meat is based on 25 pst. market income, 75 pst. Shit. This is a bad starting point for profitable exports. Then we have the type of exports that we have for the Norwegian market, for example. Jarlsberg cheese. He's not being exported because we're going to be very rich in it, but because Norwegian agriculture is becoming more profitable if a thing is to maintain the market balance. Norwegian farmers are blessed with residents in their own country who have a good willingness to pay, who are busy with quality. What I'm going to do is I'm going to be the main field of action: I'm going to supply the food that they're asking for. I am involved in any proposal to increase the part with Norwegian food in Norwegian refrigerators and Norwegian shopping carts. This will also affect the Norwegian position in free trade agreements, because it is not about exploiting the space for action we have in today’s agreement. It means, if one is to enter the left road, that Norway is to have offensive export interests in agriculture. What would the requirement be then? Well, of course they're negotiating with us, they're going to get quotas and export rights into Norway. I think there is something out of Norwegian agriculture. So fenal years were highlighted. Then I would like to ask: What does the representative of Skkelstad intend to do with the rest of the animal? After all, it's all an export that's very good today, but he has a low volume. There are some areas where we have been closed: export of breeding material. That's great. We are better there, and it is better to export semen from Norway than to export beef from Norway. But I'm going to give the representative a shiny opportunity. Norwegian agriculture has a profitable export industry that is environmentally friendly, non-subsidised, and that consumes about half a billion dollars a year in export revenue. The Norwegian fur industry is such an industry. What is the response of the representative Mr Skelstad? That industry must be banned. One shall not prohibit the product, but the product shall not be produced in Norway. We want to move production to countries with poorer standards before animal welfare. That's the answer from the representative at Skelstad. When referring to specialty products, it is important to be aware that we are exporting in spite of all the more dog food than the exclusive product from Norwegian agriculture. It's a demanding market to enter. And it must not, as I believe the representative, take the focus away from the fundamental problem of agricultural policy, namely that this government and this majority have led a policy that has given Norwegian agriculture overproduction, which now threatens the profitability of agriculture. That's the main challenge in the future. Then there is a reference to Kraftkar and other Norwegian specialty products. This would not have been possible, it would not have been a strength if we had had agricultural policy for the Progress Party in Norway. Because here is a completely dependent on us having well-functioning market mechanisms and a cooperative at the bottom of the production. So my advice to the representative of Skjelstad is: Good try, but Norwegian agriculture should live by providing the Norwegian population – export is a supplement.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-08.ana.ud356e869	I want to thank you for the interpellation. What we do at home is crucial to how our products are received out. With the support of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, Norway has participated for a number of years in the agricultural and food fair Grüne Woche in Berlin. It's been a great success. It has created enthusiasm both nationally and internationally. This is a great presentation of what should have been – I stress, should have been – the main line in Norwegian agricultural food production, not just a niche, because niche means a bike house. We're going to have something larger than a bike house. What is presented at Green Week is the characteristic of products that provide safe food, natural food, ecologically sound food and quality food at a reasonable price. It provides the basis for an attractive cultural landscape, provides a fair income for food producers, and provides a basis for creativity among skilled young people, whether they be agronomists, food professionals, cooks or waiters. Green Week shows that the most important is quality and ecologically sound production that gives enthusiasm and hope for the future, not volume thinking with the greatest possible and cheapest possible. This is not mentioned in Green Week. Norway, as a result of having a nationally regulated market of agricultural food, has very good — and that means S, which is better than M as a character — prerequisites for developing these qualities in the agricultural food. It's not like that in Denmark and Sweden. We have an incredible advantage. Important international consumer trends want this quality of food, as free as possible from chemical additives in production and processing, in order to achieve a healthy bacterial composition in the human intestine, because it is where it ends. There will be better and better scientifically documented correlation between the bacterial composition of the intestine, our internal soil, and diseases resulting from an intestinal imbalance. This is a scientific work that needs to be stimulated from the Stortinget in the future, and I hope that the Council of State hears what I am saying. Combating antibiotic-resistant bacteria is most important among many chemical substances that affect the bacterial composition and give an antimicrobial eco-shadow that produces resistance, dysfunction and changes in the bacterial flora composition that are essential to our health. Both narasin and monensin are patented antibiotics. The Council of State will have to admit that soon. They are used internationally in the food of chickens and turkeys, but are therefore antibiotics that the government will not prohibit as a feed additive in Norway, despite the fact that Norwegian law states that antibiotics are prohibited for prophylactic use. Nevertheless, despite today’s government, Norway has lost narasin uniquely in the chicken food – from 12 409 kg of antibiotics in 2014 to 92 kg in 2017. What success! I'm very proud of this, and there's been a lot of international attention. Our professionals are now going out and telling us how you've done it. Now monensin stands for turkey for luck. It was used 875 kg in 2017. It's going to go away. Vaccine is soon to be in place. Then this is going to be all right. This is completely parallel to what happened to salmon. Salmon is now almost free of antibiotics, and therefore Norwegian salmon has received the fantastic position internationally. Now we have to get the necessary measures for Norwegian quality agricultural food. We have to get a label like that in Switzerland, that it's on the meat and milk if antibiotics are used in feeding. It is a minimum requirement that the consumer needs. Here are the options, but it'll cost a few dollars.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-08.ana.ud356e886	I really thought I was going to be a little relieved by this debate, but the representatives Pollestad and Aasland are basically able to just see the problem areas and not least cultivate them. So, let's take a few words about it. Because it is not likely that this overproduction is due to the fact that the Norwegian farmer has become much more skilled. I don't think Aasland or Pollestad want them to be as good as they are, because that's what it's all about, that they've managed to produce so much. But then I am relieved by the last post, to the representative Per Olaf Lundtigen, who is professionally strong, as always. We do not always agree, the representative Lundtegen and I, but today I think that the last part of the article deals with exactly what it is about: the quality of the products. I am also proud that Norwegian agriculture has both traceability and documentation, a long history, which has made it possible not least for Norwegian agricultural management. It gives this opportunity to look beyond the borders of the country. I do not see the signals that the representatives Pollestad and Aasland see, that this could help to weaken the Norwegian import protection system. No, every country has, and must have, its basic production, anyway. That is my point of view, and I was also clear on that point. But I think we have to look at what our advantage is. And the advantages are, as the representative Lundtigen was very good at and pointed out: the quality – both through traceability and documentation. And that means more and more in the world. We know that in Southeast Asia they are very busy of quality. That doesn't mean we're going to dump any product. This means that products must be delivered at the price level in Norway. Then we must have a mark, as the representative of Lundtigen points out. I don't disagree. It seems to me that I would have been to highlight the Norwegian agricultural products in an even better way, because here it is quality throughout everything. We have traceability and documentation. Let's get started, Minister of Agriculture!
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-08.ana.ud356e897	It wasn't quite the debate I had in mind, to say it like that. There is no doubt that the government and I, as Minister of Agriculture and Food, are committed to ensuring that we have an agricultural policy throughout the country. We're dedicated to ensuring that we get food produced for the Norwegian population. But this was about seeing other opportunities, seeing some new opportunities. And then I experience a Aasland and a Pollestad that's just busy tearing everything down. I am at least happy that I am not a founder who would sit in the hall and listen to the debate – who wants to see opportunities, who wants to run food production in this country and actually see opportunities to export. Because if they had been sitting in the gallery listening to this debate, I think they had gone from being big optimists and having faith in their products to going home and thinking that this should not be my business. I think it is sad to choose such an approach to this important debate. I do not think it should be criticised that there has been overproduction because some are good. For example, TN70 sows have: helped to produce more than you did before. So you're good. Under the red-green one could not get balance when it applied to sheep and lambs. Then there was a deficit. When you put some tools in place, there are ambitious, forward-looking farmers out there who see the room for opportunity, who see the possibility of increasing production. Then, unfortunately, there are some challenges because it's going a little too fast, and then you have to work to balance again. But I think that's possible. So I think it's good that we have an interpellant who wants to see the opportunity room, who wants to challenge to take those opportunities. And at least I meet farmers out there who are positive, who want to see the opportunities, and who want to be forward-looking. I mentioned some good examples of someone who's done it, who's been able to do it. I hope that they can be good helpers for others who want to see the opportunity to get into the world and sell what Per Olaf Lundtigen was concerned about, namely the safe, good, Norwegian agricultural products for which people are actually willing to pay extra – because we have the quality we have. That's why I think it's sad that there was such a debate, and not a debate where you looked at the opportunity room, and took the opportunity room. I want to be a government council that is, of course, committed to following up what is the government's policy, which is clear and clear: we want to have an agricultural policy throughout the country, we are going to bet on agriculture. And there are fewer farms being closed under this government than under the previous government. It shows that there's a much greater optimism out there, and there's an investment desire. It shows that there are people who want to bet, and who see that with this government it's actually going to be farming in this country. It was a little worse before this government took over. Now the investment will be much bigger.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-08.ana.ud356e914	The debate on substance is closed. 3 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-08.ana.ud356e924	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting. Case No. 1 finished processing.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-08.ana.ud356e935	A total of 12 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1 and 2, from Liv Signe Navarsete on behalf of the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party proposed no. 3-9, from Audun Lighthouse on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposed no. 10-12, from the Bears Moxnes on behalf of Red Proposal No. 10-12, from Red, has been surrendered after the deadline in the first paragraph of Section 40 of the Rules of Procedure and will therefore not be taken up for voting. Proposal No. 3-9, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to publish the specific reasons why Norway freezes new licences for the export of defence equipment to Saudi Arabia.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government requests the publication of reasons for refusal and acceptance of licence applications to countries outside NATO.’; Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to strengthen the transparency of Norwegian export controls. As part of this, the government shall explore the possibility of introducing a similar practice as that in the Netherlands, where Parliament is publicly informed of the grant of export licences over a certain sum of details of the assessment of criteria against the application, except for the nearest allies, within two weeks of the application being granted.’;» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to establish a system of parliamentary selection or ethics for the export of Norwegian defence equipment. In such an investigation, it is natural to look at the experience of Sweden, England, Belgium and other countries with mechanisms for increased parliamentary transparency.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government is asking that requirements for end-user documentation become practice in all exports of defence equipment, including to NATO countries and close allies.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government requests the cessation of all exports of Norwegian military material to States where the military and the other security apparatus are instrumental in systematic and serious human rights violations.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to interpret criterion 2 of the U.D.’s export control guidelines for the human rights situation in the recipient countries more stringent than today and to ensure that Norway does not export military equipment to regimes responsible for widespread human rights violations.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-08.ana.ud356e999	Proposal No. 1 and 2, from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with a case that ensures that ATT Articles 6 and 7 are included in the law or regulation.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The size asks the government to explore the possibility of developing control mechanisms that allow enforcement of retail declarations.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-08.ana.ud356e1035	In Case No. 3 introduces no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-01-08.ana.ud356e1160	Thus, today's map is finished. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
