ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e69	Two permit applications are available: from the Workers' Party Group on the Permit of the Representative Lise Christoffersen from 28 May to 1 June to take part in the mission of the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly in Skopje from the Workers' Group on the leave of the representative Jorod Asphjell on 28 and 29 May to attend meetings of the Nordic Council of Greenland On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the period of leave as follows: For the Province of Buskerud: Anne Sandum 28-29. May For South Trondelag: Kristian Torve 28-29. May
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e122	The President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no loopholes, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e131	Questions relating to the control function of the Storting are regularly debated in public as well as in the bodies of the Storting, political parties and various trade unions. The size has therefore, on several previous occasions, taken up aspects of Storting's control functions for a fundamental investigation and debate. The last example of a broad review of such issues was the Frøiland Committee, which was set up by the Presidency in 2000. Over the next 20 years, new needs have arisen to evaluate practices or revise legislation related to the control function of the Storting on a number of points. In addition, the work in the wake of the Riksrevision report on the Prince’s Gate 26 construction project made it necessary to look at, among other things. audit and control of the Administration of Storting. On this basis, the Presidency has discussed the question of setting up a new selection of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee and the parties on the Stortinget. There is a common perception that the time is now ripe for a new review of selected issues. The Presidency therefore proposes that the Storting should set up a new selection to investigate the control function of the Storing. The election also invites the Stortinget to adopt a mandate for its work. One main theme of the draft mandate is selected issues relating to the control activities of the Storting itself, including some aspects of the control and constitution committee's fields of action, responsibilities and procedures, evaluation of provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Storting on minority rights in the committees, the relationship between the control and constitution committee and the professional committees and issues relating to the transparency of administrative documents for the committees and for individual representatives. Another main theme is the system of request decisions, including the need to further regulate this form of decision, as well as the procedure for the government’s notification of the follow-up to such decisions. A third main theme is the legislation of parliamentary committees of inquiry, where there is a need for a more detailed framework for work than has been provided today. A fourth main theme is some selected issues related to the external control bodies of the EEA. It is proposed that the sample be asked to look at the organisational and administrative links of the bodies with the Stortinget, to draw up a new law for the Civil Ombudsman in line with the leadership of the Supervisory and Constituent Committee in the position discussed in the Stortinget two weeks ago, and to consider whether a separate law should be given to the Ombudsman for the Defence Department. The last proposal for the main theme concerns the revision and control of the Administration of Storting. Possible devices of future control systems for the administration of Stortinget were discussed in the report to the Presidentship of Stortinget from the Working Party on the follow-up to the National Audit Office's report on the construction project. In examining this report, the Presidency considered it necessary to put in place more effective administrative control and audit procedures, but this was a question that required further investigation. It is not proposed that the sample assess the activities of the National Audit Office more generally, including the control activities of the National Audit Office vis-à-vis the administration. However, during the current ageing period, the Presidency will come back with a case of setting up a separate selection to review the law on the Riksrevision and the Riksrevision activities more generally. The Presidency proposes that this selection be given a deadline of January 2021. It allows the Storting to process the sample report before the end of the current ageing period. If the sample wishes to submit proposals for constitutional changes that can be made during the current enlargement period, the sample may submit an interim report with proposals for amendments to the Constitution by the end of August 2020. The nomination proposes that the Presidency be empowered to appoint the Chair and members of the Committee in agreement with the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee. All party groups will be invited to participate in the work. In order to ensure proportionality, the two largest parties will be given the opportunity to appoint two large-scale representatives, while the other parties will be given the opportunity to appoint one single large-scale representative each. In addition, the sample shall have three to five members with professional competence in law, social sciences and the social economy or audit profession. I would advise the Stortinget to make a decision to set up a selection to investigate the control function of the Storing in line with the presidential setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e156	I would like to commend the presidency and the Committee on Control and Constitution for the initiative that has now been taken to set up a selection to look at the control functions of the Stortinge. I am among those who have all my political time claimed that the Storting has three main tasks: being a legislative, advocating and controlling authority. The control of the large central government is very, very important, and the monitoring of the good follow-up of the decision of Storting is also very, very important. I'm glad that this sample is being put down. I also had the pleasure of being in the Frøiland Committee, as the prime minister mentioned, and that did a real job, but a lot has changed over the about 20 years that have passed, and then it's time to look at the control function again. I am also pleased that there has been mention of the administrative and organisational structure of the EEA's external organisations – that is important – where, in particular, one building is reminiscent of the time several hundred years ago. We have two of these in Norway: the construction of Norway's Bank, where the Chairman of the Board is also the Executive Director, and the Riksrevision, where the head of the College is also the Executive Director. There is absolute reason to reconsider and perhaps to consider whether these different external bodies should have a similar structure with a board of directors that has the primary task of recruiting and, where appropriate, dismissing the Executive Director, as is the case in many companies. One of the main tasks of the Boards is to employ the Executive Director, but also to remove the Executive Director when it appears to be necessary. The fact that you can also look at that structure, I think it is very important and in time when we see the little turmoil that has been in the Riksrevision. I understand from the President-in-Office that the presidency will come back with another selection to look specifically at the law of the Riksrevision. I hope that, if necessary, it can be assessed expeditiously, as there is a relatively clear need to look at that institution.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e167	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e181	The Granavolden Government Platform states that the 2030 agenda and the commitment to meet the sustainability targets are our main track in development policy. It is also our main tool to address the underlying causes of persistent poverty, conflict, extremism and climate challenges. The sustainability agenda defines development as a national responsibility. Responsibility for ownership and management of developments is clearly placed with national authorities. Neither will it be possible to achieve the objectives without functioning countries and institutions in developing countries. If we are to end all extreme poverty, combat hunger and provide health and education for all, the main step is to help countries' own authorities to take this responsibility for themselves. This is a key objective of Norwegian development policy. Over several decades, recipient orientation and responsibility have been guiding principles for Norwegian development policy. Development cooperation is therefore not about individual projects run by donor countries. The government’s objective must be to support its own policies and institutions. That is why we are now working to clarify the partner country scheme, and we are also developing our own strategies for all partner countries. In the following, I will focus on new initiatives in development policy. A number of key elements of our development policy will therefore be less affected. Let me therefore stress that the thematic headlines and the geographical areas are fixed. Similarly, the four cross-cutting considerations – human rights, women’s rights and equality, climate and environment and anti-corruption. However, the government has committed itself to a stronger poverty orientation. Assistance should be more targeted towards those who need it the most. Three weeks ago, we received the OECD Global Assistance Statistics. It shows that in 2018, assistance to the least developed countries – the so-called MUL countries – fell by 4 pst. That means there's been a decline in six of the last seven years. It is very serious when we know that the 2030 agenda commits us to the opposite: winning the fight against extreme poverty. From the Norwegian side, therefore, we are going in the opposite direction and are increasing the share of the MUL countries. This includes, inter alia: enhanced efforts in sub-Saharan Africa. As we know, 33 of the world's 47 least developed countries are located in this region. Much has been achieved in the last decades. Lifetime has increased significantly. Infant mortality has been greatly reduced. Extreme poverty is halved. Never again have they received the necessary vaccines. No one else has ever gone to school. It shows that targeted efforts deliver results, although much remains. The government will continue to fight for all children to receive quality education. Education is a fundamental prerequisite for reducing poverty, creating growth and contributing to development. Since 2013, the government has more than doubled the appropriations for education. Not least is the girls' education of great importance, and indicated by the Prime Minister and her international commitment in the field, we will continue our strong efforts. This year, it's off at the top of $3.7 billion. kr for education. This results, even for the most vulnerable. One example is the Education Cannot Wait programme, which we together with, among others. UNICEF has contributed to the schooling of over 1.3 million children in Yemen. The government will ensure that Norway remains a leading country in international health work. There is still a need for half of the world’s population to have access to basic health services. It makes even simple diseases dangerous and creates a lot of unnecessary suffering. In the current year, the government will spend about 4.8 billion dollars. kr in the field of health. It saves lives and helps build and strengthen the foundation of economic and human development in poor countries. This is an effort that produces results. The GAVI vaccine alliance has contributed from 2000 to 2017 to saving more than 10 million human lives and is on the way to achieving the goal of vaccination of 300 million children in the period 2016–2020. It will save between five and six million children's lives. The Global Fund for the Control of AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria has helped to save 12 million lives between 2013 and 2018. Tuberculosis is still the disease that takes the most lives in the world. That's why we want to use our influence to give this area more attention and increased resource input, among other things. through research into new and more child-advanced drugs. Less attention than tuberculosis, malaria and HIV are non-infectious diseases. 70 pst. of all deaths in the world are caused by this group of diseases, and they are a major contributor to chronic poverty. In line with Stortinget's expressed wish, we have therefore started work on a strategy for tackling non-infectious diseases. The most important are cardiovascular diseases, cancer, chronic respiratory diseases, diabetes and mental diseases. In this last case — global mental health — there is a field of low attention. 85 pst. for people with mental illness in developing countries, no treatment at all. During my recent visit to the eastern Congo, I was told how the entire community is severely traumatized after decades of violence, conflict and massive assault on the civilian population. It goes without saying that in such situations, it will be difficult to create a basis for sustainable development without even addressing this dimension. The government also strengthens its efforts for sexual and reproductive health and rights and is well on track to meet the 2017 promise to increase this field by 700 million. kr by 2020. Internationally, we are now experiencing increasing pressure against civil society organisations. This goes hand in hand with another disturbing trend: the multilateral system is under pressure. Leading countries appear increasingly to prefer alone. In the following, I will not spend much space on our multilateral efforts. In June, the Government presented a communication to the Stortinge on multilateral work. These trends and trends will also be discussed here. But when we're discussing development policy, it's important that we are aware that the landscape we're moving in has changed significantly in just a few years. We are now facing a force that is working against us, threatening to destroy large parts of our development effort. It will undermine our ability to achieve the sustainability goals. Climate change — what is commonly called the great development destroyer, the great developer, and with good reason. Climate change is here, and it is a terrible shock. These are the ones that have contributed the least to climate change, which is being hit the hardest. It is the poorest countries that will lose most in climate change. According to the United Nations, 26 million people are expelled from their homes every year as a result of the same climate change. By 2030, therefore, we are at risk of a further 100 million people being pushed into extreme poverty for the same reason. The UN Secretary-General says this: climate change is moving faster than we are doing. Changes in the form of increased temperatures, more frequent and longer-term droughts and increasingly extreme weather conditions help to undermine our overall development effort. This forces us to have to direct our efforts towards two fronts. On the one hand, we need to take action to reduce emissions of harmful greenhouse gases. On the other hand, we must adapt to the changes that have already taken place and make work to prevent future disasters more effective. Let me do it first. Climate and environment have long been a key priority for the government. Overall, it's set at 6.8 billion. on the 2019 assistance budget for climate, environment, sea and renewable energy measures. As stated in the Granvolden platform, the government will increase support for climate finance. In recent years, we have doubled the investment in renewable energy, increased the appropriations for Norfund's investments in renewable energy, increased the allocation of the climate and forest initiative, increased the investment in food security, and the government will propose to double the Norwegian contribution to the Green Climate Fund from 400 million. NOK 800 million. kr from 2020. Energy production and use account for two thirds of greenhouse gas emissions. It shows how important it is to reduce the use of fossil energy in the future. Coal is the largest contributor to global temperature increase. The rapid phase-out of coal is therefore essential for achieving the climate objectives. The government has started work on how we can help to ensure that developing countries are not locked in new coal-fired investments and that existing coal-fired power is phased out. In 2018, 838 million people lacked access to electricity, and 3 billion lacked safe fuel for cooking. We're not on track to achieve the energy targets in 2030. Norway will contribute through the development of renewable energy production, with Norfund as its main instrument. Norfund has so far invested 10.9 billion. kr – 49 pst. of the investment portfolio — in renewable energy, in particular in hydropower. As is well known, increased energy availability is also crucial for job creation and growth in the manufacturing sector. Furthermore, the government increases support for energy access for individuals/households and for business and productive activities. Aid for the use of better coke ovens will be an important part of this. There are major health consequences of indoor air pollution — more than four million deaths can be avoided. As seen, this effort will also make an important contribution to the government’s increased efforts to combat non-infectious diseases. Access to energy for the most vulnerable will be prioritised. Studies carried out by the United Nations show that households with disabled persons use 50 pst. more energy, lower electricity availability and more serious health consequences. The future is a combination of mains power and distributed solutions. In the context of the review of the 2019 budget, the Government has requested: ‘examined different models for, and come back with, an assessment of, a renewable energy guarantee scheme in developing countries, and explain this at the latest in the context of the revised national budget 2019’. I will come back to Stortinget with a detailed explanation of this work. We also need to intensify our work on the second front – adapting to the climate change already taking place and preventing natural disasters. If we don't, we'll see that an increasing proportion of the results of our development effort are literally being reflected at sea. After many years of progress in the field, we've experienced that hunger is on the rise again in the last three years. For this reason, the government is now turning climate adaptation, prevention and hunger reduction into a key element of development. Through projects such as the forest initiative and our significant support for renewable energy, we have shown our way. However, this has also resulted in a strong focus on our efforts on emission reduction measures. The objective of the UNFCCC is to balance aid between emission reduction measures on the one hand and adaptation and disaster prevention on the other. As we all know, if we're going to achieve the sustainability goals, it won't keep going on like today. The bet must be accelerated. Through a significant increase in our efforts for climate adaptation, prevention and hunger reduction, the government will make this a key element in Norwegian development work. Through this, we also support our reinforced work on food security. Through prevention, we help to ensure that results that have not already been achieved are lost, and we create a better balance in our climate portfolio between emission reduction on the one hand and adaptation and prevention on the other. Prevention is also a field where you get a lot back for the effort. Calculations from the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) show that each invested krone in prevention leads to 7 kr saved in humanitarian aid. Adaptation and prevention are also at the heart of one of the major challenges facing us as development actors – the relationship between humanitarian response and long-term development. Good prevention will reduce the scale of crises. With this in mind, we have been working on a strategy for climate adaptation, prevention and control of hunger. The volume, arrangements and channels will be returned by the government in the context of the presentation of the budget in the autumn. What is already clear is that agriculture and food security will be a central part of these measures. This is closely linked to sustainability objective No. 2 to eradicate hunger. In this area, we are unfortunately going in the wrong direction. In 2018, more than 820 million people had uncertain or limited access to food. One out of three children in low-income countries is growth-reduction. Nearly half of the deaths among children under the age of five are due to malnutrition. Seven out of ten of the poorest in the world live in rural areas in developing countries. Sustainable growth in production for small scale producers is therefore essential in order to achieve precisely these sustainability objectives. Figures from the World Bank also show that support for agricultural growth can be two to four times as effective poverty reduction as support for other sectors. Women play a crucial role in small-scale food production in developing countries, but often have limited rights. Strengthening their position and rights is a major potential. This is why this is a priority in the government’s work on agriculture and food security. There are complex causal links behind the increasing food uncertainty. It results in different rashes, from acute hunger to chronic or periodic malnutrition. There are direct challenges with food production, seed and soil erosion, water resources that do not stretch to and food waste. All of this, of course, is further reinforced by climate change. The government's forthcoming action plan on food, the environment and people links these different factors. Through the action plan, we want to focus on food production, markets, nutrition and governance. Connecting food value chains, for example climate change, trade, demography, prevention and policy development, make Norway a priority country. There are few, if any, other countries that have developed such a plan for foreign and development policy. Over the next 30 years, the world's population will grow by 2 billion people. If we are to succeed in ensuring sufficient food access for a rapidly growing population, the marine ecosystems will also be crucial. Through the government's wide sea bet, we make important contributions to this. Strengthening food security efforts will take place in close cooperation with other departments, the agricultural sector and civil society. This also includes follow-up to the Storting's order to look at agriculture for development as a component of the Knowledge Bank. Sustainability targets cover all countries and affect all parts of society. Then we must also have a look at the links between development policy and what we do in other policy areas. Norway leaves a global footprint that has implications for both the achievement of sustainability goals and the developing countries’ own situation. To achieve the sustainability objectives, coordination of national resources is required. The OECD underlines the need for cooperation across traditional silos in order to ensure, as far as possible, that the various efforts support each other. In 2018, the Government appointed a Consensus Forum. It is managed by the U.D. in cooperation with the Ministry of Climate and Environment, the Ministry of Health and Welfare and the Ministry of Finance. The aim is to contribute to the compliance of Norwegian policies in relevant policy areas with development policy objectives. In the Forum, representatives from non-governmental organisations, academia, the private sector, the employment organisations and the ministries meet for regular consultations on the cohesion reform requested by the Stortinget. This year's report to the Stortinget is about climate and the environment. There will always be dilemmas associated with this topic. But we think it's important to get these dilemmas up on the table, make them visible and discuss how best to solve them. Here, the Cohesion Committee has an important role to play. The report will be included in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs’ budget proposal. So what's the status of the 2030 agenda when there's a decade to go by 2030? UN Secretary-General Guterres has been ready: we are not on the way to achieving the sustainability goals. The good news is that the targets are still within reach. But to achieve them, we need to accelerate our efforts significantly. National resource mobilisation is a crucial challenge. Global development aid – ODA – amounted to 149 billion in 2018. dollar. According to UN estimates, 18 times this amount will be needed annually until 2030 to achieve the targets. This funding gap will not be filled with aid. For this massive resource mobilisation that is required, we need what I want to call the big money, and we do not find it primarily in the development budgets of the rich countries. Again, the 2030 agenda states that development is a national responsibility. Equally rich countries also have a responsibility to contribute to their achievement. Estimates show that about 70 pst. of the resources needed to achieve the sustainability objectives must come from developing countries themselves. Therefore, the government considers it essential to contribute to building systems and institutions that ensure that the community is reasonably, fairly and predictablely ensured by a fair share of the values created in developing countries. This is also one of the most important steps in development. Let me give you an example that illustrates the relationship between development aid and the big money. Norway’s total aid to Bangladesh in the 10-year period 2009 to 2018 was 799 million. kr. In the same period, telecommunications companies in Bangladesh, which have Telenor as a majority shareholder, have paid more than 60 billion dollars. kr in tax to the bangladsh state. The government is planning to spend $300 million. kr in 2019 to help countries improve their tax systems. With this, we reach our commitments in the Addis Tax Initiative one year early. It's a good investment. We have examples of projects where every penny we've spent in tax assistance has traveled as much as 100 kroner more in public revenue. Again, this illustrates the relationship between aid and the large amount of money and how the aid — used correctly — can seem catalytic. It has been clearly demonstrated that an inefficient tax system is bad for everyone, but it is bad for women. A good tax system can be an important contribution to women’s liberation. With good tax systems, the welfare state can be expanded — and the welfare state contributes to improving women’s lives. However, increased tax revenue is not itself the road to well-being and distribution. But that's an important assumption. Another prerequisite, of course, is that it is linked with political will to spend this money for the benefit of the population. This last is something we can never take for granted. I want to spend a little time on another aspect of resource mobilisation. The Government and the Storting are working together to help stop illegal capital flows between countries. It's a great force. It gives us an opportunity to be clear that this is a danger to society, life and health for the population of most countries. Estimating the amount of illegal capital flows becomes a very technical discussion. The different studies crack, but have it in common that they're talking about huge sums. Estimates show that only lost tax revenue can cover more than twice as much as annual global development aid. More importantly, it may be to focus attention on the consequences of just these cash flows. It is women who have to bear the greatest burden when the welfare state does not exist. It's about kids who can't go to school because the government doesn't have money in the box. It's about people who die prematurely because they don't get the most basic health care. It's lost money for development. It has been clearly demonstrated that illegal capital flows contribute to increasing inequality and undermine the country’s ability to provide basic services to its population. But these cash flows are much more than lost money that could go to development. Illegal capital flows contribute to the confusion of the social contract itself and to the undermining of democratic institutions. It allows environmental crime, slavery, human trafficking, corruption and terrorism. These cash flows lead to serious business actors refusing to invest. In short, they help to undermine our whole development effort. To achieve the sustainability objectives, it is essential that we channel these flows into legal forms so that they can contribute to the necessary national resource mobilisation. The fight against illegal capital flows and corruption is therefore a key priority for the government. Let me also mention that since July Norway will take over the presidency of the UN Economic and Social Council — ECOSOC. A main feature of the Norwegian Presidency will be just financing for development. A third aspect of national resource mobilisation is the role and job creation of the private sector. Earlier this year, I was in Ethiopia. There I was told that two million jobs had to be created annually in order to get away from the large youth schools that join the labour market. Africa south of the Sahara as a whole will need 20 million new jobs per year to keep track of population growth. This means that in the years to come, the number of jobs has to be more than doubled compared to the previous two decades. If we are to achieve the sustainability objectives, it is essential that we succeed here. However, job creation is also about something far more than the ability to provide decent work for citizens, and through this it ensures tax revenues that can finance public services. Still growing youth coals without job prospects and hope for the future are, as we all know, a recipe for social unrest and extreme social disintegration. The many new jobs needed will have to come in the private sector in all material respects. For this reason, the government has increased its efforts for business development and job creation by 290 million. kr in the year's budget, and we continue our strategic cooperation with Norwegian and international business. Norfund is one of our most important instruments in industrial development. The private sector creates jobs, but for sustainability objectives to be achieved, it is essential that the private sector acts responsibly. Enterprises play a central role in raising the standard of working life and human rights in the countries in which they engage. The government expects Norwegian companies to follow up and comply with the UN guiding principles for business and human rights and the OECD guidelines for multinational companies in their operations globally. The decision to invest seriously private actors is a good, predictable framework. This is also a main element of the government's work on job creation. In this way, this is also closely linked to our efforts in the tax field and our efforts to combat illegal capital flow and corruption. Developing countries need jobs, but in order for business to find it interesting to invest, they need to have access to labour with appropriate qualifications. This is why we are strengthening efforts for vocational training in the current year. We are in the midst of a digital revolution that fundamentally changes how we deal with each other, and how we organize our societies. We communicate in new ways, and artificial intelligence, automation and robotization have become part of our daily lives. Digitalisation opens up too many opportunities, including in development policy. Properly, new technologies can effectively contribute to poverty reduction among those who need it the most and provide marginalised groups with enhanced opportunities to actively participate in society. Basic infrastructure in developing countries, good framework conditions, regulation and digital skills are essential for success. During my recent visit to Myanmar, I saw how the World Food Programme and UNICEF have launched development projects where the use of new technologies contributes to health and education progress. Participation of the population in the digital revolution in developing countries will be crucial to achieving the sustainability goals. Therefore, during the autumn session, we will present a key message on digitisation in development policy. At the heart of the 2030 agenda is the sentence ‘Leaving no one behinderd’ – that no one should be left out. The concept goes to the heart of a fundamental premise of the Christian and humanistic tradition; all have the same human dignity regardless of abilities, skills, faith or legation. But it also goes to the heart of human rights, as these are enshrined in international binding conventions. Too many people feel that it's not like that. One third of the world's disabled children receive no education at all. Many live dangerously because of their personal beliefs, others because of their sexual orientation. If we don't give these groups the same possibilities as others, when we don't have the sustainability targets either. That's why this is going to be one of the government's main priorities. I would like to take up some of the particularly vulnerable groups here: those who are subjected to slavery and trafficking in human beings, girls who are exposed to harmful customs, and people with disabilities. The International Labour Organization, the ILO, has estimated that over 40 million people live under what may be called slavelike relationships. Trafficking in human beings, forced labour, indebtedness, gross child labour and forced marriage are part of the term. Slavery-like conditions exist in most supply chains in most countries. We find it in the coltan grapes in Congo, in the textile industry in Asia, in the tomato soils in southern Italy and in car washes in Oslo. According to ILO, modern slavery generates 150 billion. dollars annually in illegal profits in the private economy. Modern slavery is today one of the fastest growing human rights challenges in the world, while it is one of the greatest challenges for our global economy. The sustainability targets also say something about this and include a measure that all the countries of the world must: ‘Take immediate and effective measures to abolish forced labour, end modern slavery and trafficking in human beings and ensure that the worst forms of child labour are prohibited and abolished, including the recruitment and use of child soldiers, and abolish all forms of child labour by 2025’. The Granavolden platform states that Norway should step up its efforts to combat modern slavery and bring it together in a new assistance programme. We have set up a resource group with the top experts and central organisations in the field, and we are in the process of investigating how Norway can contribute in the most comprehensive and effective way possible to the fight against modern slavery. It's assumed that the world has a deficit of 126 million girls and women. The harmful practice of preferring sons is one of the main causes of the deficit. This is a strong expression of discrimination against girls and women and must be seen as a result of the low status and the value of many societies attributed to girls, compared to boys. To address this, we need to address the underlying causes and try to influence structural social conditions and social norms that discriminate against girls and women. This work is ongoing in many arenas and with many different partners, from support to multilateral organisations, civil society organisations and through normative efforts within the UN. We are now developing a new strategy for international work against harmful practices, which includes child and coercion marriages, sexual mutilation and the preference of sons. Through the RNB, the government has set aside another 44 million. kr to the UN's efforts in this field. And then the total, this is going to be 110 million. kr. This is in addition to Norad's support for civil society organisations' work in the field. Of course, this work is closely linked to our already significant commitment to sexual and reproductive health and rights, because as the representative Hadia Tajik put it in a question to me about child marriage earlier in ours, this is also about knowledge of your own body and rights. And I could add: Deepest, it's about human dignity and human vision. It is a strategy that will be launched during the year. About 15 pst. of the world's population lives with varying degrees of disability, of which more than 80 pst. – about 800 million people – live in developing countries. The number is expected to increase to double by 2050. The UN has demonstrated that people with disabilities are at the bottom of all development parameters. They face barriers, discrimination and stigmatisation that prevent them from sharing in the progress made in many areas for people with no disabilities. Furthermore, there are major challenges to data on people with disabilities and their needs. Many are not registered at birth and data on their access to social services are limited. It is estimated that about half of children with disabilities in low-income countries do not attend school. Those who go to school often face major obstacles in the form of lack of organisation. This is the case in most sectors. Yes, it will cost to give people with disabilities the same rights as health care. But this cost is also an investment. The International Labour Organisation (ILO) has estimated that the lack of inclusion of disabled persons has a cost of up to 7 pst. of GDP in low and medium-income countries. But so important: these are challenges that go to the core of the sustainability objectives principle that no one should be excluded. Large groups are excluded from the services and arrangements that functional health can take for granted. This is about people who feel that their fundamental human rights are not being fulfilled. And once again, Deepest is about human dignity and human vision. We've long had a strong commitment to these groups. We don't succeed in giving these possibilities to get up when we don't have the goals either. Therefore, the government wants to further strengthen this effort, initially with an additional 100 million. kr in the current year, channelled through Norad’s support for civil society. The partnership with civil society is a key to success in including the most vulnerable. Norwegian development cooperation enjoys broad popular support. According to the studies carried out by the SSB, more than 90 pst is supported. the assistance of the population. Without it, it wouldn't be politically possible to switch 1 pst off. of GNI for our development effort. The strong, popular commitment has a long tradition and many explanations. An important factor is the strong role of civil society in Norwegian development cooperation. Nearly one quarter of Norwegian development aid is channelled through civil society organisations. The commitment of civil society, mobilization and valuable insight into what's really happening out there on the ground is not only an important corrective, but also an inspiration to tackle problems that many might think little Norway can't lift and lead on its own. The Mines Convention and the Class Ammunition Convention are international agreements that have undoubtedly helped to save thousands of lives. Without a civil society that pressed on, mobilized and gave us facts from the field, they might never happen. The ongoing work against marine pollution would not have the power and the upswing we see, without the efforts of civil society. The Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities is another important example of how civil society puts a case on the agenda, follows it until it is adopted as an international law and ensures that the rules are actually respected and complied with. Civil society organisations will also be key partners in the efforts of vulnerable groups. On this basis, the Government has decided to further increase support for civil society organisations. A strong civil society is a fundamental prerequisite for any living democracy. The trend in recent years is alarming. We see in many countries that the space for action of civil society is being turned upside down. Promoting democracy and human rights is increasingly a risk activity. Civil society is increasingly experiencing both legal restrictions and direct violence. Unfortunately, this is a global trend, which now also applies to our own continent. Here, I don't think there are any quick solutions. We must continue to use our influence to ensure the effective participation of civil society in political processes, in cooperation countries and multilateral forums, in line with the principles of sustainability goals and human rights. And we shall continue to support the important role of civil society in development. Aid has helped many individuals. It has eased hunger, provided vaccines, secured education, cured diseases, and saved millions of lives. At the same time, the basic objective of aid is to contribute to lasting societal changes that enable poor countries to deliver basic services to the population themselves. Let's be clear: creating sustainable development in some of the world's poorest, most conflict-affected and vulnerable areas is necessarily associated with risk. Things won't always go as planned. Projects will temporarily fail. It actually happens from time to time also in our own highly developed and advanced society. 1 pst. of GNI is a lot of money. Then the community should know that we are doing our utmost to use these means in the most effective way possible, and can trust that we will learn from our experience. Norwegian taxpayers must be able to assume that there are results, not good intentions, that apply. They must be able to know that efficiency controls priorities and that what does not work is abandoned. The performance focus in development cooperation has therefore been strengthened in recent years. We are now working on the creation of a performance portal. The aim of this is to improve public understanding of how we manage Community funds. It will also strengthen the opportunities to learn from experience, and we will create a better basis for ongoing debate. This is essential both for the achievement of results and for maintaining the legitimacy of development cooperation in the population. That is why this is a work we want to give priority to. The key to success is also that we have the best possible knowledge base for the plans, strategies and projects we are embarking on. Here is our close interaction with the research environments of great importance. This is important not only in order to ensure the best possible basis for decision-making, but also for the ability to submit the results to the necessary assessment and evaluation. Support for developing countries' own research environments is also important. That's why the government is using over 1.1 billion. on the annual development budget for research. Development cooperation is changing considerably and the aid budget has increased significantly over time. In order to ensure that Norwegian aid reaches the poorest and most vulnerable groups, strong professional environments and good governance are needed. The government has now chosen a model for the reform of the aid management. Norad, the Directorate for Development Cooperation, will be entrusted with responsibility for major areas of aid management, while the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will have a more pure responsibility for policy development. Aid which is currently the constitutional responsibility of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, including: humanitarian aid and human rights work appropriations will continue to be managed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs will be responsible for the strategic arrangement of the means of assistance and management documents such as action plans and escalation plans. Responsibility for the assessment, quality assurance, implementation, follow-up, control and reporting of the assistance will be largely delegated to Norad. This model will provide us with a more holistic practice and better quality in the follow-up to assistance. We aim to ensure that a reformed assistance management will be in place from 1 January 2020. A last overall point of assistance: Norway is a major development actor. We'll be listened to. Of course, it has to do with making us have relatively large budgets. But equally important – perhaps more important – for us to be listened to is the knowledge, competence, creativity and experience of Norwegian professional environments – in the international service, in Norad, in the research communities and in the civil society organisations, including church and mission organisations. It has given us places at the main tables and perhaps more than anything else contributed to our being listened to. This has enabled us to play leading roles in many central processes. And here we are at a crucial point: Money is important, but most importantly, politics, and money is much more valuable when they are linked to good policy. In this presentation I have chosen to focus on the new initiatives of the government. Central to us is the fight against poverty and the work on sustainability objectives, where no one should be left out. With that, we place human dignity in the centre of development policy. Furthermore, I have chosen to spend time on some of the most important challenges facing development actors towards 2030. Resource mobilisation is one of these. But most importantly, climate change and how these threaten to undermine our overall development effort. That is why the government's increased efforts to combat climate change and prevent hunger are also what I want to highlight as my main priority as a Minister for Development. Then it's that way that the needs are big. There are hundreds of millions of people who need our help and attention. There are unmet needs in most areas. And there are programs, partnerships, initiatives, channels and mechanisms to fix most of this. We can't be everything to everyone. In the global effort that Agenda 2030 is, we need a sensible division of labour. For example, we have to. could say that although the development of roads, ports and railways is important for achieving sustainability goals, it is not where we are going to direct our efforts. How we solve the challenges that arise in the urban space of Asia's megatowns may not be what we're best at responding to. But where we are, in the areas that we've defined as our areas of action, we're going to take the goal of being a leading actor. I think we will be able to do that to a great extent. Norwegian development policy is characterised by consensus. There is a broad consensus on development policy — in the population and in this room. It also applies to the fact that we, as one of the very few countries, put out 1 pst. of GNI for development purposes. This broad consensus is a strength. It is a strength because it makes it possible to build solid environments of competence over time and to be a long-term, predictable partner. The priorities I have presented here do not mean any sudden change, but we provide development policy responses to some of the biggest challenges we now see. I am very pleased with this opportunity to explain our development priorities, and I look forward to the debate on 28 May.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e407	The President will propose that the Minister of Development's statement on development policy be discussed in a subsequent meeting of the Council. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 3 and 4 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e440	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that there be no loopholes, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. No one has asked to speak on the matter. 3 and 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e462	The matter concerns the inclusion of Directive 2014/67/EU in the EEA Agreement. The Directive concerns the enforcement of the Broadcasting Directive and the amendment of the IMI Regulation, called the Enforcement Directive. EEA membership gives us the opportunity to cooperate also on important employment issues in the internal market. Such cooperation may concern both the exchange of information in relation to the management of authorisation schemes and the provision of assistance in relation to the supervision of operators operating in several EEA countries. Today's Enforcement Directive provides rules to ensure that workers posted on behalf of the provision of services in other EEA countries are protected in accordance with the Posting Directive. This Directive involves economic consequences which are believed to be of major importance. The Enforcement Directive is directly linked to the Broadcasting Directive, 96/71/EC. The terms and conditions of employment of workers are regulated by the Broadcasting Directive at the time they are sent to another EEA State for the purposes of the temporary provision of services by the employer. The Enforcement Directive concerns information, supervision and enforcement of these rules. The overall objective of the Enforcement Directive is to strengthen the enforcement and enforcement of the rules on pay and working conditions resulting from the Broadcasting Directive. The intention of the Enforcement Directive is to balance the need for countries to have effective control measures and mechanisms to prevent posted workers from being exposed to social dumping and labour-life crime, against – on the other hand – the need for predictability and clarity of broadcasting activities with regard to the rules applicable when providing cross-border services. Finally, as the rapporteur, I would like to take the opportunity to thank the members of the Committee for their cooperation in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e477	The Party shall vote against the Government Parties and the Workers' Party's position on the matter of inclusion in the EEA Agreement of the Directive on the Enforcement of the Broadcasting Directive and amendment of the IMI Regulation, the Enforcement Directive. It is in accordance with what the Senterpartiet did when the case was pending a major investigation on 16 February 2017, during the processing of Prop. 5 L for 2016-2017, implementation of the Enforcement Directive. In this context, the Centre Party took part in a proposal as follows: ‘The government is asked to introduce a registration obligation for non-resident service providers in Norway’.» It's important for us to get it in. We haven't had a majority for that. When we work for it, it's because we always have to have an overview of who works where, with who, in Norway. The first commandment to get a better order in Norwegian working life is that we have an overview of who works where, when and with whom. Only by doing so can we ensure a control and follow-up system that will ensure that we get rid of the significant work-life crime we have. It was said that the inclusion of the enforcement directive would lead to significant progress, and we now note that the State Recovery Centre has so far not imposed any requirements under this legislation. The parties who said that this enforcement directive was important and correct must be given due consideration. Following the assessment of the Centre Party, it is Norway’s sovereign decision to define what is a posted worker in Norway. We have previously made suggestions for a clear definition of «employee» in the Working Environment Act when amending the Working Environment Act § 1-7. This restriction needs to be amended so that today’s ‘limited period’ is changed to ‘up to 30 days’. This will lead to fewer posted workers and thus to a stronger protection for several posted workers. Another thing – in the setting of the Ship Labour Act – is the situation of workers in Norwegian waters and on Norwegian seas, that they should be compensated under Norwegian wage and working conditions. For the Central Party, it is important to insist that we have our own rules of solidarity, that is. that the main employer is responsible for the whole chain of subcontractors. Furthermore, it must be a prerequisite for the implementation of the Directive in Norwegian law that the current instruments to combat social dumping and labour crime are not weakened. However, if Norway is subject to restrictions in this important area as a result of the Enforcement Directive, Norwegian labour law, Norwegian collective bargaining agreements and ILO conventions shall prevail over the provisions of the Directive. It's absolutely central to the Center Party. We see how it is challenged again and again because EU law unfortunately turns out to be above Norwegian law and above ILO conventions – unfortunately for those parties who say that they want a well-organised working life. The well-organised working life is systematically weakened by the fact that EU legislation that is weaker overrides stronger Norwegian regulations for the benefit of workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e493	The consent of the majority to the approval of the decision to include the enforcement directive in the EEA Agreement is a formal matter, but an important one. It provides us with rules to ensure that posted workers are protected in accordance with the Posting Directive. It is about the information, supervision and enforcement of the rules. Effective control measures and mechanisms to prevent the social dumping and criminality of posted workers shall be implemented. Then I register that some people in this case too in their effective fight against the EEA Agreement will refuse to implement the Directive. I do not know the full consequences if the majority against assumption would say no to implementation, but I know that they would like to have control measures and mechanisms that prevent social dumping and labour crime. Regardless of whether the Posting of Workers Directive appears to be perfect or not; once it has been adopted, all those who are entitled to the rights of workers should be interested in its enforcement. In addition, when our largest association of workers, LO, writes on its website that this is a purely formal case since the content has already entered into force, it tells me that the resistance to this directive is about one thing, and that is EEA resistance. Working with labour policy under a right-wing regime for a workers’ party representative in the opposition can sometimes feel like a bit of a long counter-ground. However, today’s inclusion of the enforcement directive is at least a small step in the right direction for posted workers. This Directive does not prevent Norwegian measures against social dumping or occupational crime. The fight against social dumping continues in this room, in the workplace, and not least through calls for tenders from Kommune-Norway, which open up the unprofessional employers, so that we can have safe and regular jobs throughout Norwegian employment.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e504	When services are provided across borders of the EU and the EEA, so-called transmission to another EU or EEA country is one of the ways it can be done. After many years of dragonfights, the EU adopted in 1996 a broadcasting directive to ensure that workers are sent out with the same pay and working conditions as those of the host country. However, in 2007/2008, the European Court of Justice, with four judges, turned down the way in which the directive was to be understood. What had been a floor for which the host country could require pay and working conditions for posted workers was made a roof for what could be required. Such an interpretation of the directive came as lightning from the clear sky and split the EU between countries with labour immigration and countries with emigration. It took the EU 10 years, until 2017, to adopt a new broadcasting directive aimed at securing the same pay for the same work at the same place. What is under consideration today is an enforcement directive to clarify how this new broadcasting directive should be understood. The size is today invited to accept a directive on 18 pages, where it is difficult to see which sentences clarify what. The basic uncertainty is not how the Norwegian magnificence understands the text of the directive, but how the European Court of Justice understands it. In all, the judges in 2007/2008 were based on the understanding of the fundamental principle of the Court of Justice laid down in the EU Treaty from 1957 to 2007, and not on what was stated in the broadcasting directive. Can this happen again? Since the directive today fails in all its uncertainty and uncertainty is approved by Stortinget, we would be more sure if the EEA Agreement contained a withdrawal period that could be applied if the consequences of a legal act were significantly different from those envisaged when the acts were incorporated into the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e515	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e531	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that up to seven lines of reply are given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e540	Work clearance money was introduced in 2010 and replaced rehabilitation money, return money and time-limited unpaid pay. The new benefit should have the same target group as the three preceding benefits, but earlier and closer follow-up should lead to shorter periods of benefit compared to previous schemes. Although the Committee has already shared this description in the case, the entire Committee agrees that the aim of the introduction of the AAP was to help more people, both back to work more quickly and to dissatisfaction for those who are entitled to it, as the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV point out in their comments. But I'm going to focus on the majority position, as the committee is divided. We know that work is more than a job. It's a community to go to, friendship, lifelong learning and mastering. It's to be expected. Therefore, the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party, although the latter voted against the changes in the AAP, believes that it is so important that those who can work actually get to do so – and do so. We know from research, statistics and experience that the risk of not returning to work increases with the duration of absence. So the most unsocial thing we can do is not to change the welfare state's devices when we see that they don't work according to purpose. The scheme was set up as a temporary, temporary income hedge while the recipient is in a clearing process, which also means that if the course is completed without the recipient being prepared for disability benefit or on the way into work, many will leave the scheme. The vast majority are now cleared up more quickly if they are entitled to disability benefits or are given measures and extended the opportunity to return to work. However, a minority also withdraws from the scheme, without a decision on disability benefits or further measures. This is not new, but by clarifying the disease requirement, which disappeared on the road from the previous three benefits to the introduction of the AAP, there are now more people who are no longer qualified to the scheme and are largely out of work and therefore should not have disability benefits. Nav continues to have a duty to help, through labour-oriented measures and social assistance to those who qualify for it. So we see a temporary increase in those who go from AAP to social assistance. The 2015 evaluation of the scheme showed that none of the 2010 targets had been met. Researchers from SINTEF and the National Centre for Occupational Rehabilitation concluded that Nav had not been allocated enough resources by the previous government for early and close follow-up. At the same time, they thought that the AAP now included more than it should, among other things. because the disease requirement had been weakened in the transition from the three previous benefits to the AAP scheme. Thus, several groups that had not previously been included entered into a scheme that was not necessarily intended for them, and that needed a different follow-up than the AAP scheme was intended to provide. Their clear recommendation was that the legislation had to be applied more stringently, also because several of these groups could receive better and more adapted help elsewhere. The Sintef report mentions, inter alia: young users with no serious illness, whom they believe could be better followed up by obligation of activity and social assistance. Measures for rehabilitation after illness or return to work were also not useful for users with very poor language skills or users with serious drug problems. Conflicts in the workplace were cited as a basis for health care, which may be very understandable, but which are not resolved by the redundancy allowance for which it was intended, namely help to return to work or to disability. It is not social to extend and erode schemes so that scarce resources are used on other than the scheme intended. This weakens the measures, because they are applied to others other than those adapted to them. This weakens Nav, because the resources intended for someone have to be used on more. And not least, it weakens the confidence of our welfare state – first because the objectives are not achieved, then when we have to make the necessary changes to target the scheme better, and when many who have previously received suddenly fall outside. It's clear it creates anxiety, anger, and frustration, especially when many experience that the promises that were given about past and closer follow-up were broken. This does not mean that the changes are wrong, but that the changes were necessary so that no more would end up in the same situation over time. Nav has been strengthened, there are better measures for many, while there is no change in the qualification for disability benefit, where those in need of help receive help. This is why the majority rejects the proposals that reverse the necessary changes in redundancy benefits, so that this is what it was meant to be: a targeted temporary security of income with rapid and close follow-up to help people return to their working life or to dissatisfaction for those who qualify for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e561	Thank you to the President-in-Office for her work on the matter. Unfortunately, there is little reason to thank us more for us as proposers, but neither, and that is the most important thing, for the sick and injured as the last and a half year has been thrown out of work relief, without anything else to go to than uncertainty and despair, and who meet a closed door at the Nav office: There is nothing for you to pick up, you may need social assistance, but not if you have a home or a car you can sell. Use up what you have of savings first, and we'll see. Oh, do you have a spouse? No, then you can just forget it, then you have nothing to do here. Do you need support to pay for the company to your son, you say? Yes, we can assess that, but he got a sum of money in gift. You have to use it first. The last one is a true story. The boy had to pay his own company with the money he received for the confirmation. Such demands are now made by the Norwegian welfare society to those who already have at least one. Work clearance money has never been meant to be anything but a temporary benefit, excuses the Council of State and the majority of the population – the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and the Christian People’s Party. No, it doesn't, it's something everyone knows. However, until 1 January 2018, the temporary period has had a purpose, not primarily until a certain date, but until one of two – work or social security was completed. It was four years with the possibility of extension as needed, with a reciprocity of rights and obligations between Nav and the individual. Now that reciprocity is gone. The lack of capacity of the hub or healthcare system does not matter. Four years has become three. Revalidation is difficult to obtain, the one-year quarantine has been introduced, including for those in the middle of a clearance cycle. The logic that is difficult to grasp here is that when you are thrown out of one temporary benefit, you are thrown right into another, for social assistance is also a temporary benefit, in fact, intended to be even more temporary than job redundancy. The fact that it is worse for the user is obviously of secondary importance, because it is cheaper for the public. And it's the cheapest thing to do when you can refer people to private care. Sustainable well-being, it's called when Erna Solberg and Siv Jensen talk. To borrow an expression from Kvistad in VG: Government and large-scale numbers are ‘to the right of reality’. Poverty, it's called in good Norwegian, and it's a wild policy. The intention sanctifies the means, says an old word that no one will entirely acknowledge. But the cuts have to serve the good thing – more at work. The number of recipients of redundancy benefits is reduced in all age groups. The largest reduction is in the 40–49 age group, the best working-age population. But are there others who come to work? No, so far there are no signs that this has happened. The only thing that's happened so far is that there's been more in social security, more in social assistance, more in bar. According to Nav's own figures, the proportion previously recorded as employees after withdrawal from the redundancy allowance has been quite stable, but there is a clear decrease during 2018, from 43 pst. to 38 pst. The share that goes to disability increased by 3 percentage points. It doesn't have to be negative. Work clearance is also a matter of clarification for social security. If people who obviously need social security could get it faster, it's actually in line with the intention of the work-clearance system. But what should really be a cause for concern is that, in 2018, from the imposition of sanctions, we see a relatively large increase of 5.5 percentage points in the proportion registered with a continuing decline in working capacity, even though they are without the AAP. In addition, the trend is increasing through 2018. So maybe there was something the Council of State and the right-wing government forgot in their eagerness to cut in the fear of the people, because it's not just in the redundancy it's cut. The tax havens in the upper part of the income scale must be financed, and everything cannot be taken from our common pension fund alone – after all, there is a limit, even for Siv Jensen. But what was it you forgot? Maybe something as simple as that we're talking about sick people who can't be investigated in a coward, but who need time, often because it's Nav himself who needs time, or the health care that needs time, not because the individual begs or refuses, not because it's late people who don't want to work, but people who would give anything to avoid being sick. Because that's the way we are, everyone -- none of us choose to get sick, but we can all get sick. That is why we pay to the social security system, so that the community can be there if the need arises. Then it's not possible just to throw people out to nothing. It's urgent to reverse the changes. The most important thing now is to get the exception back and remove quarantine quickly, before even more is pushed out. Then I take up the suggestions that the Workers' Party is promoting, partly with the Center Party and SV, and partly with SV. I also have an explanation of vote on proposal No. 10th@item: inlistbox The Labour Party is not included in proposal No. 10, because we think it's covered by proposal No. 3 and 4. But whose proposal No. 10 is maintained, we also vote for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e582	The representative Lise Christoffersen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e587	Recently, there has been a debate on really two different issues. One debate is that some users have ended up in redundancy payments without a specific decision in advance. Of course that's not how it should be – it shouldn't be like that. This has therefore been addressed in particular through increased Nav’s procedural capacity. I want to commend the Council of State for taking those steps, and we now see the results of it – it's becoming less and less so. The second debate is on whether the legislation for obtaining redundancies and any extension of redundancies has become too strict since the entry into force of the new rules in 2018, following a decision in this Chamber by, inter alia, Right, Advance Party and Left. For me, it is clear that we have seen a series of basic material that tells us that it was both right and necessary to tighten up a practice that was making redundancy money a lasting performance, and eroding the purpose of a faster and more effective clearance against work or disability. Many have been given and retained the AAP for years, and we have seen several examples showing that clarification has been absolutely necessary, as more parties, including those against today, have previously acknowledged the importance of. Clearance of work is and has always been intended as a temporary benefit for those who have reduced their working capacity by at least 50 pst on grounds of illness, injury or lye. A prerequisite for the introduction of redundancy payments was that the scheme should have the same target group as the three benefits it replaced. The health requirements of previous performances were somewhat different and the health requirements on which return payments were based were chosen, namely that health problems should be a significant contributory cause of work disability. For the other two benefits, there were somewhat higher requirements, one of which required health problems to be the main cause of disability. In Sintef’s evaluation of the functioning of redundancy benefits, it was found that more groups than those previously received the three old benefits had been involved in redundancy benefits. It was e.g. young people without work experience, drug users and immigrants with weak Norwegian skills. Sintef considered that if they did not receive redundancy benefits, they would be beneficiaries of social assistance, participants in the qualification programme or would be without their own income. SINTEF also surveyed what the Nav staff working with redundancy money meant about the users of the AAP in 2014. They were asked if they thought these users would have better opportunities to qualify for employment if they had not been granted the AAP. About one in three supervisors answered yes to this question. In the Sintef report on Nav staff assessments, we can also read: ‘Others say that there are often other things behind, such as work conflicts that have given the employee mental challenges. Perhaps the ability to work is not really reduced by more than 50% and perhaps it is very important to be strict on the entry criterion so that the user does not become passive over a long period of time:» If the reduced working capacity is not significantly due to health-related conditions, such as: mastering problems, unemployment or economic or social problems, are not benefits in kind. The AAP is also not a general study aid scheme. We have to make sure that the different performances are used correctly. We need to take care of those who have significant health challenges, those who lack language, have easier mental health problems or are unemployed for other reasons, but not all are required to have redundancy benefits. In order for assistance to be both targeted and good, it must be adapted to individual challenges, but both performance and follow-up must be correct. It's for the benefit of the individual.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e609	I thank the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party for promoting this matter. This is true of many tens of thousands of people. This is a very important safety network and there is an important period for clarifying future working capacity. This is demanding, and there is a vulnerable time for those who have the financial security through redundancy payments. It takes time and requires many professionals to be involved in clarifying the future ability of people to work. The majority of the population tightened the code for redundancy payments as of 1 January 2018. There have been strong reactions because many have come into a bad situation, which has become the beneficiary of social support. No one said it was meant to be. The centre party agreed – and agrees – that there should be three years instead of four years, because it is important that one does not spend too long on clarification. But when we said that, it took a lot of effort from the local Nav offices in municipalities and urban areas, so that they did the job with the professionals. It hasn't happened. The centre party further stated at the time that one should not have a limited duration of derogation from the three-year rule, and that the conditions for exemption had to be addressed by Nav locally, especially in the case of demanding health challenges, and when it comes to young people who need time to get to work by finding a sea. What is now most important for the Center Party, as well as what we said at the time, is to strengthen the first line in Nav, so that we can move more professionals from the special departments to the municipal and urban hubs, and that those professionals get more responsibility and authority. Today’s professionals assisting the AAP participants have far too many people to assist. I would like to draw attention to the model that is so well known as ‘Supported Employment’, which has been used in relation to AAP participants who suffer from mental illness. It has been a great success because you have far fewer people to assist. One is down there in about 20 people per employee. That's what we have to do, because here we are facing people who need a complete and great effort. Then we need professionals who can reach out, who can do a good job. A clarification of working ability will in many cases lead to a result of disability. Therefore, we in Stortinget must look into the eyes that a faster clarification will mean that we get more disability pensioners. That's right, that's worth it, and that's the way we have to do it in this process. Then it's those who have partial ability to work. It's a big challenge, because we can figure out that someone has partial work skills, but where are the jobs for these people? Where is the demand for these people? This isn't good enough; this is economics. Demand has to be created here, it has to be interesting for employers to hire. As in the gender equality debate, we need to assess regulatory provisions and instruments that ensure that we get to it. The centre batch is not foreign here to introduce quota requirements, e.g. – 10 pst allowance. in the public sector. I visited Health Bergen yesterday and was in the kitchen and laundry. There was no problem for them at 10 pst. of the employees were people with partial working capacity. They paid for the ability to work, and then Nav paid for the working capacity that was left, up to 100 pst. So this would work. There is demand that needs to be, and here I think the government has largely failed, for an attempt by the local Nav offices to get these people to work, but there is no demand, and then there is not enough demand. Then this becomes so heavy that it stops, and there are a number of different measures that you should go through, and that people just shake their heads off – this is unwise. In conclusion, yes, this should be a temporary safety net, but with co-human rules. Social support is not a permanent scheme and should not be left to private support. We can't do that in today's Norway. We need dignity in our safety net. I would then like to address the proposals of the Senterpartiet alone, and the proposal we have with SV. We also support the proposal No. 1-3, which we promote together with the Workers' Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e632	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e637	Here we have a debate about a policy that has turned out quite wrong. I would like to believe that the goal of the changes made by the government in the rules for redundancy payments is to get more clarifications done more quickly. But then they chose to ignore our clear warnings about the big traps that we saw in what they said. The result is a system that may clarify something faster, and a massive transition to the municipal social budget or NOK 0 in disbursement – poverty and insecurity. I can understand the desire to clarify people more quickly, but here the government has done too much wrong, and at the wrong end – the easy end of the problem. In order to get people to know more quickly, you need to look at the clarification itself, not the payout. It's the waiting lists that take time. There is a waiting list in the specialist services and the health system, and there is a waiting list for action in Nav. A sick individual cannot be punished when it is the Nav system that needs to be improved. Sick and incapacitated peoples to be subject to popular fear have been regularly frozen out of the schemes that we have boasted of for decades. People have been frozen out of popular fear, which aims to provide economic security by securing income and compensating for the specific costs of unemployment, maternity and maternity, maternity care for children, sickness and injury, disability, old age and death. Social security is no longer a real security. In the last year, I've been talking to a lot of people who have been in a completely hopeless situation, many who are terrified of what happens to their lives when the redundancy money ends. I've been talking to people who have worked very few years ago, but who now still have up to NOK 0 in income. Several of them were sitting here at the gallery today. One of them has had to hand over his 11-year-old son to the Child Welfare Service because of too much financial uncertainty about redundancy money. People who have worked and started society as teachers, mechanics and nurses and paid their taxes for a few years suddenly stand completely without certainty. They have been compulsory members of a common insurance fund for disability. It can't possibly be right how it's done today. In the last couple of years, there are a lot of people who have been denied leave from Nav. Nav's own case handlers in the first line see the individual and the specific situation and open up to disability. But on the other hand, the application is rejected, for totally unethical reasons, by another Nav department. Nav's work and performances dominate other parts of Nav, and they override the LAG and specialist services, without seeing the consequences for those who are sent out into poverty. It is not surprising that Nav gets so much criticism when they counter this way, and this has to be fixed quite quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e658	If we are to succeed with the welfare state in the future, we are completely dependent on trust. Everyone should know that no matter what happens, there is a safety net and a mechanism to ensure that you do not go down. People must be able to trust it. Otherwise we get a society we don't recognize. Therefore, I find the errors that have occurred in the transition to new AAP rules disappointing. Nav hasn't done his job here. People have been sent out of an arrangement before the goal of the arrangement, namely clarification, is fulfilled. It is too bad and completely contrary to the intention of the legislative changes, namely better follow-up. I think it was right to reduce the AAP scheme from four to three years. Clearance of work has always been meant to be a temporary scheme. People get into the AAP for different reasons. Some have been long-term sick and need to know if they are able to return to work — in whole or in part. Others have a working capacity that is reduced by at least 50 pst. and need help to get back to work. But no one shall remain on the AAP forever. The left puts people first. People are more important than systems. We believe that welfare schemes should be able to be adapted to the individual rather than to fit the individual into a standard form that is not really designed for anyone. This is precisely why the intention behind the changes in the AAP rules is so good. The changes in the rules required users to be followed up more closely. Now it is necessary to follow up each time a work-oriented measure or medical treatment is carried out. That's how the tailor left wants. I am also pleased with the other changes that have been made, which make it easier for those who are in the transition between redundancy payments and work. Now you can have the right to AAP while working up to 80 pst. for 12 months, twice as long as before. We've also doubled the time period you can receive the AAP as a job seeker, from three to six months. The rules for the AAP have been resolved so that Nav has not had to work effectively enough with clarification. This has led to people having to go on temporary benefits unnecessarily for years. That's what we want to change now. Of course, it has been socio-economically unwise, but most of all sin for the individual. Many people have the goal of getting back to work, and we know that the longer you're away from work, the less likely it is that you can get back. The State should not be the driver of such a mechanism. It's in everyone's interest to clarify quickly. The stories of those who have fallen victim to a system that does not work make an impression. During the transition to new rules, Nav has had too little capacity and the queues have accumulated. Unfortunately, this has led to some losing their redundancy money before they have been clarified. I am pleased that the Minister of Labour has taken this seriously, and that we are now putting 15 million. kr i revised appeal management budget in Nav. Now we have to get the cows down. We have to spend time looking at each individual human being and their situation, so that we can help those of us who need help, out to work or over to other arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e676	Then we have come to a demanding matter that engages many people, and to which there are strong feelings. In the Christian People's Party we have heard many stories that make impressions, and I have responded to most of the individuals and organized campaigns. It is good that today we get debaters and clarify the matter. Clearance of work is a temporary benefit which shall not exceed what is necessary to return the beneficiary to work or to clarify whether the conditions under which he is insured have been fulfilled. The Christian People's Party was not part of the majority when the changes were made in spring 2017. The option considered by the Christian People's Party to be the most balanced option was the one which also received the greatest support during the hearing, namely from 19 hearing bodies, including most municipalities, Nav offices, Specter, Works, YS and subsidized by the Joint Organisation of Disabled Persons and the Association of Norway's Disabled People's Association. The maximum duration of this solution was three years. Exceptions were not to be limited in time, but were to be tightened up. This proposal did not receive a majority. It is important to remember that the main picture has been that the AAP scheme has not led to a shorter duration of social security than was the case in the past, when the scheme consisted of three benefits: rehabilitation, back-up and temporary unpaid pay. One main problem seems to be that the follow-up of the individual has not been good enough. It's a goal that each one gets the follow-up they need to be clarified. It strongly wants the Christian People's Party to contribute. Those who meet the criteria for disability benefit will receive it, and those who are cleared for work will return to work. The sustainability of the welfare state and the welfare of future generations depend on us making sure that our systems work today. The duration of the performance and the extent of the exemption is a particularly important point in this case. The AAP period may not be so short that this leads to increased access and pressure on disability benefits, but such strict duration limits that it gives more disadvantaged people are not appropriate for anyone. On the other hand, the scheme should be temporarily more than in the case until 2018, which was four years of liberal exemption rules giving additional duration. The likelihood of transition to employment increases significantly as the maximum duration approaches. A tighter moss cycle can help to speed up the follow-up of the individual and start-up of the activity, which, in turn, can lead to a faster return to work. This has been and is the Christian People's Party's primary position. The opposition has loved to attack the Christian People's Party in this matter, and it has been predictable. There's two things to say about it. First, it is that government parties do not automatically form a majority of the opposition. The Christian People's Party is not a party that sits on the side anymore, but a responsible government party. That means we are steering by a common agreed platform with our government partners. It is an irony that this criticism comes from the Workers' Party and SV, when the Workers' Party directed its government partners for eight years. It's a little stupid for the debate that the opposition still expresses itself about the Christian People's Party as if it were an opposition party. We would rather be in government. Secondly, the changes have come into force by a majority without a Christian People's Party, and we must now have experience. The Christian People's Party is impatiently waiting for an evaluation that will provide us with a valuable knowledge base. The Christian People's Party will then make an opinion whether the changes have worked or not, and fight for a targeted system that is adapted to those who need it. Some say that the Christian People's Party has been unclear, but we have said this all spring. There are many people who would have wanted another outcome today, and we understand that. We have received many enquiries from people who experience the changes as very demanding, and that makes the impression on us. Nevertheless, we believe that it would be wrong to make changes based on a proposal from a representative who, with respect to reporting, is based on the opinion of the proposers of the situation rather than on a factual basis, which an evaluation could provide. That is why I also look forward to an ongoing government briefing in the future. The Christian People's Party will carefully assess the impact of the changes and welfare arrangements when the evaluation is available. Today's system was not the model of the Christian People's Party, and it would be irresponsible for us to change welfare benefits today without a sufficient factual basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e704	Thousands of people are now in a totally unsustainable situation because government policy has taken away from them the basis of life almost overnight. Some have been told that the work clearance money will disappear in three to four days, without notice. They end up social instead of getting help to get into work, they become social clients against their will because of government policies. The AAP should be a security of living while getting help and clarification. Now the government's tightening up that sick people instead become social clients. The government's policy appears to be a punishment for those who cannot work, and the restrictions affect people who are economically struggling and who have already fallen into income. You should know in this room that those who are on the AAP have two thirds of the income they had in the past. So they've lost one third of their income, and now they're losing the rest. Anniken Hauglie says she wants to avoid people falling into so-called passive social welfare races, but it's Anniken Hauglie who's been the passive one here. We hear stories from many who have been standing on the AAP for years, without hearing anything from Nav in all these years, and this is the political responsibility of Anniken Hauglie. She should have made sure that the AAP contributes to clarification, and then she cannot shift responsibility to the recipients and also punish them for not having been clarified. She can't push responsibility over to Nav either, because it's Anniken Hauglie who's cut in the appropriations for Nav, and the consequences of the cuts are obvious. Those who work in Nav say that it is an almost impossible task to follow up everyone within the new deadlines set. Action for AAP changes has documented how the changes affect people. They have documented that half of those who are now affected are families of children, that four out of ten fears that they must sell their home or move from the dwelling they rent, that nine out of ten have become sicker by the meeting with Nav. These are dramatic numbers. It shows that many of those who need the most help from the community notice the civil government’s hard drive on the body and realize that the government’s beautiful words that it is worth working, in practice means that it is going to punish itself to be sick. The Christian People's Party, the Left, the Advance Party and the Right should understand one thing: there are very few – not to say none – who are getting fresher from getting poorer. They just get poorer, and the way back to work becomes much longer. But one thing the government should have: they are good at punishment, not least with the introduction of a one-year withdrawal period before you can apply for the AAP again – even if you have not finished it. So in that year, you either have to sell everything you own, get social assistance, or beg money from family and friends. This collides with the purpose of the AAP scheme, which is to ensure the income of those who have reduced their working capacity due to illness or injury. When Anniken Hauglie was a health agency in Oslo, she said the following about the many people who were going to go to the AAP border, which was then four years old: "Unfortunately, we are dealing here with a government that neither recognizes the problem nor is able to do anything about it." It is a precise description of Anniken Hauglie's own government act as of today, which thus cuts to those who need the welfare state the most, and gives tax cuts to those who need money the least. Today, the government is voting down all the proposals for cleaning up and hiding behind them waiting for an evaluation. But people who have no income don't have time to wait. They need help from the community and deserve something quite different – and far better – than this government's unfair and brutal cut policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e719	When the AAP scheme was introduced in 2010, the aim was earlier and better follow-up and that more people should return to work more quickly. It didn't happen. The experience was that many went too long, and that exceptions from the maximum duration of four years were often used, despite the fact that in Ot.prp. No 4 for 2008-2009, it was considered that it should only be used where ‘in exceptional cases a limited extension of the period of decision must be possible’. The four-year period was not used well enough. There was a potential for closer, earlier and more targeted social welfare courses, but also more simultaneous implementation of labour-oriented activities and medical treatment. Of those who were entitled to the AAP in December 2016, 19 were pst. received the benefit for more than four years. One liberal practice may have helped many to walk for a long time without follow-up and clarification. It's not good, either for the individual or for society, and we know that the probability of getting back to work is reduced by the length of absence. There was therefore a need to clarify in the legislation who would be granted a derogation and to regulate the duration of the derogation. Although it is not always so easy to define ‘temporary’, I think it is right to impose a limit on how long you should be able to receive a temporary income hedge, as the AAP should be. Proposals will extend the use of the derogations. I believe that experience shows that we should not go back to previous practices. I believe that the adjustments made will lead to faster clarifications and increased transition to work. It is too early to say something about the overall effects of legislative changes — even if there should be unintended consequences of them. The Directorate has been mandated in its letter of assignment to evaluate the changes to the scheme, which will be properly briefed. The Government follows up the agreement with KS that municipalities should be compensated for by major additional costs as a result of the changes in the legislation. Analysis of the preliminary KOSTRA figures for 2018 shows that from 2017 to 2018, there was an increase of 1,900 people from the AAP to social assistance as a result of the regulatory changes. The Government therefore proposes to strengthen municipalities by 90 million in the revised national budget. kr. It is proposed to both introduce an activity right for persons in need of action and follow-up and increased requirements for the employment and welfare seat for the close follow-up of the recipients of the AAP. It is statutory for the recipients of the AAP to receive regular follow-up from the establishment. After 1 January 2018, the follow-up has been more adapted to the needs of the recipients and related to natural stop-points in the solstice cycle. I therefore see no need to legislate for a right to and obligation that is already statutory and that is also strengthened by the changes in the law. The follow-up is leading to the activities included in the activity plan, for which the contents may be influenced by the recipients. The changes in the rules of the AAP must also be seen in the context of other interventions that have been taken and to be taken: we have changed the qualification programme, we have introduced a more committed youth effort, and we have launched an inclusion tool. A new IA agreement is in place to reduce non-response and reduce sick leave. Limit of absence and improved training opportunities for adults are established. Multi-diagnosis package sequences particularly affected by women must now be established. The sum will strengthen the possibility of assistance and follow-up for those who have fallen out of or are at risk of falling out of work. I think we have a common ambition and a common commitment to help many of those who have fallen out of or are at risk of falling out of work, in a better way than we've done before. The evaluations just show that the old scheme that we had was not successful in that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e738	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e743	On 18 March this year, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Labour wrote a chronicle in the VG under the heading ‘We are there for those who need it the most’. During the powerful marking outside the Storting yesterday I spoke to a young lady, educated pharmacist, an education she could no longer use because of illness. She was thrown out of work clearance, not finished. For the time being, she lived on her own resources. That's the money she put back on on demand from the social office to sell her home. Before they were exhausted, she also received no social assistance. She has no spouse who can contribute with private support – she has nothing. We might agree that she is one of those who need it the most. In what way is the Council of State there for her?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e752	I have to ask for an understanding that it is difficult for me to go in and comment on individual matters that I do not know in any other way than the reference from the Parliamentary Chair. It is important for me to stress that of those who last year applied for an extension under the derogation, a large majority were granted an extended derogation. 66 pst. Got it. It shows that very many applicants for an extension under the derogation have received it. What we have been concerned about in the changes that have been made has been to ensure closer and earlier follow-up. That's why we made it a legal obligation to follow up at an earlier time – because we saw in the old scheme that many went for years without any kind of follow-up. We know that if you're out of work for a long time, the probability of getting back is minimal. I also mentioned several other measures that the government has taken, and the measures that we are going to take, precisely to ensure better follow-up of those who have not received good enough follow-up in the past, either by Nav or by the health services.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e761	I thank you for your answer. There's a lot one might think of persecuting, but I'd like to stay a little bit by the law of the etate's obligation to follow up. Under the red-green government, it was stated explicitly in the circular by if Nav did not fulfil the obligation, as they had then, it was a basis for people to get an extension. But the sitting government and the growing majority have said that there is no longer any reason for prolongation. How can the Council of State talk about the obligation and reciprocity of rights and obligations when it is in that way that it has consequences for one party, but not for the other?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e768	That's exactly why we said you should still be able to get an exception. In the past, the exemption provision was to be strictly applied. It didn't. However, exceptions can still be made, for example: if measures have been prevented from being implemented due to waiting time in treatment, investigation or other, or if training measures are involved. 66 pst. of those who applied for an extension of the derogation. There's no doubt – and I'll be the first to admit it, I've done it before – that when you change the rules, it's a demanding situation to be able to catch up with many of those who are of course affected by those changes. We have been concerned by the government both to strengthen Nav's procedural capacity and to contribute to Nav's ability to take internal action through training and other means, in order to capture those directly affected in the past. It is also important to mention that many of the changes we have made are also an extension of the scheme, by extending the time you can go to the AAP both while applying for a job and while trying to work – without losing the benefit.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e777	Here's so many statements that it's almost hard to pick which one to tackle. But I wonder if I should get hold of what the Council of State said that one has increased the processing capacity in Nav, because it was also the representative Wiborg inside his post. Then I have a question to the Council of State: in crowns and ears, how much has the government cut in Nav in so-called red tape and efficiency requirements during its government period, and how much has been spent on funds for increased procedural capacity? What I'm of course interested in knowing is the relationship between the two numbers, and I'm assuming that the council has the actual numbers under the skin.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e782	I don't have the exact number for the ABE cut in front of me, but it's true that we've had an efficiency cut that has essentially affected the administrative tasks. However, to the extent that year-on-year development is considered to be an indicator of resource use in Nav, we see that there are about as many year-olds now as it was last year. That's about. 250 more annual works in Nav now than it was in 2013. This means that much of the efficiency is not included in the reduction in annual work. It is extracted in other ways, including: through the large ICT bets, which have not least helped the Storting to provide money. When employees no longer need to punch manual forms, they can spend their time following users in a better way, not least through the projects that the representative Lundtegegen was in, the IPS projects, which are projects and ways of working on where employees have few clients to follow up, and which therefore also produce very good results.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e789	The facts in this case are that the restrictions lead to many becoming dependent on social assistance. No one's for it. As a municipal minister, Erna Solberg was given the reputation of being Jern-Erna. Then she wrote a book, and the book was called "Humans, Not Billions". The situation we're in now concerns a number of people. It's a little bit of money. The opposition is trying to act so that you can think again, think through what you're doing, and go through the issues that have led to people getting social help. The government answers that the municipalities will have an alms of 90 million. Add kr. One doesn't go to the bottom; one tries to patch a little bit on the municipal economy. Why can't government turn around, secure dignity and go through the issues that lead to social support?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e797	First of all, the municipalities do not get allies from the government. These are the estimated additional costs received by municipalities as a result of the increase. Nor is it new that you can go from AAP to social assistance. This has also happened in previous years, including the years when the representative Lundteg himself was in and out of office. I fully agree that it is not a desired situation for people to go to social assistance. We want you to get to work preferably if you can, if you like, if that's the right performance. The point of the changes is that too many people went for years without help and follow-up. I have received examples in recent months of people who have gone in 10, 15 and even 20 years on temporary benefits. Is that dignity? I mean, it's not. The AAP scheme is a system for obtaining annual decisions and for submitting notification forms every 14 days. If you're out of work and you can't work, I think it's bad luck that's right. But it is important to look at all the other initiatives and actions we are also taking, because everything is related to everything, as a former country mother so well expressed it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e806	Is it decent to bring people into social assistance? Is there anyone who says there's something a can accept as a solution? No, that's not it; there are no parties on the Stortinget that believe otherwise than that social assistance should be a transitional arrangement to anything else. But in practice, that's what becomes the system, and this has to be taken into account. The government won't. Another question: The Nav staff to do the job have too many to assist. Why can't the government give an instruction to move people from special departments to the first line – those who meet people – so that they get fewer, and those who meet people who are in a difficult situation are given authority to decide whether or not a get-off is granted, whether or not a get-off is granted?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e813	First of all, I just want to stress that receiving social assistance is completely legitimate and entirely right. It's not unworthy to receive social assistance. It's a legitimate right you have. That doesn't mean I want more people to receive it. That's the last security network we have, and we're also going to support and be concerned about that. To the number of clients per case manager: The number of clients per case manager has fallen significantly in recent years. If I do not remember correctly, there are 75 fewer clients per case manager now than they were a few years ago. It goes the right way, not least because we are able to digitise many of the routine tasks and release resources so that employees can spend time on users. There are as many employees now as there were last year, and 250 more employees than in 2013. Through the IPS model and other things, we provide case handlers with much more room for action and capacity to follow up those users who require the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e820	A 41-year-old woman is outnumbered health professionals. She lost work clearance money on 1 February 2018, while she was in the middle of treatment and distribution. She has three kids and a man. She's not entitled to social help because she has a husband. They now live five pieces of one income. Another 42-year-old woman lost the redundancy money on April 24, 2019, while she was stuck in the Nav system. Doctors and specialist health services have concluded that she has a serious ME degree. Nav overrides this because they think she's healthy. This lady is also not entitled to social assistance because of the marital care obligation. The family of four now lives on one income. Can the Council confirm that this is the intention of the government to change the rules in redundancy payments?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e827	As I have said in previous answers, there is already an exception clause today, and 66 pst. the applicants are granted a derogation after that provision. The derogations may be granted to persons who are being treated, who have waited a long time for treatment or who are undergoing training. If it is the case that a seriously ill patient who is being treated does not get an exception, it is difficult for me to explain why it is not the case, I do not know the matter in addition to what the representative Lerbreck says. We've been concerned about the changes we made, having some safety valves that go on the exception provisions and other things, to ensure that those who are unable to follow the plan the way you had first thought should be better captured. But once again, we have to go back to the starting point: why did we want to change this system? Well, because the old system showed that too many people went for years without help and follow-up, with the disadvantages it has for those who were there.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e832	The unworthy thing is that people are pressured into becoming social clients against their will. That's what's happening now, don't pretend otherwise. So we know that it happens because of a very rigid tightening of, among other things. the exemption provisions. Nest leader of NTL Nav, Torgeir Homme, wrote a little trick. He wrote the following: ‘With good exceptions, we can hold on to hope, and we can give the young person a chance. We can continue to work to qualify, improve the disease picture and have a plan for future work. There is no need to call for mathematical expertise to choose between two additional years on the AAP followed by 40 years on the one hand on the labour market, and two fewer years on the AAP and 40 years on the other on the other.» Can the Council of State respond to why she does not see the need for better exemptions that can ensure that more people come back to work, rather than get into disability for the rest of their lives?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e844	It's true that there are some more people who get into social assistance now than when the red-green government crashed, but we're obviously concerned that there's fewer coming over. I noticed that there was no concern at the time, and you can think about it. What we're looking at from the evaluations, and what we're looking at is that there are two main groups that dominate. It is young people with mild mental disorders and it is diffuse suffering. Both diagnostic groups are diagnostics where work and activity — or at least some activity — will be an important part of the treatment. This is exactly what the entire IPS methodology is based on: at some point in time, the health care system often gets short, and then there may be work and activity that can help you actually get better. We also see that many people lack skills in education, and that is also why we have significantly improved their skills at the same time – in the education sector, but also in Nav.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e851	Replicate cord shift complete. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e859	I must admit that when I listen to this debate, I can be nothing but quite furious. This case is about individuals who have evil and difficult fates, and we have a government council that says that she cannot relate to the individual fates – the consequences of her own policy. The Council of State is also responsible for the auxiliary equipment that should have provided these people with help, clarification of either work or disability, and did not go beyond what is necessary. But was it at the end the Council of State began? No, the Council of State began in the usual Right-End, assuming that people who are struggling and having it difficult, have really a little hurt at will, and that they have to be punished with further poverty, so that they will certainly do more. But it's not like that. Poverty leads to one thing: difficult lives and more sickness. That's what you're harvesting now, and it's not the government that's harvesting it – it's what the individual creatures that are being hit do. I also want to say something to the Christian People's Party, which is standing up here and makes it sound like it's those who are suffering today: the people who have told us about their destiny are not emotions – it's hard facts. And the Christian People's Party has to deal with the facts that this is all about, and take the responsibility that they have for joining the government's poverty line and not a real line of work that could have been possible. I also hear the Council say that the exceptions are being used. She had a claim about a percentage for how many there were that had been granted exceptions, which are not close to the numbers we've seen. The numbers that I've got show that it's 8 pst. which was granted in 2018, e.g. So I'm asking the council to document their numbers. Reality is at least that many of the people who are still undeclared, neither healthy nor for work, are now sent to poverty. Some of them end up in social assistance. There are very strict rules, and it is also a regulation for which the Council of State, as a member of the Government, is responsible. She knows well that these rules require people to clean up for the little you have before you get help. Many others have been sent to private care. In addition to this, these rules provide for a kind of time limit for disease. Illness can pass. Sometimes it takes years, and then it helps. But what the government is doing is harming people.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e874	Even I have little self-experience with Nav. Last year I had to have the help of both my partner and competent employees at Stortinget when I was applying for parental leave. It probably says more about me than about the Nav system. But one who has experience in the Nav system is my neighbor, Thomas. He wrote about his experiences in Dagbladet on April 24. He addressed himself directly to Prime Minister Erna Solberg and the government. I would like to read out parts of Thomas' articles: ‘Your government has created a welfare system that now acts as a bond. The product you produce is poverty. The new tightening has given us a system in which we need a Bachelor of Law in order to get the help we're entitled to. Where people with chronic disorders, such as rheumatism or trauma, are thrown out because the disease takes too long to treat.» And on the other hand, ‘Reducing human stability and safety has not led to further work, but many have reported the same experience as I have had; all treatment providers report that this has led to a deterioration in health and has led people no longer to the possibility of returning to work, no more.’ And on the other hand, ‘Instead of cutting maximum time, you should use these billions to get people fully identified. Put the money in several case handlers so that there is closer follow-up, put together interdisciplinary teams that can discuss what is the right investigation at an early stage, and use the municipalities more closely to work practices when they in any case pay social assistance. Let me be investigated at the time I need, with a system that is funded so that this can be done effectively. That way, I can get out of a system you've created." I hope that the Prime Minister and the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs will read these speeches from the people of despair and will soon realize that politics is making people sicker and taking them further away from the labour market. My neighbor Thomas’ partner has cerebral paresis. He already works full-time, which is demanding enough with his health. He is now applying for part-time jobs as well, because the AAP cuts make his income not enough to cover the monthly housing costs. They're in danger of having to sell the apartment. The result of this policy is increased differences, more bureaucracy, less trust and lost opportunities. I'd like to remind you of mountain-wet rule No. 8: “Turn around in time, there is no shame in turning.”
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e902	It is important that everyone who can and wants to work should get a job. At the same time, we have to make sure that we have good arrangements for those who cannot work or who need help to get into work. Through inclusion and new skills policies, the government will ensure that people are not pushed out of the labour market and that more are included. Unemployment benefits should provide safe income for people while receiving active treatment, participate in a job-oriented action or receive other follow-up in order to obtain or maintain work. The change that was made would distort the use of resources from social welfare management to clarification and follow-up, and turn the focus from which the individual has the right to income protection, to which employment opportunities and the actions and services each individual has the right to. The longer a person is away from work, the less likely he is to be able to get back to work. It is therefore an advantage for the individual that the period away from work will be as short as possible. Early follow-up and good dialogue are essential to ensure this, and in the old scheme too many were subject to the exceptions. As a result, they remained standing for a long time without both follow-up and clarification. It creates exclusion, not inclusion. The inclusion virtue is about seeing opportunities. We have to work so that people don't get sick out of work, and we help those who have the opportunity to work. It has been important to limit the duration of a temporary hedge of income such as the AAP. For those who are permanently ill, there is disability that applies; for others, there may be work. It is an objective to be able to participate in the labour market as much as possible, and therefore the mechanisms of the instruments are essential. We have many tools to achieve the target of more at work and fewer health-related benefits. Nav offices have gained a wider range of professional environments – there have been more employees when comparing 2013 with 2018, and they also work smarter because of digitisation. The action system has also been simplified and made more flexible. In addition, a youth effort has been put in place to deliver good results, while at the same time strengthening cooperation between Nav and the business community. Individual job support has proved to be a good measure, where the use of ordinary jobs, integration of health and occupational rehabilitation services and close individual follow-up of users are central. Furthermore, the new IA agreement has become general and is now taking place throughout the working life with the testing of new instruments. The right and government inclusion rates have ambitious objectives of including more people in work, and the social partners contribute to this work. The goal must be that everyone who can and will work should work, and that we have good arrangements for those who fall outside. But it must always pay off to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e918	It's time for pure words. That's a lot of nice talk, but what's the reality, what's going on here in the country now? Well, we have a government that gives the rich everything they point to, and at the same time has the stomach to send parts of the bill to those who have the least. The cuts we're discussing today are a conscious and wanting policy, and no one can talk away from the consequences of it. It is beyond my ability to understand that, in the wish that no one should be on redundancy payments for a long time, it has become acceptable for people to be stuck on social assistance instead – for that is the consequence. Before Christmas SV 14 suggested here in Stortinget to identify how the many different groups that are exposed to brutal, unsocial cuts by this government have gone. The civilians voted to investigate how it has gone. But when it comes to redundancy, we know a lot, because so many people have told us. They told the media, they told us in the opposition, they demonstrated yesterday, and some of them are here today. We know, and the only responsibility for the Storting is to act. We're not just looking at all of the individual issues, we're looking at the numbers in the municipalities, where the social aid budgets are growing as a result of these cuts. And we see that the government's method is in swing: instead of solving a problem, that too many people waited too long for help, they hide the problem by easing people out of the system. Instead of following people, you give up people. The reality is that today we are in a situation where many people are put on a bar and left to social assistance or to the family, to support themselves. It's a miserable solution for the individual, and it's a bad solution for society. We must make a settlement with the suspicion and moralism that so often lies under the poverty debate in Norway. It's not like people don't want to work. It's not like people don't want to make an effort. That's why the solution, every time we have a problem with people standing outside, can't be to make people poor. Poverty makes no healthy, poverty gives no job. I think it might also be worth reminding that when this matter came to the hearing of the Labour and Social Committee, the action group was initially not allowed to participate. SV created a separate hearing, which did not come to the Progress Party. I registered yesterday that there was a great deal of unrest in the Advancement Party because the tobacco capital had not been allowed to be consulted on another matter, and then I think who you are listening to says a lot about where you stand. [[The President clubs.]] The only responsibility is to stop these cuts.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e931	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e936	When the revised national budget was presented, Siv Jensen said that all the large numbers are heading in the right direction, so now Gahr Støre has nothing to criticize us for. “Such is the talk of a self-fulfilling government. In the revised budget we could see interesting numbers. The cost of redundancy payments goes down, the cost of redundancy payments goes up. In these weeks that have gone by, we've met the individuals behind these numbers -- some of them are here today -- and they've told strong stories that in the middle of a race on their way to work, as they want, being stopped, losing their rights, becoming dependent on family and others who can support them. It's a development if Siv Jensen says that now everything is going so much better – we've heard it before from bourgeois governments – that is very thoughtful. The council says the goal is to capture the targets. But what we've been shown is that a lot of people don't get caught. On the contrary, they are caught in poverty, which they do not get out of. This is serious and this is not what Norway should be like in 2019. It reinforces the picture of why we are getting increasing differences, why we are getting a sense of poverty in our country as well. Then I want to say at the end now: the council says there's nothing wrong with being on social assistance. No, it must be said to the people who make the decision. What we see of many of the cuts of government going through is that they end up somewhere – either in the families who have to take care of those who lose rights, or very many of them end up in the municipalities. The municipalities get the last responsibility, and it gets hard for them to bear. There is a bad management of the way Norway should go. It should be a goal to prevent people from ending up on social assistance, getting into work, getting their status assessed, can contribute. So I want to say one last thing: when this proposal came, about the tightening up, the Christian People's Party voted against this proposal. I wonder how the Christian People's Party reflects today. They should say that the consequence of going to government with the Advance Party and the Right is this, and we regret that. It would have been honest. It is not desirable not to be able to make changes, it is not desirable to try to close these holes in order to prevent the evolution we see. But they look down. I believe that is speaking for a party that has made a wrong choice and that meets itself in the door in an area where they should preferably be on the other side.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e949	Speaking of self-satisfied government: During the previous government with the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV, about 70,000 people were at risk of losing their rights to them as they were in the process of reaching a maximum limit of four years in 2013 without having received the rapid and close follow-up that the Red-Greens had promised. When the then Minister of Labour, Anniken Huitfeldt of the Workers' Party, was confronted with this, she admitted that in the spring of 2014, a so-called hump effect could occur. That's what the red-greens called those sitting in the gallery today. They're talking about dignity in the hall. When they put themselves in government, they talked about the hump effect. With the government change, most of the work clearance money was passed on beyond the intention of the scheme while we evaluated what was going wrong. We changed the rules on the clearing money because the scheme didn't work. Now, the scheme is more focused, so that people, as the evaluation showed, can get better help and support through other schemes, and not be shifted into redundancy and out of work. This government has done a lot to close the holes in the system the previous government left behind. Hospital cows increased under Minister of Health Gahr Støre, but are now reduced and thus also time for treatment. The new agreements on inclusive working life ensure that not only the IA companies, but the entire working life, have access to the resources of work centres. We target efforts against sectors and sectors that have the potential to reduce sick leave and non-response through sectoral programmes. We are trying out skills measures for long-term sick people who are unable to return to their former employer because of illness or injury. This comes at the top of early school interventions and the introduction of a threshold of absenteeism to prevent young people from falling outside and the introduction of an activity obligation for young people under 30 years of age on social assistance. We have reduced the age limit of the qualification programme to 18 years for those with a lack of skills, escalated wage subsidies for disabled workers and strengthened individual job support for those who are struggling with mental and/or drug problems – just to mention something. It is not a measure, a scheme, that contributes to inclusion, but permanent sick people are now more quickly given the right to disability benefits. There was also some of the things we agreed that was the purpose of work clearance money, and closer and faster follow-up. Nav continues to have an obligation to help those who do not qualify for the AAP with employment and social assistance. We have also extended the AAP and extended the period that people can try to work, or seek work without losing their rights. And the government's goal is for the state to employ at least 5 pst. with impaired functioning or holes in the CV. It creates the demand that the representative Lundtegen had in mind. We know that a lot remains to include more people in the world of work. But now that the government has been sitting for six years, the unemployment rate is going down and employment is going up. There is good hope that more people will have the opportunity to come into or return to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e964	The previous government didn't do a good enough job for people with redundancy pay. It's something that everyone could see. We got a lot of stories. It was said from now on. We can now learn from the mistakes that were made at the time, the mistakes that are being made now, or we can continue. The representative Sigbjørn Tuskedal told of the Christian People's Party's position, with three years as a general rule, which is in line with the view of the Center Party. I also understood the contributions of the Christian People's Party so that a desired exception that was not limited in time – so the exceptions should not be so short that they created problems in getting clarification. This was and is the Christian People's Party's position, what is here called their primary position. What is then the challenge is how the Christian People's Party acts in the Storting. Do you act in line with this, in line with what should be the experience, or do you act in such a way that the Christian People's Party in the Great Britain enters the government fold anyway? It wasn't supposed to be that the new government was going to act so squarely in Stortinget with its representatives as before. We were promised that. One should be able to correct the course when we were here. Here are the consequences for people, really vulnerable groups. The appropriations are limited and, nevertheless, it seems that the Christian People's Party and the other government parties vote against the proposal that the Central Party shares with the SV, proposal No. 10, where one suggests going through the cases to bring about a change for the people who here feel that one is exposed to a policy that is wrong. This has to be done in the short term. Furthermore, I just want to say that getting demand for these people with partial working skills is not a smart fix. To say that one should hire 5 pst. of his new employees with holes in the CV, that then creates a sort of order on this, as the representative Heidi Nordby Lunde said – no, it is not that simple. Active measures are needed to ensure that individual enterprises find it economically interesting to do so. There has to be a demand. There has to be a craving for these people, because it will give a rich and versatile working life that is in line with what is actually happening in Norway, namely that we have many people who have partial working capacity. They must be allowed to use that working capacity, and then they must get employers who are interested in using them.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e975	You say one thing and do what creates the opposite result, in this case. You talk about inclusion and create exclusion. It is a reality that the restrictions that are now being made make fewer people secure income and fewer are going to be followed up in order to get to work. Maybe even worse is that they won't even be allowed to be cleared for disability. Many of those who are now thrown out of the scheme are not clear, and then Nav says no to determine whether they should have disability benefits. Some of them should have it. It has not been good that people have been on this scheme for many years without an investigation. The narrow passage into the laxity has been very, very tight for many years, despite what the government party says. You do not get disability benefit in Norway without needing it. There are some of those who are now put to nothing, who should have had a disability, so they do not have access to it – a benefit that is right in Norway if you cannot work. Yes, they should at least wait an entire year before they are allowed to get back into this system that has the ability to clarify them. And where are they going to be? Well, they're going to go to social assistance or the qualification program. I've been very pleased with the qualification program. The problem is that it is almost not used, and now the social assistance costs of municipalities are increasing significantly, much more than the government has committed to the revision. And it's not just in this area that the government has tightened in. The housing allowance is now the same as it was in 2009. There are almost 50,000 people who have been thrown out of the housing support system, despite the fact that we have become more than half a million more people, and that the differences are increasing in this country. So we've got more people with low and very low incomes who are poor. It's the same people who are now going to fight about these heads and get help from the Nav municipality, and they're going to have a duty of activity there. So now the municipalities, which have not been given the resources to do this, have to do what Nav has not done and for which the government and the state are responsible. This is a bad change. It doesn't get people to work. It puts sick people on the bar, and it does not help anyone into work.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e986	Yesterday there was a demonstration in front of the Storting. It was a sign against poverty. In one of the world's best countries to live in, it's so that those who need the most help from the community are forested out. It applies to both those who have worked a whole life, and to young people who are forced on disability and social assistance. The Council of State here says that it is not unworthy to stand on social assistance. No, the unworthy thing is that the government's policy pushes people into it. Almost half of those who lost the AAP are child families. The number of people entering the AAP was reduced by nearly 17 000 people last year, and according to Nav, over 3000 more people went into social assistance compared to the previous year. In addition, there are those who do not need social assistance and who have to support themselves. The government has made it clear that they do not consider reversing the contractions, but according to a report prepared by the debtor, nine out of ten of those who have lost the redundancy money have been much more vulnerable to the economic situation. It shows that what happens is also bad health policy. It often applies to people who have complex conditions, which are difficult to clarify. I want to say, as Audun Lysbakken said from the pulpit: poverty does no good, and poverty gives no job either. I hear that the Christian People's Party says from the Chair that the matter is high on the agenda of the party, but that they want to wait for an evaluation report from Nav – but we know enough about this matter now. We are aware that the problem has not been raised in the Granavolden platform. It cannot be that the Christian People's Party, by signing on to the platform, has also signed on to support this government's poverty line. Nor can it be that because one has been a so-called responsible government party, one accepts that one had more power over politics in important Christian People's Party cases when one was outside government than one has when in government. For the Centre Party, it is important that most people are able to participate in the labour market. It is also a good health policy. It's about having a health-promoting society, and then people have to get a real ability to do it. Nav needs to help them do that. It's important, so one prevents people from perhaps losing touch with the world of work – including in all arsenals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e999	Now there are quite an unlikely number of people who have had major problems with the poverty of this policy. Yesterday I got over 38 000 signatures against these changes in work clearance money. In addition to this, my Facebook is full of individual cases of people who have exposed themselves to society to show the disastrous consequences of government policy. I'm forced to include here in this room example of this: Women, 48 years old, lost work clearance money without notice 2 February 2018. Only four months after the work rights in which she stood were stopped by Nav, she was given a decision to stop measures and stop work clearance money. She thus had to state her permanent position as a teacher in the municipality. This woman is now a single caregiver and has been without income for 15 months. After the withdrawal period of 52 weeks, she received new work clearances under the same conditions as before. There is no economic upswing for this, and it can demonstrate disability during this withdrawal period. There's as many cases as this is happening out there right now. Yesterday it was approx. 350 people who met outside of Stortinget, and there are 350 of them who are a bit fresher and can stand outside. Think of all those who are so sick or so poor that they can't get to Oslo to demonstrate. They're even more of them. I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to point out that even though there is a lot of suffocation on Nav, they are not added to Nav to do a bad job. I know they're doing the best they can, but it's the system and the rules that they're working on, that's not working. They added in Nav also strongly protested against these changes. The government is now leading a policy where they don't listen to people who are involved, they don't listen to people who are working with these changes. It is necessary to go wrong. The government must now intervene in this failed policy. It is not good enough to rely on the community's social services and private support.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e1012	I just wanted to draw another drawing to respond to what the representative Tuskedal said in his speech, because he appeared as – what to say – something ‘vonbrotten’ about the Christian People's Party getting criticism from the opposition. Then he gave a little talk about what it means to be a responsible party. And it's interesting to discuss it -- what does it really mean to be a responsible party? In this case, I believe that it will mean taking the extreme seriousness of the uprising against these cuts that we are now seeing, and all the simple stories that show that the system is not working, and then be honest about it, even if you have not got a say in the government, and clearly on which side you are standing on. What's responsible is to fight for the thousands hit by these cuts. And then the question is why Christian People's Party has not prioritised it. I see that the Christian People's Party, when they now attack the opposition, is attacking those of us who stand for the Christian People's Party in actuality, defending those who promote an unsolidarian policy that the Christian People's Party is apparently opposed to. It is only necessary then to establish the following: It is also that the Christian People's Party is behind the government's policy, both the mild gifts to the billionaires and the tough cuts against the poor and sick. There is a lot to say about it, but ‘responsible’ is not the first word I come up with. The responsible person will be to take up the fight against these cuts. I think we've been very clearly documented lately why it's necessary, and why the Christian People's Party instead of attacking the opposition should work to make its own government turn around.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e1019	Several things have been said that deserve a comment, but it has also been said a little wrong things from this pulpit. The representative Karin Andersen was quite honest that the Socialist Left Party, for example. is contrary to the obligation of activity for young social assistance recipients, even though we know that it has worked well. That's what Nav employees say, and that's what users say themselves. Then she also brought a wrong thing about any cuts in the housing support etc. The housing aid is known as a rights-based scheme, so when households e.g. Having a better economy, of course, there will be fewer people who will need housing support. The individual has not had it reduced. On the contrary, in the revised national budget, the government is now strengthening housing support by having a strong boost for families with children and other large households. I think the representative Lundtegen was exemplaryly honest from this pulpit when he admitted that the previous government did not do enough, it ignored the challenges of the redundancy scheme. However, at the same time, Lundtigen criticises this government for taking the necessary steps to get the most out of work, or for disembarkation, if that is what they need. I want to read out a quote: "We have no time to lose. There is no reason for young people to go on redundancy pay for four years.’ [[AAP]] It was the Vice-Chairman of the Workers' Party, Hadia Tajik, who spoke those words. I regret to register that Gahr Støre came, kept his post and left the hall, but I see the Workers' Party has other representatives here. The Programme Committee of the Workers' Party and Hadia Tajik initially went in to reduce redundancy payments from four to two years – with a very good reason. They thought that it was important as soon as possible to have a clarification, so that those who are going to get into disability can get on their feet, get the predictability it means, but also that those who are going back to work will have targeted tools to help them get into working life. Nor can we see a case completely isolated, because if we are to help people who may have some health challenges back in their working life, we also need to have a working life that accepts them. That's why this government has made sure that the gateway to the world of work goes further and wider, while today's opposition wants to pull the ladder up, which means that many people who may have some health challenges get an even longer way back to work. This government has strengthened Velferds-Norway. We're going to continue with it through targeted tools that help the individual.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e1039	In this debate, there have been so many speeches from the position. Some have been quite provocative. Nordby Lunde started by saying that work is more than work, it is also common – as if people who are sick, away from work, have lost their jobs or have to look after another job because of illness, are not aware of it. The sickness claim disappeared from the redundancy payment scheme, also said Nordby Lunde. What does she really mean by that? In his first post, Wiborg said that redundancy was never meant to be a ‘general study aid scheme’. No, has it ever worked like that, then? So one continues to pretend that the redundancy scheme is being filled up by people who were never supposed to be there, and I think it's quite provocative. So I have asked the Council of State in writing and received a written reply to it. I have asked what basis Nav has provided for redundancy payments for people without health problems and listed the examples that the position likes to use: young unemployed people, drug users, immigrants who really only have language problems, housewives without previous professional experience. I have been told by the Council of State that the analyses she is sitting on do not indicate that people who do not meet the entry criteria have been granted the AAP. So now I think one should stop pretending that people are using this system, or that it has become something it was not meant to. The councils themselves have replied that this is actually not the case. The most original article in the debate seems to me to have come from the Left's representative Røkkum. It's not the government and the majority that are responsible for the situation people are now in, the people who are on the bar, it's Nav that's to blame, because it's the employees that haven't understood the new rules. Yes, the staff have understood the new rules – they already warned about the first tightenings that took place in the hidden from 2016, and they strongly warned again from 2018. The saddest thing comes from the Christian People's Party, when one sees where the Christian People's Party has chosen to place itself. Now one is a responsible management party and hides behind that one waits impatiently for an evaluation. That blurred, of course, effectively pulled away the state council by saying that it's way too early to evaluate anything. So the decision in 2021 is likely to come before that evaluation. The most surprising thing is that the Council of State, as she continues to say, strengthens the process capacity in Nav, has no idea how much has been cut off in so-called red tape and more effective on her watch, nor can I answer how much has been added. I can just say that the last time I calculated what's cut, the sum was almost 300 million. kr. So the government can come up here and fill out those numbers afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e1053	There have been many excuses in the Chamber today from the bourgeois side, many attempts to speak away from what is at the heart of the matter. The essence of the matter is that many people are now struggling because of the right and the bourgeois's reactionary policies, which basically go into one thing, namely, that those at the bottom of the ladder are using the whip. They are supposed to be stimulated for action by getting less, by tightening and cutting and getting worse in their lives, while at the top of society is a completely different logic from the same parties. There, this government is making sure that the richest get billions of billions of tax dollars to be stimulated for increased effort – a hundred times more in tax bills for them by 10 million. kr in income and more, than for the low-wages. It is at the heart of the policy behind the tightening up of the AAP system. I note that it is not possible to get an answer from the Council of State to a simple question, namely, the question of whether it is no wonder that people can get a little longer time on the AAP to clarify their working capacity, could come back to work for perhaps 20–30–40 years more, rather than being thrown out of the scheme due to a rigid code and port of disability for 10–20–30 or 40 years. Everyone understands that the answer is simple. It's obviously better with a code that gives people who have different diseases, a little longer, that there are exceptions to it, in order to be able to figure out the disease picture and find out what are the possibilities of getting back to work, rather than throwing them out on social assistance or no income protection at all. That the Right does not understand this, is perhaps not a great surprise, but that the Christian People's Party does not realize it or is willing to admit these obvious contexts, is perhaps more surprising. At the same time, the price paid by the Christian People's Party for joining the government is that they act as doormats for the Left, the Advance Party and the Right unfair and unsocial cut policy. It's a shame, but it's an obvious fact that that's what happens to the Christian People's Party in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e1062	We had a social security system in Norway that tricked people. I think it's important to bring the story here. The red-green implementation of the Nav reform was not particularly successful. It was so bad that the National Audit Office could not confirm Nav's accounts, and the then State Council, Dag Terje Andersen, had to meet in the Control and Constitutional Committee to explain itself. Worse for the users, of course. People had to get worse before they got it something like they had before – no improvement. In the evaluation of the reform, we read: ‘Perhaps the most alarming finding in this article is the seemingly persistent adverse effects of NAV on young recipients of health-related benefits.’ The AAP should be the internal security of the red-green parties in the reform. Here it should be easier and better. Was it? No, no, no. People became involuntary passive social security recipients. They were not contacted by Nav. They could go one year – yes, two years without hearing anything from Nav about how to follow up. When four years had passed, some of them were undecided. Then they had to get social assistance, or they got dissatisfaction, someone against their will. Others had to wait too long for the disability they were actually entitled to and should have received earlier. In the Sintef report on the AAP, we can, among other things: read the following from interviews with Nav employees: ‘Many respond that young people who do not have serious health problems would have a closer follow-up to the KVP or other social assistance.’ We can also read: ‘Very many people also point out that users without obvious health problems are difficult and that the AAP is not the right performance for them.’ [[regardless of age]] Further, we read: ‘Many mention that those with drug problems are a group that is going very alone on the AAP, and that they would get much better help from the municipality.’ And on the other hand, ‘Those in need of a different follow-up from those given as AAP recipients are young users with no serious illness, users with mental or diffuse disorders, users with very poor language skills, users with severe drug problems.’ There was absolutely a need for a clean-up. Before, everyone agreed that we had to have a more comprehensive social security system where people got the follow-up they were going to have, if they were sick, or if they had other social problems. That's what this government is cleaning up and this bulk of the population is doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e1095	Under today's government, we see the outlines of a new society emerging: the differences in the economy are increasing, three out of ten households have less advice now than when Erna Solberg became prime minister in 2013, and the richest run from, well assisted by the government's tax policy. We see increased differences in working life between those who work under arranged conditions and those who are affected by unprofessionalism, social dumping and renting. We also see it in society — we see a large increase in the number of beneficiaries of social assistance, as a direct consequence of government policies, and in addition an explosion of young people. The fact that governments and right-wing parties want to increase differences, we are used to – as has always been the case in Norway – but their policies also weaken the working line. Many who can and want to work are instead being pushed into social security and social assistance. The matter we are discussing here today, we could have resolved well today if the Christian People's Party had stood for what they previously thought: they were against the cuts when they were in opposition. We could have ensured today that people were given better rights to good follow-up, and that they were given the opportunity to extend for more. This is the cold and regrettable fact of the matter. This case is the first major case in which we see the confirmation of the change that the Christian People's Party has undergone after they made their choice of way and entered the government. The representative of the Tuskedal said it from this pulpit: the Christian People's Party was not part of the contractions in the redundancy system. And he explained what the Christian People's Party used to mean, and that's absolutely right. Many therefore also had expectations of change when the Christian People's Party entered the government, but when they got space around the King's table, they forgot those sitting at the bottom of the community table. The desire for power became more important than the persons involved in this matter. The right-wing representatives would like to use their speaking time in this debate to talk about the snow that fell last year, about various proposals that have been up to date in this matter, but I think people would rather hear what the government parties intend to do with their responsibilities – here and now, today and tomorrow. I haven't actually heard the right-hand side representatives say a single word about that. There is probably also the end of the matter – with an arrogance from today’s government, which does not listen to the signals of those who are being hit, who do not listen to demonstrations outside the Storting and who are not willing to listen to proposals promoted by the opposition, in order to contribute to the improvement of those who are affected.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e1108	There's a lot of attention on the Christian People's Party. It is predictable, and it is understandable – there is pressure in this case, it is a demanding matter. Yes, we hear stories. I've read everything that's written, and I'm not deleting anything. To the representative Lighthouse: It makes an impression when I read about it, so I'm familiar with the situation. But when the Lighthouse also says that we're hiding behind an evaluation, it's a strange characteristic of an evaluation. I am quite convinced that it will pay off that the Christian People's Party is now in government, because we see unfortunate sides. But an evaluation must be extended. We now need to see what works in the scheme, what's wrong in the scheme, how Nav works in the scheme, how adjacent measures work. We must have an overall assessment, and I can promise that the Christian People's Party is impatient in government in this matter. To Lise Christoffersen, who says that it does not come until 2021: Yes, it does – at least we have to work for it. So it has to be absolutely clear what is the Christian People's Party's position. In the case of the representative Gahr Støre, who said that the Christian People's Party is looking down, I don't think Gahr Støre could have been in the hall when I made my contribution. I said that the primary position of the Christian People's Party is as before, not unlike that of the Center Party – we voted against in the previous round. So by joining a government, with the Granavolden platform, we have our victories and our losses, and I think that both the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre are familiar with how a treats primary policy – at least I have talked to representatives of the two smallest parties who told us what it was like to be in a'red-green situation'. So it's clear that that's the Christian People's Party's position, and that's not something we're neither hiding nor unable to stand by. The Granavolden platform provided us with a significant impact on welfare measures. I'm not going to ram up – it's a long list to ram up – and that was our position. In government, the Christian People's Party will continue to be an impatient voice, precisely in this sort of case. I think people see that. Then Gahr had made a final comment that this was an example of the wrong direction. Well, I never heard one thing that made me think that way, at least, from that edge.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e1131	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e1136	The reality is that the changes that have now been made are pushing people further away from the labour market and not into the labour market. There is a lack of follow-up of Nav so that there are enough employees there to help people and measures that actually work. SV has been critical of the obligation of activity for the people involved, but we have made proposals on the obligation of activity for Nav. We have put money on the table so that it is possible to implement measures and hire more people, because we know that socially good work and follow-up work works. As far as housing aid is concerned, I have a number of evidence of this, which the representative of Wiborg can get. So it's a reality that there's almost 50,000 fewer who get now than it was ten years ago. Boutines have increased on average by over NOK 20 000, and the revenue of this group has fallen by nearly NOK 10000. They have also become poorer, and it seems to be the social budget of the municipalities and the life of those who have it difficult.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e1145	The representative Lise Christoffersen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e1150	It was for the previous post of the representative Wiborg. He uses the technique that seems to have become a constant trick at the position and in the government for the time being, and it's using conscious half-truths to make sure to spread falsehoods. When Wiborg says that the programme committee in the Workers' Party proposed to cut the AAP from four to two years, the representative Wiborg knows that this is not the case. The programme committee in the Workers' Party proposed in 2017 was to reduce the benefit period for young people born from 1990 and later to two years plus a job guarantee at the other end of the youth. Now the national meeting decided to keep for them for four years, but with the job guarantee at the other end intact. I think I had to have the opportunity to correct it, but I know that to the representative Wiborg I didn't have to correct it, because he knows what the truth is.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e1155	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has also had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e1160	The red-greens didn't do enough, but we've all learned a lesson on the red-green side, and we're now together to get humanity. For the Central Party, the reorganisation of Nav with several professionals in the first line is absolutely crucial. We will fight for that, and we will fight for the responsibility and authority of the local Nav offices in municipalities and urban areas to decide on the exceptions. They're the ones who wear the shoes, they're the ones who know the human life situation, they're the ones who have the whole thing in common, not the people who sit in the special departments. What we're discussing is to relax the exceptions, which the Center Party and the Christian People's Party agree on. We're not getting it right now, because it looks like Jern-Erna is back. It's billions and not people that apply now. It's sad that we can't make a little change, because there's little money for many vulnerable people's case applies.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e1168	Just after the government change in 2013, we heard quite regularly from the new position: what happened during eight red-green years? – During eight red-green years you didn't get to one and not to the other. As the years passed, this argument began to lose its power, because year after year new government budgets are coming, new decisions. It's actually not very forward-looking to point backwards in everything. But the representative Heggelund is making a complete effort to go back in time to sum up what many years ago were challenges in the Norwegian welfare system, Nav reform, etc. It's not interesting for those people who are hit by what they're taking off here now. It's talk, it's proof that you're taking time to shade away from what's the very specific themes now. So when that theme is back again – what happened in red-green years – there is a clear sign of weakness from the government. I thank the representative Tuskedal for the post, I got it with me the previous one. I think it was an honest post he made. He was talking about winning and losing. We have to understand that what is the government's position here now is a loss for the Christian People's Party. What's the winner in it, is a little bit unclear to see. It could be interesting in itself to know what it is in what we've been discussing here today, which is a breakthrough for the Christian People's Party's politics. Then the representative also said that he did not hear anything about this from the edge when they took their direction. Well, there was actually some of what we talked about that fall, in 2018, that when it was the view of welfare policy, the view of those sitting at the bottom of the table, the view of where we spend the big money, the view of how we commit ourselves to following up people, we in the Workers' Party perceived that there was quite similar thinking between the Christian People's Party and us, and that we could get a real change of course, a cooperation – if that were going to happen in the middle of a big period. But it didn't. That is why I find it interesting when the representative says that this should be considered a general loss. What he got left for that loss, I think it might be interesting to hear more about. This debate ends without giving an answer on how to follow up the people who are not – as the Council of State says – caught up. But I can assure you that we will continue to work and listen to them, make proposals – both on politics and on individual matters – what we can do to see these people, give them justice, and, as was said in some of the speeches by my party's representatives, also contribute to the line of work that this country needs, when we are actually going to call on the labour force and on people who will contribute, in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e1183	I got a question from the representative Lise Christoffersen about how much has been reduced in Nav as a result of the ABE reform. Unfortunately, I didn't have the number just during the line exchange. That's 370 million. until 2019. In return, we have strengthened the department by means of funding for inclusion, for youth and for the duty of activity. We've strengthened Nav by 200 million. kr to increased ownership and 40 million. kr to follow up the AAP changes. In addition, an ICT bet only comes this year at 423 million. kr, which is also an important contribution to making working life easier for employees, but also easier for the user. In addition, there are more than 250 employees in Nav now than when we took over in 2013. This means that employees now have better time and opportunity to follow up, perhaps especially those users who have a little more complex needs. I understand that the opposition does not want to talk so much about the evaluations. They show quite discouraging results in very many areas, not just in the AAP area, which we are discussing here. We can go into the introduction system, we've evaluated it not to be good enough. We have not seen enough labour market measures. The youth guarantees — to which the opposition wishes to return — have also been evaluated to be not good enough. I think we owe it to the users of the services, the inhabitants of this country, to ask the question, When is the help coming? Can we do what we say we're going to do? If the evaluations so clearly show that no, we can't do that, yes, then we actually have to change the course. So it's not always easy to change the course without going beyond anyone. Then it's our job and our duty to try to make those changes as good and smooth as possible. That's right, what Andersen's representative says: KVP, the qualification program, is too little used. Yes, precisely – and that is why I asked the question: Why is it used too little, when it is qualification that is often highlighted as the most lacking? The answer to that question is that the threshold was too high, it was too difficult to get in. That's why we changed this last year, by lowering the age limit to 18 years, by making it possible to go out and into the program. If one went out of it once, yes, a jam would give me another chance. You couldn't do that before. We're making it easier to complete education. We have to see things a little bit closely in context. I understand that the opposition won't look back, but we also have to look back a little bit to understand why we're doing many of the changes we're making. That's because we want to move forward, contribute to better services for the many people who are out there and need help, who they have not received in the past in a good enough way. I'm going to be the first to say that the evaluations we're working on now -- the department evaluates -- we're going to read carefully, just to see how this turns out.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e1198	At first, I want to express my respect for the representative Lundtigen, even though we disagree with parts of the question here. It is important to remember that the Central Party voted to reduce the AAP from four to three years, but we disagree on other aspects. Then he's open on the background of why it was necessary to make changes. What I'm wondering about the representative, Lundteg, is when he's talking about that we need a strong first line in Nav. Yes, we fully agree with that, but when the government made proposals for broader, stronger trade unions in the Nav offices, so that it would be less random what kind of follow-up and feedback you received, regardless of where you lived in the country and which Nav office you belonged to, the Center Party was against it, for district policy reasons. So to the representative Gahr Støre: I understand that the Workers' Party will not talk about its social policy heritage in modern times. It's a shame. But I think it's a little funny that while we from workers' party representatives have to hear about things that Right obviously did in 1918, the representative Gahr Støre cannot stand to hear what is the background of the changes we are now making in Nav. The background to the changes we are now making in Nav is precisely the failure of the Social Policy of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. So that's what we're cleaning up. The background for this was, among other things, the evaluation reports from which I quoted in my post. When we introduced the obligation of activity for social welfare beneficiaries to raise the non-health-related benefits of the Nav system, so that people with other social problems too would be followed up, the left side was opposed. When it was introduced, we could read press releases from all over the country with people who said this was good, because now they had the routines back in life. That's how you create a more comprehensive social security and social security system. While the Labour Party is promoting proposals to introduce it after it has been introduced, it only shows their lack of innovation in social policy. In the end, I never forget when we had a hearing in the Labour and Social Committee in the previous period, and a representative from the Change Factory, a young representative who had met with Nav and got benefits, told me how she felt she had to get sick in order to get benefits. It's the Workers' Party's social policy heritage, and that's what we're cleaning up now, by creating a more comprehensive social security system that suits everyone, no matter why you have to go to Nav.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e1213	The President would only draw attention to the fact that the characterisation of other parties’ policies as ‘a shame’ or ‘a shame’ has previously been advocated as non-parliamentary acceptable terms.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e1218	The representative of Christoffersen believes that people who did not qualify for work relief have come into the system, and she also wonders what we believe that the disease requirement had been weakened. This isn't very mysterious, it's nothing but the whole working and social committee set itself up in 2017, including the Workers' Party. There it said: «The Committee refers to the proposal and supports the intention to clarify in the intended provision that the scheme is a health-related performance.» Just because the disease requirement was weakened in the transition from the three initial benefits to the AAP in 2010, Sintef and the National Centre of Competence for Labour Rehabilitation established in its evaluation that the scheme had become too wide and wide. They believed the now included groups for which it was never intended, and clearly recommended that the entry criteria had to be practised more rigorously. That's the background for the changes. For example, Sintef meant: that young people without a serious illness were not fit to enter the AAP. They also showed that people who had not previously been registered in work, such as local, private business and immigrants without good enough Norwegian knowledge, came into the scheme. They qualified, yes, but should they be there? I want to repeat: it is not social to extend and erode schemes so that scarce resources are used on other than the ones for which they are intended. It weakens the measures, because they are applied to other than the measures that were adapted to, it weakens Nav, because the resources intended for some have to be used on more, and not least it weakens the confidence of the welfare state when the objectives are not met, and we have to make the necessary changes to ensure that many who have previously received suddenly fall outside. This does not mean that the changes are wrong, but that the changes were necessary so that no more would end up in the same situation. Nav has been strengthened. There are better measures for many, while there is no change in the qualification for disability benefit, where help is provided to those seeking help. Of course, we will listen to the feedback we receive when we make changes, and we will continue with the inclusion due. I am absolutely sure that we can make more arrangements that are more targeted and more accurate to help people get back into work, or to disability, for those who need it. For that, we need an inclusion promise. That's what this government is working on.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e1234	When right-wing representatives, inter alia: Stefan Heggelund, must resort to such words and characteristics and spend his entire speaking time on old history, it says all about a government that lacks self-confidence, that realizes that they will lose this debate, and that is trying to turn the focus on something completely different. What the debate is about is what we can do for those who are now affected by the government's cut-off in the system of redundancy payments, in order to provide opportunities for extension for those affected by failure of the system, failure of procedures – things they are not responsible for themselves. What can the Storting and the Government do there? The government's answer is nothing. We're going to keep trying everything we can to help make it more dignified and more follow-up. It's all about what kind of society we want. We see the outlines of a new disparity society as a result of government policy. What they're doing isn't cleaning up, it's cleaning up. They're going to throw people out of the system and into permanent social assistance or let them handle themselves. The duty of activity they like to boast was introduced for the first time under Gro Harlem Brundtland. We want it to be used in a sense. What the government did when they introduced the obligation of activity for people up to 30 years, was that it should be a one-sided duty without society having to deal with anything in the form of follow-up and action – things that could help people get out of work. We have proposed strengthening the rights, strengthening the regime. The government parties are against it. We see an explosion in young people under today's government. People who want to work, who could have worked, and who have life ahead of them, end up with today's government up as young people. We see a large increase, confirmed by the Council of State itself, in the number of social welfare recipients directly as a result of government's cut policy. It is a policy that weakens the workline, weakens the ability of people to be self-contained and live the life they dream of, and weakens the social accounts in Norway. So we have a government that, with its policy, consciously increases the differences and weakens our ability to have a good welfare society in the future. The most serious thing is that people's prospects are weakened as a result. I think that's sad. Unfortunately, there the debate stops, but the opposition has to do everything we can to help those who are currently in despair get the necessary help, the possibility of extension and the possibility of a good content that can make more people come into work and live the life they dream of.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e1249	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e1265	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that up to five lines of reply are given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e1274	I'm glad that a joint committee shares the vision of a society where everyone can participate. It is necessary to facilitate the functioning of disabled persons in working life and in their daily lives. The Solberg Government provided the introduction of rights-based user-controlled personal assistance, BPA, from January 2015. As early as 2004, the Stortinget asked the government to promote legislation on the right to user-led personal assistant. The Bondevik government followed this up in 2005 and in the 2006 state budget, but unfortunately the government did not follow up on the rights-attachment of BPA. The aim of the scheme was to secure BPA for people with disabilities who need more than 25 hours of assistance per week and who are under 67 years of age. During the review in 2014, the government ensured that the right was extended to include support contacts and removal for parents with disabled children under 18 years of age. If people with disabilities are to function and be able to contribute to the community, to work, to engage politically or simply to have a normal social life, assistance is essential. BPA has proved to be an effective way to ensure that this assistance is provided and provides people with different challenges with increased quality of life. Being able to work or volunteer creates values, joy and mastery by contributing. This is something both society and the individual user benefit from. It is important that we encourage disabled people to contribute their abilities and talents. Despite the fact that the Solberg government has secured the right to BPA, there have been challenges in the practice of these rights. Today, the municipalities are responsible for the treatment and allocation of BPA. Unfortunately, there have been many complaints to both the patient and user representatives and the county councillors. Through the Granavolden Platform, the government has announced measures to ensure that the rights of the Solberg Government introduced in 2015 are better followed up in the municipalities. The government will, among other things, define the BPA scheme as an equality tool and not a health scheme. It shall ensure that the approval of hours for BPA is a professional judgement, so that shifting between municipalities does not affect the number of hours granted. The government wants to remove the 67-year upper age limit for the right to user-driven personal assistance for those who have already been granted the scheme. A NOU shall be implemented to ensure the proper functioning of the scheme, including the identification of how it can be extended to ensure participation in recreational activities. The government shall also ensure that the scheme is actually user-driven. These are important measures to ensure that users of BPA are granted the rights they are entitled to have in the municipalities. The government is already working to improve the scheme, and the intention of the representative proposal has therefore already been fulfilled. The government parties therefore see no reason to vote on the proposal for a representative, but are pleased that there is a great deal of commitment from all parties. With that, I recommend the Committee's attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e1291	BPA gives disabled people the opportunity to live an active life. It's about being able to control your own everyday life and master your own life. The working party is very much for the BPA system, but we've been honest that it has some challenges. There are major municipal differences in the allocation and design of BPAs. Norway’s Handicap Federation, in its consultation call to the state budget last year, said that several evaluations, including the Handicap Federation’s own report Equality and participation in reverses?, document completely different experiences and findings than the government likes to make – a reality in which the rights attaching of user-driven personal assistance does not work after the intentions. The working party agrees with the proposer on the need to urgently develop good solutions for the system of user-led personal assistance. The system does not work well enough after the intention, and as I said, there is a great variation in practice. Some of today's challenge with the BPA scheme is due to a weakened municipal economy, and I dare remind you that the Workers' Party's alternative budget for 2019 prioritised 3.5 billion. kr more to the municipalities. The government has promised an in-depth investigation into the BPA system, including: shall consider whether it should be subject to health law. We think that makes sense. We also recall that about this time last year, a majority in the United Kingdom made it clear that the government has to present a big message on safeguarding the rights of people with disabilities, focusing on ensuring that the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, the CRPD, is fully implemented in all relevant areas of society in Norway. The investigation must propose clearer guidelines for the practice of BPA and, in that context, consider any regulatory and ministerial link to the scheme. The investigation must also involve user and related organisations in order to ensure real participation. However, we would warn against the fact that the investigation will be a resting place for the government, as the BPA system also needs immediate measures to ensure that the scheme is practised more in line with its intentions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e1304	It is an important topic that is raised in the proposal for a representative. User-controlled personal assistants, or BPA, are an important equality tool to compensate for the disability some of our citizens have. With the appropriate assistant, disabled people should be able to conduct schools and studies, get into work, participate in leisure activities and live almost normal lives with family and friends. Unfortunately, there are some municipalities that obviously do not understand that BPA should be a gender equality tool but choose to provide home services instead. Home services are intended for a completely different group of people than the disabled. Different municipalities practice BPA very differently, which is regrettable, but this is not an argument for lifting BPA out of the municipalities. On the contrary: this is an argument that the scheme and the requirements need to be clarified. The parties largely agree on the need for BPA, but we disagree on the content and who will provide the services. While some parties want municipal staff to be assistants, we believe that the disabled person himself should, as far as possible, be able to hire and be an employer for his own assistants. Different disabilities require different types of assistants. It is not certain that the assistant needs to have other professional characteristics than being a good fellow person who lubricates bread slices, drives a car and takes care of the functions that the disabled person cannot do himself. It should be the disabled person who determines the duties of the assistant, not the municipality. A blind couple contacted me a while ago. They are frustrated because the municipality they live in refuses to assist them with the practical tasks of daily life. The couple must neatly cut the lawn and wash the windows themselves. There is no doubt about the rights of disabled people. Several circulars have been sent out, and they are understandable. It says, among other things: that the disabled person is provided with ‘practical assistance for necessary cleaning and other necessary assistance to all practical tasks of daily life in the home and in relation to the household’ – which, in the case of a blind couple, are to have windows washed or cut the lawn. With the rights fixation it followed 505 million. kr. The extent to which the municipalities actually use these funds for BPA is more uncertain and varies from municipality to municipality. The municipalities have different practices in the area of BPA. The deviations between those who actually provide services such as BPA should be, and the municipalities that do not do their job, are unfortunately so great that I look forward to the NOU coming. And when it comes, I hope it will be a promise for all the disabled people of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e1317	User-driven personal assistance is a gender equality and non-discrimination tool. SV has fought for it for many years, with slightly varying resistance both here and there. I was of those who attended and celebrated when we got this legalized. But I am also of those who think we have to take over what we warned against already during the treatment at the time: that there were no regulations that ensured that the municipalities could not treat this a bit the way they would sail. And we'll see that from that, because it shows the studies that, among other things, ULOBA has done -- it's getting worse. So the law has led to a worse offer for many, and that is quite bad. For many years now, we have made proposals from the SV to get a regulatory confirmation as a first step to improve this system. Unfortunately, the majority voted in favour. Yes, they have also voted to extend the scheme for them over 67 years – as I hear the government now says they will go in for it, and I am waiting for it. We're going to promote it this year again in connection with the municipal proposition. I want to wait and see if you mean this, because that's not how the intention of this proposal is fulfilled, as someone was up here and said. That's not true. In principle, user-driven personal assistance should be part of the public interest, as it is a tool, but it has been incorporated into the health legislation of municipalities. That's why we get all of these strange results that we've seen, and that's why the measurement is not correct in relation to the help needs of many of these people. That is why we are promoting proposals today to look at how to finance this through the state, as is done with other means, in order to equalise this aid with other means – because it is a tool. It can also be seen whether there is a need for other types of schemes that can act as personal assistance, such as: personally managed health care services in nursing. We've had contact with a lot of families who have sick and disabled children, who have pointed out that they need user-driven personal assistance, but then they need a different type of assistance, with professional competence, which makes it possible to meet the need for help better than today. Then I take up the suggestions in the setting that SV is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e1330	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e1335	It is great that we are debating the BPA system. This equality tool is important for all those who, for various reasons, need assistance for everyday tasks and the scheme needs to be improved in several areas. The left has been working on the BPA scheme for a long time, and in particular I want to give former Left Council Guro Fjellangs, who recently became a bit of a huge honour for the changes that have been created. In the last period, we made sure that the scheme was legislated through our cooperation with the government. The next step, as part of a new government, is that we have to make sure that this scheme becomes what it was intended to do, to ensure them with the need for assistance an opportunity to take control of their own lives – help to work, take education and live an active and independent life where the right to participate in leisure activities is a matter of course. This is important policy for the Left. In the first of ten liberal principles, on which our policies are based, we emphatically affirm: "Freedom shall apply everywhere, to all." And we rest only when freedom applies everywhere, to all. Therefore, of course, we want to continue working to ensure all equivalency and equal opportunities. Therefore, BPA should be defined as a gender equality tool, not a health scheme. This and many other important questions about the BPA scheme will be answered in the notified NOU. When, in addition, this government has the equidistant reform as one of the government's main projects, with the goal of a historic uplift to alienation, we're on the right track. We have the same value even though we're different and we have different starting points. We need to remind each other of that. I am proud of the insights of the warmth of the Left and the inclusive policies of the government platform. Through active policies, we show that we want – and demand – a voice and inclusive society, a society in which there is room for diversity and diversity. Then it is that some of us should have more help and support than others. That's why we need to have a good BPA system, which must be a real freedom tool and work as intended. That is why we need to have a good and unlimited care scheme and other support measures for hard-tested families. That's why we're going to have an integration virtue, because everyone is going to have a place in our society. It's a struggle for freedom in the spirit of Guro Mountainers. I share the view of the Council of State that there is little new in this proposal that is not already the government's policy or that will be taken care of by the development of the NOU. We therefore share the objective of a good BPA scheme with the proposers.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e1348	The BPA scheme is a system designed to help people become bosses in their own lives, and that is why this system is so important. But at the same time, there is a clear recognition that this scheme does not work anywhere, and it is in that recognition that this scheme is also raised as high in the Granavolden Declaration as it has become. So it's not like members of the government parties are standing here and saying that everything works well. This had not been a theme in the Granavolden Declaration – rather on the contrary. There are challenges here, not least with regard to the fact that there are so many differences between municipalities, and that in some municipalities this becomes more a health aid scheme than a gender equality scheme. And I'm very happy that the government has focused on that, because the BPA system is about giving people with disabilities equal opportunities. The vision that all human beings are equally valuable and will live equivalent lives is very central to the Christian People's Party, and therefore this arrangement is a matter of heart to us. We in the Christian People's Party share the impatience expressed in this proposal for a representative, and we share the frustration that there are so different practices in the municipalities. We want to do something about this, and we say that very clearly, we make that clear in the Granavolden statement, and we are very happy with the insights we've got there. We are already working on making the system a gender equality tool and not a health system, because the central thing here is that the system should be effectively user-driven, so that the public should not go in and define what kind of life the individual should live. The BPA scheme is about giving the opportunity to become a boss in your own life. Last week I heard about a girl who was told by the home service that she had to cut her hair into a more light hairstyle, so she didn't have to be escorted to the hairdresser so often. That's not how it should be, it's not how it should be. There's a limit to how much the public should decide in people's lives. When the welfare society creates more remorse than self-power, and when dignity is taken from a human being, then it is created unhealthy. That's why it's so important to make this system work, because it creates joyous ones, it creates good health, it creates like-minded lives. And I hope that's what we're going to do through what the government has said we're going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e1361	When the United Nations criticises Norway for not fulfilling the human rights of a group in the country, and even says that we treat them as second-class citizens, it's very serious. I'm glad the government is now signaling that they're going to take it up. Today's situation is totally unsustainable. Due to weak legislation and different practices in municipalities, postal code and age can be crucial for living or being passive, i.e. whether you can get the support of a user-led personal assistant, as you are entitled to. Lack of assistance has major consequences. Many are excluded from taking part in jobs, social and recreational activities, travelling and caring for their role in the family. More than 90,000 disabled people say they would like to have been in work, but they do not get the opportunity because of a lack of assistance. These are our friends, these are our parents, our siblings, our neighbors, our fellow students, our colleagues. Although individuals are primarily affected, society is losing at all levels of today’s situation. We in the Greens record that so far we have not been able to make the arrangement universal and funded by the state, so that it becomes fair to all, but that the scheme should be investigated. It is then extremely important that the mandate of the NOU be wide and inclusive. We now expect the government to cooperate more closely with organisations for users and stakeholders, as well as business operators, to ensure real participation. I would like to point out that the NHO Service and Trade are clear that equal rights to BPA, regardless of where you live, are absolutely essential. The NHO believes that it will be important for the quality of life of many people that the conditions of BPA change to the needs of users in order to achieve life development and independence. There are three things we in the Greens now expect the NOU to investigate thoroughly. First, it is to transfer the BPA scheme from the Ministry of Health and Welfare to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. It is that the BPA is directly financed by the State. Thirdly, BPA becomes a universal right, regardless of hours and age, cf. The United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Today's situation is a completely unnecessary discrimination against a group of people in our society who have rights that we have not been able to fulfil yet. It's totally unsustainable.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e1374	It is an important proposal that comes from the Green Party on the BPA scheme. We are some about the need for improvement and that there is a need for speedy solutions. First, the proposal to implement the decisions of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in Norwegian Legislation. We put in a note that last year there were a number – towards the Right, the Progress Party and the Left – in the Storting for a big message on the protection of the rights of the developing people, ensuring that the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, the CRPD, is fully implemented in all relevant areas of society. I do not see that the State Council in its reply to this proposal has referred to it, and would like to hear if the government has not intended to follow up that decision. When it comes to the other suggestions, choose the Center Party not to go in for them today. We point out, as the majority in the Committee, that the government of the Granavolden platform has told them to present a NOU. The platform also says that the government will define BPA as an equality tool. We're a few of them. It states that the approval of the hourly rate for BPA should be subject to professional judgement, so that the transfer between municipalities should not affect it. We're a few of them. It says that one should remove the upper age limit of 67. It is proposed by the Central Party when we adopted the law. Now there are some in it. The fact that the scheme should be actually user-driven, we also agree. We would like to wait for the NOU today, and we have argued that the mandate given will be as stated by the Council of State and the Government, that it will actually highlight the many feedbacks that have come from user groups, that it will be a real NOU that can ensure that the scheme will be as intended when it was adopted in the Storting. Many people have been involved in the fact that it doesn't work well enough. Among other things, I took a few years ago, students were refused to travel on exchange because of a five-week rule. There's a lot of examples here. But we're looking forward to the government coming back to Stortinget with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e1386	For people with disabilities and a high need for assistance, BPA means much for the ability to work, take education and live an active and independent life. The system provides flexibility, equality and freedom when it works well. The ability to decide for yourself who should help us with the most necessary, how it should happen, and when, are the rights that we functionally take for granted. But for people with disabilities, it's not like that. Therefore, user-controlled personal assistance is a freedom tool for those who can use it. It is particularly important for those in need of assistance, and it is also those who have legal rights to the scheme. Many of the users and organisations report that the BPA scheme is well-like and that it has become too much the equality tool to ensure the rights-attachment. Still, there are aspects that can get better. These include: on the security of the scheme when moving, the scope of the service, and the possibility of participating in leisure activities – to mention something. It could also be about how the BPA should be seen in the context of other arrangements for organisation and support, so that we get a more comprehensive support device. It's time for us to get a public investigation into the scheme, to make sure it works properly, and that those who get BPA are sure of what rights they can plan their lives for. We should have a discussion about how the scheme can develop and what it should be in the future. Such a debate can contribute to a common understanding of what BPA is and how the service should work. It was with a little wonder I read this proposal. In the context of the proposal, the representative writes that he is concerned that the mandate for the notified investigation is not sufficiently concrete to ensure that the essential changes to the system leading to actual improvement are assessed. Let me quote from the platform: ‘Implement a NOU to ensure the proper functioning of the scheme, including assessing how it can be extended in order to ensure participation in leisure activities. The system shall be effectively user-controlled.’» The platform is clear on what to solve, but not how. That's why we want an investigation. I cannot see that the proposal by the representative brings something particularly new to the items on the BPA that are included in the government platform. I want to create a mandate that ensures an investigation into issues raised by users and user organisations that will contribute to a sustainable over time system. It is important that the mandate is designed in a way that allows us to see the issues in context, without prejudicing ourselves to concrete solutions. The selection should have a broad representation, including by users. In the Granavolden platform, we write that the government is to ensure that user-controlled personal assistants are a gender equality tool. That's exactly what it's all about: being the head of your own life, despite disability.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e1408	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e1413	The government is responsible for establishing a BPA scheme that does not function according to the Storting intention. It's a government council's job to implement Storting's intentions. The government is now to provide an in-depth investigation, but the scheme also needs some immediate action. My question to the Council of State is: How does she intend to work to improve the system until this thorough investigation has been made, and what does the Council of State feel the most urgent?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e1420	There are clearly things that need to be done more quickly, including: removing the age limit of 67 for those who have had this service. We think that should be done much faster. A consultation proposal is therefore being worked out in a short time. The second thing I think is important is that we who are sitting in this room must work together against our local politicians, who manage this system daily. It's in the municipalities that it happens, and we see that there are very big differences in how the municipalities practice this scheme. The rapporteurs and those who run the municipalities come from different parties, and I think it is important that we take the initiative to put this arrangement on the agenda, that we also address these issues locally. Now work will take some time, but I think it's important that we take that time to see what the right solutions here will be.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e1429	So the council actually plays the ball back to Stortinget. The size and party groups will talk to their municipalities when the government does not fulfil Storting's intention. This is a new division of labour. After all, it is the government that is responsible for implementing the will of the Storting, and it is clearly expressed in several decisions. I think the first local politicians from all parties will be concerned about, is that the scheme they are told from the Storting to implement is well funded, and that the framework for which the government is responsible is clear. Is it really so that the council sends the ball back to Stortinget when I ask what she will do pending the NOU?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e1436	I can assure the representative Kjerkol that I am going to stand on to get this system into the framework in which it will be. There are many municipalities that do a very good job. There are other municipalities where it doesn't work. We see that in concrete things where people have moved from one municipality to another. There's also one side of this arrangement that we're going to look at. I think it's important that everyone does a job so that we can make these services work, and to the extent that you want and can contribute, it's positive. I have already met with the user organisations and received feedback from them about where they think the shoe is pressing, and will of course follow it as closely as I can. But taking the big hold requires that we investigate and get a NOW, so that we can see how we're going to solve it in the future. But of course we also have to work in the short term to solve the most acute, where we have the opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e1443	This is the first proposal in the proposal for a representative, where a ‘should the government propose to implement the provisions of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in Norwegian Law’. In the letter to the Committee, the Council of State acknowledges that it does not consider it a natural part of a distribution linked to BPA. I agree with the Council of State, but there was a majority decision last year, with the support of all parties except the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left, to ask the government to present a big message on how this UN Convention is to be implemented in all relevant areas. My question in the line is whether the government will present a big message, as it was adopted. And when will she come?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e1450	The Government will follow up the majority decisions taken in the Grand Duchy. It's a starting point on which the government always works. But you always have to give priority to what tasks you have to do first. I and the government believe that the most important thing now is to make sure that we make some changes to the law that we can do in the short term, among other things. the change for those over 67 years of age. We believe it is important that we get the work on the NOU started, and that we do what we can to make the system better. That's my first priority. Then, of course, we will in the long term ensure that the decisions taken in this Chamber and that which is the policy of the majority at all times are implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e1457	A NOU is necessary, but it takes a long time. Some changes are needed now. It was already clear when the law was introduced that we were going to end up with big municipal differences when you didn't want to make a regulation to the regulations that showed how the municipalities should understand them. Now I hear the Council of State says that she will send out to the hearing a bill to extend the scheme for those who are over 67 years old and who have had it before. That's good. But does the Council of State see that there is a need for regulation now, so that we get rid of the big, unfair municipal differences? You can do it if you're using a prescription.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e1462	Prioritisation of work to be done correctly will always be important. Now we're going to start working on a NOW, just to form the basis for what changes it's important to make. The feedback from user organisations was quite clear that the main challenges are that there are differences between municipalities. The second is in the transition phases, for example: when people start school, move to a place of study or change municipalities, as I said. Here we're going to look at what's possible to do. I would like to stress that in the case of legislation, this will take some time to put in place, but we have to work to ensure that municipalities are more able to meet the obligations they have towards people who need user-led personal assistants. At least there I shall, from my position, do what I can. I hope that also others here in the Chamber will contribute to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e1469	I have listened with interest and am particularly interested in the mandate of this NOU, as the Storting now has confidence that this will be discussed more. I hear that the Council of State has been extra aware of some of the problems of the BPA system today, and therefore already, regardless of the investigation, wants to send a bill on age limitation to the hearing, perhaps even removing it. It doesn't make any sense, except if you think that a person's right to exist is that you're at work. I'm a little curious about whether the Council of State intends to put any restrictions at all on this mandate, or whether all the issues we've been through here today, both to make user-driven personal assistance a universal right, regardless of hours and age, and the issue of where responsibility should lie, and not least whether it should be financed directly by the state, can become part of the mandate for the investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e1477	I don't want to pre-empt what that mandate is, because it's working on designing now. The mandate is also to be dealt with by the government before we finally establish it. Then the job starts by putting together a wide-ranging selection, and in this context, at least the government is going to emphasise that users and relatives are going to have the opportunity to be widely represented. We work as said with the mandate and will come back to it. The most important thing now is to make sure that we get a review of the system and make it work, so that this system becomes the equality tool that we want it to be – simply an opportunity for people to live free and good lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e1482	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e1487	There is a need to do something concrete because it takes a long time to create a NOU, and when that NOU is finished, work is to be done in the department, a proposition is to be made, and then it is to be dealt with in the Stortinget. This takes time – also because it is supposed to be a broad and thorough work. If in any way we are going to ensure that the municipalities fulfil their obligations, and the Storting has said quite clearly what it is, then the government should be able to write it down in a regulation and commit the municipalities to it, otherwise this will not happen. Yes, everyone can work in their parties. Yes, it is fully possible to do that country across the country. However, if commitments are unclear in this area, these needs will be behind those that are legally and clearly committed in legislation in all other areas. I would encourage the government to really think about this. It was quite obvious the day we passed the law, it has been clear all the way after, and it has to be in place. To this end, with the mandate: the funding of the scheme will be absolutely crucial for how we achieve it. If this scheme is to be fought about the future crowns of the municipal budgets – against major needs such as care for the elderly, care needs of children, many, many important things – this will still not be met at the level needed. For all practical purposes, user-driven personal assistance is an aid. It's an aid to the individual to live a life of his own — whether you're at work or not, whether you're at school or not, whether it's in the daytime or in the evening. Some people need this practical assistance in order to make the decisions and choices in their own lives that we – everyone else – take as a matter of course. That is why this should be financed from popular interest, as other means become. Then we also get away from the fact that some municipalities are rich, some are poor, some are at ROBEK, some have a lot of money. Then the funding of this vital system for people with disabilities will have a secure funding in the public interest, the state, and it will be similar across the country. It is absolutely necessary that funding be the main task of this NOU to be developed.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e1502	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e1520	Ensuring good health and promoting the quality of life for all, regardless of age, is the very objective of health policy. It's important for each of us, but it's also crucial for the society we live in. Poorer public health contributes in the long run to weakening the welfare state. The State of Health Report of the National Institute for Public Health in Norway is a disturbing reading. The report shows that the social health disparities in Norway are increasing, and they are larger in Norway than in many other European countries. Last week new research was presented to show that men with high incomes can expect to live up to 14 years longer than those with the lowest income. I believe that inequality in health is fundamentally unfair. As a community, we cannot accept that the background and income should determine how long people live, and how much disease is loaded. It is somewhat unhealthy that people with lower education can expect to get worse health and live shorter than those with high incomes. Psychiatric disorders are among the main public health challenges in Norway. Studies show that between 16 pst. and 22 pst. of adults in Norway have a mental illness, and as much as 7 pst. pre-school children have mental symptoms similar to mental illness. Psychological unhealth is a feeling for relatives, for those who are affected, and for society. These challenges need to be met with high priority and systematic public health work. In the Public Health Communication Mestring and opportunities presented by the government in 2015, the government presented its ambitions for public health work programmes. The Communication lists the main measures taken by the government to follow up the new areas of action, to strengthen efforts aimed at children and young people and to ensure a broad focus on public health. The public health communication describes the very purpose of the programme. The aim is to contribute to ‘the long-term strengthening of the work of municipalities in promoting the health of the population’. The programme should focus on mental health and prevention. Children and young people shall be a priority target group. Psychiatric health shall be integrated as an equivalent part of public health work. And the programme should be an important instrument for integrating this very perspective into local public health work. Furthermore, it states that the programme: ‘shall contribute to strengthening the cross-sectoral mechanism and the political anchoring of public health’. In 2017, the programme for public health work in the municipalities came into effect, and it should now be a ten-year bet. The Agder counties, Oslo, Vestfold, Oppland and Østfold have participated in the programme since its launch. They received five-year support signals from the Health Directorate and from 2019 all counties receive grants. The importance of getting a good, systematic public health job is something that has been pointed out by several teams. The National Audit Office presented its public health survey in 2015. It pointed out that most municipalities had not established systematic public health work, that public health work was not sufficiently knowledge-based, and that public health work was not well anchored in sectors that are not in health. Among the recommendations of the Ministry of Health and Welfare of the National Audit Office was that the Ministry should contribute to a closer follow-up to measures supporting local and regional public health work. The public health programme presented in the previous public health report seemed to be about to meet the criticism given by the National Audit Office. It seemed to be a flagship for the government. Given the government's ambitions for the programme, it is a pity that it is not followed up with sufficient predictability. We're familiar with the numbers. The inequality in health is increasing. Norway is moving in the wrong direction towards achieving the target of reducing obesity and diabetes by 2025, and the figures for mental health disorders speak for themselves. So now the government's flagship in the field of public health is being threatened with cutbacks. In answer to written questions, the Minister for the Elderly and Public Health described the situation as follows: ‘The increase of the year does not allow for the inclusion of all the counties without adjusting the grants to the counties that have already established the programme. The Ministry of Health and Welfare has therefore asked the Directorate of Health to assess whether the counties participating in the programme from 2017 to 2018 can obtain a revised financial envelope from 2019.» The municipalities have started a huge job. They have had workshops to come up with good local measures, they have hired people, and they have taken action that is aimed at children and the mental health of young people. But the municipalities are not followed up with the sufficient predictability that they deserve. In order to say that all the counties participate in public health work programmes, the money is only slightly thinner, resulting in cuts for the counties that have participated since the start-up. The aim of the programme itself was precisely described in the Public Health Communication, which would contribute to the long-term strengthening of the work of municipalities. Predictability was central. Providing predictability to the municipalities, an opportunity to be able to invest in long-term public health work, is precisely what has been the main criticism of all public health work has been about, and now the flagship itself of the government is beating its legs under it in many states. Now, the situation is that, as a consequence of the cutback in the grant, actions aimed at children and young people need to be assessed, and what is perhaps most important is that there is considerable uncertainty about next year's subsidies – only to be lubricated even thinner than five years, six years, or will be effectively cut from the subsidy framework we have been promised. Then I wonder: Does the Council of State mean that cutting public health programmes in the municipalities contributes to the long-term and predictability of public health work locally?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e1566	The Public Health Programme shall contribute to the ability of municipalities to carry out knowledge-based work to promote the health of children and young people. Contributions from the public health programme shall contribute to the development of local public health work by municipalities, with transfer value to other municipalities. In addition, competence building and dissemination of knowledge-based methodologies and forms of work are an important objective of the Programme. I would like to take the opportunity to say that I am very pleased with the reception of the public health programme has got out in the municipalities. The public health programme responds to the needs of municipalities to strengthen their efforts to include mental health and quality of life as part of public health work. And it has already given rise to local public health work. Employees in counties and municipalities report that the programme has laid the foundation for working in a new way and acting on a completely different scale than before in order to integrate mental health into public health work. They promote cooperation between the municipality and research communities as particularly useful. In several municipalities, there is also cooperation between the municipality and volunteering, and municipalities report that they involve children and young people in the work. So far, more than 75 projects are under way, and a number of new measures are expected in the counties from this year. The measures shall take into account, inter alia, the following: on the balancing of social health differences, parental competence, increased well-being in kindergarten, better cooperation around children and young people, mastering and good mental health in school, increased participation and activity of children and young people and the establishment of good places to meet. In particular, I would like to draw up a project in Eastfold: Thought Force – a lifelong learning programme for high school students. The project shall test whether the skills of young people to master daily loads can be strengthened. The programme provides young people with knowledge of good mental health and good ways to master challenges. It can help them deal with daily challenges and adversity. Last spring, about 170 teachers received an intensive training week in the Tankekraft programme. Both teachers and students have been involved in shaping the content of the course. The Public Health Institute is following the project and will investigate whether Thought Force strengthens students' quality of life, self-esteem, self-control, school characters and belief in their own abilities. The Foundation shall also examine the prevention and reduction of mental distress such as anxiety and depression and school dropout. The study will provide new knowledge on how to use such skills training to improve mental health, enhance school performance, prevent school drop-outs and reduce mental distress among high school students. This is one example of the many measures being taken. When actions have been evaluated and experience gained, it is important to ensure that knowledge is disseminated and benefited the whole country. From this year on, all the counties of the country are included in the public health programme. To achieve this, an adjustment was made to the support for the first five states participating in the project. These are also the countries that have already received the largest share of the grant pot in the programme. This adjustment will now allow all counties of the country to strengthen public health work through the Programme. The government has done a lot to strengthen public health beyond the public health programme. Only for 2019 we granted 1.3 billion. kr to strengthen health centre and school health services. This is important prevention work. We have reduced waiting times in mental health protection for both children and adults. From 2013 to 2018, the waiting time for children and young people was reduced by six days and for adults by nine days. We are concerned that volunteering should have good conditions to contribute to public health work. For this reason, we have provided grants to non-governmental organisations that facilitate visiting and activity friends in the care of the elderly. We also give grants to the project Active in 100. Through this effort, the Norwegian Tourist Association and the Red Cross offer walking groups to seniors throughout the country. These are measures that help to prevent and improve public health in municipalities. However, the responsibility for strengthening public health rests not on the state alone. Municipalities have a separate responsibility to care for the health of their citizens. Therefore, municipalities that have been reduced during this round may choose to set aside funds for the public health measures in question. Municipalities should also facilitate close cooperation with volunteers, who are already doing a great job of strengthening public health in the population. Volunteers report a strong desire to contribute to this, but it depends on local authorities facilitating it. Taking on-the-job volunteering can work together to create attractive and reasonable public health measures in municipalities. It doesn't always have to cost that much, it's about being creative and working on a team.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e1591	I think we can all agree that the work done in Eastfold and many other places is positive. I even encourage the Council of State to take a trip to Eastfold and visit the high schools and the amazing Thought Force project there. But when you sum up that it doesn't rest on the state alone, I think it's an oversimplification when the state has just invited in, promised a sum of money and then says no, you know what, we changed our mind. There has been great confusion about funding, and now we see that later on it has been sent out by the Health Directorate to the participating states that adjust the framework beyond extending it for six years, which were originally communicated by the government. Now we're in a situation where the counties, the municipalities, the projects and the measures don't know what they're up to. Among those who have worked hard to get measures aimed at children and young people in place, Telemark. In Telemark, they have focused on the action called Young Arena, which is to be a social meeting place and a low-threshold assistance service for children and young people. Telemark now reports that they have already started recruitment processes, but due to the cuts reported in 2020, the positions will already be at risk. Next year you'll need 2.5 million. in Østfold, for the measures already notified. In reality, this means that Eastfold cannot continue all the projects as planned. In the Agder counties, four major programming initiatives have been launched, one of which is New Patterns – Safe Growth. You have to go in there completely to see exactly what the families need. But a cut really means fewer family coordinators and that municipalities have to stop their work. Another project is health promotion schools and kindergartens. Here Agder reports that the work will only be done halfway. Better multidisciplinary efforts are another important measure, and there is a need to work with timely help for children and young people. Here, Agder also reports that they are afraid that the measure will be scrapped by a reduction. Many signals have been sent to the counties, and the municipalities and those who are out there to deliver these measures to children and young people are confused. What is it really supposed to be able to expect of grants in the years to come? Is it possible to plan just to get public health work done and make sure that children and young people get inclusion areas locally, or do you need to take over the signals now sent from the Health Directorate?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e1606	I would like to start in a rather positive tone, because in the work on public health in Norway, for example, we have quite good results. looks at how long people live. It is, of course, a combination of treatment options, drugs and everything that has come on that side, but it is also about the fact that the population eats healthier, trimmers more and simply follows advice that comes from the authorities – not everyone, but more. That's why this is a story that's really very good. We now see, according to 2017 figures, that men live on average until they are over 80 years old and women until they are about 84 years old. I think it's important in these public health discussions, where everything often sounds a little dark, that it's actually good results to point out, even though we're obviously going to work to reduce the inequalities in health and address all the major challenges that are. So for 2019, it's almost 80 million. kr to this program. In Norway, there are no multi-annual budgets – there are very few parties in this room who want to have. Therefore, it is necessary to adapt the framework, irrespective of the activities involved, to what is adopted in the State budget, if you are dependent on revenue from it. I am very pleased with the job done. The framework for the 2020 budget will not be known until October. There's no one who can advance what's going to lie there. We know we're going into a time when there's a lot of big problems to solve in society, and where the financial framework is getting tighter. But this is regardless of a work that the government has prioritised, and that we're going to continue to prioritise.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e1617	This is a long-term debate, with the new Minister of Public Health in place, on what is the government’s public health effort — including a concrete issue on the financing of the public health programme. The Council of State made the final statement that we have had a successful public health policy in Norway, and that is absolutely true. We still have a high standard of living – although we're not on top of the world anymore, we have a high standard of living, and we're relatively healthy. Everything is relative: we are a healthy population, and we are doing well – public health policy is our success in Norway. But it is also the case that we have increased social health inequalities in Norway, and they increase more than in other countries. There's no reason in the world that we should have increased social health inequalities in Norway, then there's something wrong with politics. Then we know that there are lifestyle diseases that make us have increased social health differences and ill health, and that's not good. But what's good is that this can be largely prevented; these are things that we can easily do with politics and facilitate. Risk factors are physical inactivity, diet, drugs, and radiation – four simple areas that a political person can go in and put around a frame to make the good choices easier. That is what public health policy is all about, and we must, on the part of the European Parliament, encourage structural measures. I heard the government say that one has given money to health centres and school health services. It's all right, but what's even more important and essential is to prevent someone from coming to a health centre, that is, having a primary prevention policy that is just about the risk factors. Then, of course, the school health service is also important in the prevention work, but we must not forget the so-called structural measures. So to the Public Health Programme: this was presented by the government as almost the only concrete measure that the government would take when it comes to public health. Not one would introduce an hour of physical activity in the school, not a listener would talk about free school food, a distant free fruit and green, and when we talked about solarium, radiation and the danger for children and young people, it was not about looking at any more regulations to prevent, for example. We heard in the media yesterday that there was a huge increase in Norway. But the public health programme came, and the municipalities were happy, because the municipalities need something concrete to stick to. We also end up with this programme, but we have always been critical of funding. I think that when the public health programme came, there was a commitment to the 2017 budget – well – but there were no new funds; funds were scrapped from all other public health posts to this programme. It turned out from day one that there was no willingness for a real new public health initiative in this program. And now we're saying that just to get all the states involved, a cut must be in the funds that one had. I understand that a government council here and now can't forward what comes in the government budget for next year. But this isn't good enough, if that's what this is going to show what a meaning of public health work is. Of course, there are others on a government budget that can be said to be about prevention and public health, but the health budget is large. So we're going to get 140 billion. kr – is well – for hospitals, and we use very, very little on prevention. My point is that we give a lot, a lot of money for treatment and relatively little for prevention. If we are to prevent increasing social health inequalities in Norway, we need a much clearer public health commitment from the government. You can start by securing real and good funding for public health work in municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e1634	I noticed in something the Council of State said related to advice from the authorities, and that it is important that we have good public health in Norway. We know, for example. that communication staff at the FHI, the Institute for Public Health, work with advice related to vaccines, and we have other departments working with dietary councils, alcohol, tobacco, sunbathing, etc. precisely to prevent and prevent disease and to reduce the costs of specialist health care. The promotion party’s health policy figure was a short time ago and said that it wanted to reduce the number of communication staff in the Ministry of Health and Welfare by 48 posts – 17 of these are linked to the FHI. I think it would have been interesting to hear the Minister of Public Health's considerations about this, all the time she stresses the value of public information.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e1641	Public health programmes have been a good subsidy scheme to strengthen more systematic efforts to develop and disseminate new actions and tools to improve public health in municipalities. The Public Health Act is also a historical law that obliges municipalities to do more than before. The Councils reported on, inter alia: the redistribution. Now Troms, Nordland, Møre and Romsdal, Sogn and Fjordane, Rogaland, Buskerud and Hedmark are included in the scheme. It's important not to look blind in one scheme. We are concerned about the need to work for public health for children and young people from several teams, and the offer must be user-friendly and close. This is why the Left is involved in the school health service. Health care professionals play a key role in improving public health among children and young people. That is why the Left has provided a historical escalation of school health services and health centres by a total of 1.3 billion. kr in fresh means. Physical activity is also important for public health. Many have learned a lot and have had good memories of the organised child and youth sport and of unorganized activities. This is important for both mental and physical health and should therefore be central to public health. Studies show that early experience in sports also affects training behaviour later in life. I'm still training myself at the karate club I started when I was six, and I see how much fun kids and kids get to do sports together. There is a great deal of voluntary effort in sport, but for some families it is still too expensive. For government parties, it is therefore also important to strengthen public health work for children and young people through a leisure card. By covering the participation fee for leisure activities, the leisure card will provide a great opportunity for all children from 6 to 18 years of age. Students’ health and well-being studies, SHOT, showed severe psychiatric symptoms among one in four students in 2018. This is very serious. As a school health service, student relationships are close to the students. In order to strengthen student welfare, the Left struggled, and received funding for lowthreshold mental health measures, and this brought the students public health measures close to themselves. Public health programmes are important for the development of good practices from which all municipalities can learn, but good prevention in municipalities requires much more. Unfortunately, the left has been alone at Stortinget to want to transfer more money to the municipal work on primary health care, prevention and early intervention. We are fighting for this rather than for the big batches of more growth in health businesses. It gives a completely different long-termity and predictability in the work of municipalities. And that's how I can keep going. We need to keep working to improve public health for children and young people. It is easy to see blindness in one scheme, but there is a whole range of targeted measures that are crucial.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e1658	People who struggle with serious mental and drug problems live up to 20 years shorter than the general population. This is one of the biggest and worst inequalities we have between people in our country. One of the reasons why this group has a shorter life span is that somatic diseases and lifestyle challenges are not detected. They just don't get the same help as other patients. That's an inequality we can't live with. This is also part of what we define as public health. So far this year, the government has introduced six new packages for people with mental and drug problems and for children and young people who are struggling with eating disorders. Package trajectories are funded, and the aim and purpose of them is for more of our citizens to live longer and with better quality, and for social health differences to be reduced. About a year ago, it was decided that schools should strengthen their efforts to crack the reading code in primary school. This is also an important measure to prevent drop-outs from high school and to enable far more to receive higher education and through higher income, as the public health report shows, to reduce social health inequalities. About a year ago, the government presented the Integration promise. The bet shall include, inter alia: have more immigrants through school and into working life, which will help reduce social health inequalities. The government cooperates with industry to reduce the content of salt and sugar in food products. This is a small and almost invisible measure that will reduce the number of people who die from non-infectious diseases, and by reducing social health inequalities. The reform Life throughout life has, among other things, as a goal of improving the quality of life and reducing the entrepreneurship of older people. By lifting the good examples from the municipalities that provide good services, the aim is to raise the quality of the municipalities that do not provide such good services. Life throughout life helps balance the differences between municipalities and reduce the social health differences among people. There are many examples of the government implementing a series of measures that individually strengthen public health. The Government Platform provides even more examples of measures to be implemented by the government that will reduce the social health inequalities in Norway. Many public health measures are financed from budgets other than those of the Ministry of Health and Welfare. We are absolutely not in the target, and much more action needs to be taken, not least because three million of our citizens are underactive. These we have to get more active somehow. My point is that it's not as dark as the interpellant wants it to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e1679	This interpellant has not said that the world is dark or gray. On the other hand, I have pointed out that there has been a lot of good public health work in the municipalities. And then I've referred to statistics about which there's a great deal of excitement in the Institute of Public Health, which just show that the social inequality in health is increasing. I can agree with the representative Larsen that it is a little dark and gray. But all the commitment that's out there is amazing. It's just sad that it doesn't meet with the necessary predictability. It is referred from the Council of State that we live longer and that it is positive. Yeah, I agree that it's amazing, but what's not so great is that it's not random who lives anymore. Those of us who have education or serve a little bit more than others, can statistically live longer and be healthier. It's not okay. We can't have it like that, and it's just about public health work. The very objective of the Public Health Programme is to meet the predictability that municipalities and states need in order to deal with the systematic distortions of society. So it's said that the government works from several teams. But at the same time, there are several proposals in this room that deal with school fruit, school food and systematic work for physical activity in school. The Health Directorate has sent out clear signals to the states that are involved. Of course, it means something to cut the appropriations – 6 million. kr less to Agder if you want the programme period to get what is planned for next year, or 4 million. to Telemark if the programme period is to receive what is planned for the next year. Of course, this means that there will be fewer interventions for children and young people out there, fewer meeting places to improve the mental health of children and young people. I think that's a shame. The fact that the Council of State indicates that we have annual budgets is to prevent the government's commitment to public health work, I do not understand. The government prioritizes what the government believes is important. There is nothing to prevent the Council of State from giving priority to children and the mental health of young people. I had hoped that the Council of State today would give a signal as to what the states can expect in the years to come. Now they're sitting out there falsifying and they don't know what to budget with. They've hired people, but can they still be employed? They plan measures, they equip the work for children and the mental health of young people, but they do not know what to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e1697	It starts with the kids. Doing even more there is incredibly important, and of course there is the school crucial. Now it's going to work to put more physical activity into school, but I have to say that it doesn't help when you, for example. in the field of sport, see what it costs to participate. I even have two kids going to football here in Oslo. So for one child, one person pays $4,000 a year to play football. It can as far as I and my husband pay without any problem, but there are many in this city for which this will be a big cut in the economy. So in addition to the fact that the state has a task, I believe many others also have a task, including: sport, by facilitating its use for all, and by providing prices and arrangements to maximise participation. Then it is good that this government works to get a leisure card in place to ensure that these children have at least one activity to cover. I think a lot of people who have a problem, whether it's with obesity, tobacco or alcohol, feel marginalized, feel stigmatized, and I don't think putting these people on an even worse conscience, so they feel even worse, will lead to some development in public health work. On the contrary, I'm pretty sure it's about motivating, it's about finding models that can show them that it's possible, those who have managed to get out of different challenges themselves. I don't think top-rate people are role models for people who are going to start to slim down, but I think that the representative Hoksrud can be a very good example for follow-up. It's about how we communicate and how we work. When it comes to the number of communication staff in the Institute of Public Health, I haven't gone into it, but I'm always looking for savings opportunities to spend money differently. In this particular case, I can't answer whether it makes sense here and now, but I'll always look with light and light to find money we can spend out there, where it does something for people, in the best possible way. Whether it's communications consultants or filling up the public health program, I need a little time to look into it, and the government has to assess it. We do a lot, spend a lot of money, and it's not dark. But I'm very happy that the commitment in this room is so great for people, because it means mass in the job that is done in the daily by thousands of volunteers, employees in municipalities and others who work for the public.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e1712	The debate on substance is then closed. Eight is going to be over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e1728	Over the next decades, we will see a sharp increase in the number of older people in Norway. According to the population projections of the SSB in 2018, there will be twice as many over 70 years in 2060, three times as many over 80 years and four times as many over 90 years. This does not happen in 40 years’ time — the basket of older people grows steadily and steadily, while the proportion of economically active people goes down. By 2020, there will be 4.3 active per-pensioners. In twenty years the number is down to 3.1. For some district municipalities, the ratio is one to one. This is dramatic, and from 2025 we must be clear. Then the challenges start with enough staff and good enough housing for the elderly to meet us seriously. We must succeed in public health policy in order to succeed in the policy of the elderly. That is why today's two interpellations, from my colleague Elise Björnebeck-Waaagen and me, are well connected. Preventive measures in relation to diet, exercise and health-oriented alcohol and tobacco policies mean that many will be healthier than before. Good health, a rich age and increasing life expectancy are a good thing. It is a strong symbol of our success in the construction of society. We're not going to talk about the elderly in Norway. We're not going to make older people feel that they're a burden. On the other hand, we have to recognize that the increase in the number of older people leads to some problems we have to solve. Because it's the end we get the extra years of life. We don't get an extra round in the 30s, or the 20s for that matter. The 30s I thought was quite hectic and tiring, to be honest. But by 2060, I'm over 80 years old. Good public health helps older people to be far healthier than before and to stay longer in their own homes, perhaps throughout their lives. The vast majority of the elderly want to live at home for as long as possible and be the boss of their own lives. But there's a hairy balance between staying at home as far as possible and staying for too long. Just as we have to succeed in public health policy in order to succeed in the policy of the elderly, so we have to succeed in housing policy in order to succeed in the policy of the elderly. In Life, there are, among other things, the following on housing: «Many older people own large and old dwellings which are consistently poorly adapted to disabled people and may have heavy access and several floors with stairs. For many older people it may be difficult to move, and therefore many people stay in a dwelling even if it is poorly suitable. About half the age of 50 and over have a dwelling they do not consider suitable for older years. Data from the 2007 Levy Year Survey showed that 30 to 40 per cent of the seniors live in dwellings with external or internal barriers.’» Many older people know that they live in a poorly suitable dwelling, but they cannot afford to find a more suitable dwelling. Because, although many older people have significant housing capital, there are also many older people who cannot switch the house into a top modern apartment. There's too much to pay between, especially for those who have the lowest pensions. And as this hall knows, for five years in a row, pensioners experience a weakening of their purchasing power with the government's pension scheme. Nevertheless, the strategy that older people should stay at home as far as possible is a broad political consensus. Good tools are needed. The home situation must be safe, and those living at home must have the possibility of social life and contact with others. If more older people are to be able to live safely at home, the provision of suitable housing for the elderly needs to be improved considerably and local services and activities need to be linked. Many elderly people are lonely and have poorer health as a result of social isolation. Access to social meeting places is therefore an important key to the success of housing policy. We need to build out the whole caretaker. Hospital places are the top step. And even though several older people are going to live longer at home, the need for nursing homes will increase considerably in the coming years. I think that's a cross-political agreement. Prior to the 2013 election, the leader of the Progress Party, Siv Jensen, concluded that there were 10 000 sick homes missing, while after six years of the Progress Party in government, there is actually a decline in the number of sick homes. This means that we are less equipped to meet the task of older people in society than we were when the Progress Party took up the government offices. Then I wonder if it is because the government thinks that the other steps in the care ladder should be expanded so strongly that the need for nursing homes is reduced. I look forward to hearing the aged and public health minister's thoughts on this. I don't think the need for nursing homes will be reduced in the coming years, but we can dampen the growth in demand by doing a series of grips. In fact, we have to do both parts, both build nursing homes and strengthen the entire care ladder. One measure concerns day-time activities for people with dementia. The contribution to these places has increased from 30 p.m. to this year's budget. to 50 p.m., an increase that was then against the votes of the government parties, and there is a grant scheme proposed by the government to liquidate in connection with the legalisation of day-to-day activities for people with dementia from 2020. Increasing the subsidy to people with dementia is not the only proposal the opposition has made. When the right-wing government was extended for the first time, the following proposal was unanimously adopted in the Grand Duchy in connection with the declaration debate last year. I quote Decision 438: ‘The government asks the government to present a case on how new forms of financing for housing for the elderly can contribute to reducing the need for nursing homes and other forms of health care.’ The current grant scheme for the construction of residential homes is reserved for people in need of happy care services, but many older people need an organised offer without needing services all day. Security housing can meet this need and provide the residents with security, community, practical assistance and various activities. The development of security housing will be in line with the intention of the interaction reform on early intervention and prevention can help to postpone or prevent hospitalisation. In Sweden, the established investment scheme for specific housing units was extended in 2010 to cover also security housing. Experience from Sweden suggests that this is a success, cf. morning care, as then Minister of Health Jonas Gahr Støre presented in 2013. During the lifetime treatment of Life, the opposition proposed the following: ‘The government is asked to make a change to the House Bank grant scheme for day care facilities in nursing homes and nursing homes, so that the grant schemes can also include housing without success.’ The parties to the Government voted against, but a unanimous representative from the Right made sure that the proposal was given a majority. It is not lacking in good ideas in this area, but it seems to be lacking in action. Like the toll question, where the Progress Party promised that it would be "free" in all bombings as long as they were in government, it seems that the Progress Party has also left its electoral promises to the elderly. My question to the Council of State and the Government is this: What has the government done to ensure new forms of housing and new financing arrangements for homes for the elderly, so that the need for a sick home place is postponed?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e1773	Never have the municipalities had access to such favourable investment schemes to build happy day care facilities as under this government. We've increased the state share of the cost from an average of 35 pst. for an average of 50 pst. If you take the VAT compensation, it means that the government covers up to 70 pst. the costs per slot. That is why a record high commitment has been made after the government change. A total of 15 500 happy days care places have been provided in the years 2014 to 2019. The proportion of older people will increase in the years to come, especially over 80 years of age. Many will live good and active years as pensioners, but we expect increased demand for health and care services, particularly among those over 80. As long as you feel safe in your own home, most people prefer to stay at home. For the sickest there is a hospital that is the solution, but there is also a group that does not feel safe at home, but also does not need a health home. For example, better home-based services combined with short lay-offs or day-care owner-occupied dwellings could be an alternative. It will be able to ensure the safety which is essential to the quality of life. When I was a City Councillor in Oslo, I took the initiative to set up such an intermediate level, Care+, which, after what I hear, has become a success, as we thought it would be. Such offers can also combat solitude, because you get into a community. Demographic developments mean that we need to think again. Among other things, we must: look at how we can exploit technology even better, how architecture can contribute to better design of housing and the local environment, and how we can bring about better user involvement. The government will create a more age-friendly Norway. Then we have to release the resource that older people are for their own lives and for society. The aim is for older people to participate in society and use their abilities as they wish. A age-friendly society cannot be created by state alone. This must be done in liaison with the actors concerned. It is about better adapting and being more aware of what it takes for older people to be active and independent for as long as possible. That is why we have set up the Age-Friendly Norway Council, where representatives from different organisations are involved, including the KS, the NHO, the Husbank, ICT Norway, research and, of course, representatives of the voluntary community and the Pensionist League. When we bring together actors with different positions to address societal challenges, we will get better and more age-friendly solutions. The Council shall, inter alia: contribute to the implementation of the age-friendly Norway programme. This includes measures such as planning your own age, developing retirement planning, getting more age-friendly municipalities, triggering the senior resource in volunteering and working life, and inviting partnerships across sectors. Older people want to be heads of their own lives, but we all tend to postpone things, like planning for a future of disability or getting a more suitable and safer home. As head of our own lives, we will be able to take greater responsibility for planning our own old age in the past, as the organization of our own housing. The age-friendly programme of Norway will contribute to information and ideas on how this can be done, and to raise awareness of what is going on in the day we need more organisation and help and services at home. This is what is needed. Studies show that many seniors consider their own housing as poorly adapted to a disability situation and that relatively few have implemented or plan to implement different types of accommodation adaptation. There is a high proportion of owner-occupiers among today's older people, and many older people have a solid economy. Some people sell the house and move into an apartment that is arranged for old age, but it is desirable that more people plan to take responsibility for arranging their own age. However, not all have the same prerequisites for the adjustment of owner-occupied dwellings or the purchase of new dwellings. There are also large geographical differences in housing prices. Therefore, adaptation and organisation of own old age cannot be limited to those who own their own dwelling. Measures are needed to make it easier for older people to stay at home, regardless of whether they are renting or owning them. The residential sector itself, architects and developers should also know their visiting time. This is also an opportunity for the industry, which should adapt the offers to make us older who have needs other than younger ones. The government believes that future dwellings should be more co-located with other public functions and meeting places. Co-location through e.g. Generational houses will create communities across generations and will be able to contribute to the prevention of solitude. Several municipalities, the House Bank and private actors are developing good housing solutions. That's what we're referring to in the big news Life for the rest of our lives. Another example is Århus municipality in Denmark, which has come a long way in the development of this type of project. Here a generation house is built where young people, families, people with disabilities, older people and caregivers are to live under the same roof. This requires municipalities to set aside land and facilitate the development of future housing solutions by looking at the need for nursing homes and nursing homes in the context of developments in the housing market in general. Different housing solutions are needed for the future. The government has therefore started work on a knowledge base in which we consider how best to organise the country’s instruments to ensure a diversity of forms of housing. Among other things, we have promote a consultation summit to propose concrete models or measures for the future housing of older people, including identifying and making visible opportunities and obstacles within current legislation and incentive schemes. In particular, we are asking that models of the type of generation houses and solutions allow people to live at home. We have also invited municipalities, user and interest groups and public and private actors to an inspirational seminar in June on future housing for the elderly. The aim of the seminar is to disseminate good experience and get input from relevant actors in the work. At the inspirational seminar, we will, for example: hear about the experience of Århus municipality with generation houses, as well as experience from user organisations and public and private actors. As you can see, the government is doing a good job of looking at how future housing for the elderly should be set up. In this work, we are concerned with diversity, both measures to enable more people to stay at home longer, and adequate development of the happy day care facilities for those who need it. We will return to Stortinget about the matter in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e1805	I am currently grateful for the main response to the Council of State, and note that we had many of the same considerations relating to the challenge we face and what we need to do in society in general to facilitate. I look forward to hearing more about the knowledge base and the assignment given, because this is urgent. As I said in my post, it's already in 2025 that this demographic challenge – to say it like that – really hits us with the full moon, so we can't spend so long on this. We have to get the solutions in place as soon as possible. I hear that there is a lot of focus in hospitals, and I fully agree that there is still a need to build far more hospitals than what we have today. Although the schemes have improved and may have been offered commitments etc., the reality is that the number of sick places was peaked in 2012. Since then it's just gone down. It's a challenge we all have to face. We need to build more hospitals, but we also need to strengthen the lower steps of the care ladder to dampen the pressure on the hospitals we have. There are some elderly people who have housing capital, although not everyone has it – I must stress that. You can imagine new construction projects where older people switch into their homes, which may not be so appropriate, in a more modern construction project, where house-banking of common land and home-service base makes you get a functional home for a cheaper money because you can have shared functions with others. It was one of the things we called for with the proposal, which reached unanimous agreement in this Chamber, to secure new forms of housing and new financing schemes for homes for the elderly, so that the need for a sick home place is postponed. I cannot stress enough how important it is to build the lower steps of the care ladder. I think we need more action. Not only can we have problem description and recognition that this is a task that needs to be solved, we also need to have the means, and we need to have the new funding mechanisms in place. And it's urgent.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e1818	What is very positive is that in recent years the government has arranged for municipalities to have been able to build record-breaking nursing homes with good luck. We see that the municipalities use the scheme to a very large extent – yes, fully. Building a nursing home or a nursing home usually takes about five years from planning – you have architects inside, you have to find land, you have to have tenders to build it. It is a rather long process, and therefore it is so important that the municipalities now use the resources and opportunities contained in these schemes. It also means that it is only now, perhaps in the last few years, that the means that this government has put in place are beginning to – you might say – appear in the form of construction, because it takes time for them to get ready after the money is there and all this work is going on. A problem is that some municipalities have chosen to accommodate hospitals. They have gone from having nursing homes to redefine it into nursing homes, solving it in another way. That gives some other economic incentive. That means you pay rent. That means you have the opportunity to get housing support. That means that the state takes the bill for drugs, unlike in hospitals, where it is the municipality that finances the drugs. I think that all of these things are important to go through to see if the incentives are good enough, right, and whether there is a need to make changes, for example. on it. That is why I intend to travel to the House Bank quite quickly to get a review of the tools they have, to see if they are rigged in a way that we have earned in the future, precisely because – there I fully agree with the interpellant – it is urgent to get out, roll out and build up the capacity needed when the post-war generation is increasingly beginning to need assistance and help and housing that is planned.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e1829	Thank you to the interpellant, who addresses a very important issue and one that we have had on the agenda in Stortinget for many years, without our success in getting a result. Things about security buildings and investment grants have been on the agenda since the red-green government submitted the care message, Report. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. In the message from the red-green government, it was suggested that security buildings be evaluated as an alternative between care facilities and ordinary dwellings. Security buildings were then described according to a model from Sweden. The Committee and the Stortinget joined the government’s proposal and felt it was both reasonable and desirable that the health care scheme and day-to-day care were also considered to be concerned with the development of safety housing. And that's what's at the heart of this interpolation. I can't see that the state council responded to just that concrete thing. In 2014, we know that both the Center Party, me and the Christian People's Party asked the government written questions about how this was followed up. The answer from Health Minister Höie at the time, in 2014, was that one would come back to Stortinget with an answer in the State budget. But it was not followed up, there was no mention in the state budget that came, nor afterwards. It has also been proposed and adopted at Stortinget, among others. in the context of the Government Declaration of January 2018, to ask the Government to present a case on how new forms of funding can help to reduce the need for sick homes and other forms of day-to-day care. This Decision has also not been followed up by the Government. The investment effort is still limited to hospitals and day-old care establishments, and cannot be used for security housing, as these are dwellings without full-day care. In Sweden, as many have pointed out, investment grants are granted for security buildings and the conversion of older dwellings, under the condition that they are rented dwellings, with requirements for a common area where one can eat food, have social activity, etc. There may be both municipal and private rentals, and there may be housing in barges. They are reserved for people over 65 years of age and are allocated as necessary. In Sweden, there are now more than 9,600 such security buildings. The centre party believes that we in Norway must have a corresponding investment in security buildings – according to a model from Sweden. It will be good for those who have difficulty living in their own homes, but who do not need all day care. It will also be cheaper for the big community and therefore better for them that debt. These dwellings can be easily integrated into existing residential areas, and this is good for integration. So now it's six years since the Storing first asked for this to be reconsidered, and it's been repeated several times in the Storing through plural comments, among other things. in the treatment of the State budget. And it has our proposals in Stortinget that the government has to sort this out. In fact, I don't think it's good enough when the council today says there's going to be an inspirational seminar, where all the good forces are going to come and discuss this again. We've come a lot further than that. The size has been clear many times that we want to have a concrete assessment of how the investment incentive for hospitals and day-to-day care can be extended to cover also security buildings. One cannot expect the municipalities to build a lot of security buildings out of their good will when they don't get one penny of the state to do it, so one has to get 50 pst. of the investment when building nursing homes and nursing homes. It's untimely, and the government has the Storting behind it, so here one actually just has to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e1842	I want to start by thanking the interpellant for raising an important debate. Although both the interpellant and several people have come across the need for more hospitals and nursing homes, at least I feel that the interpellant really knows this to apply more than that. I want to thank the interpellant for also putting the camera lens in the time before an elderly person needs the institution space of the day. To meet the challenges of the future, we need to put in place measures to postpone the need for professional health and care services. Then this is important with alternative forms of housing. The Christian People's Party and the government's policy have the ambition that people will live a worthy life, be the head of their own lives, which is a concept many of us have used today. This will apply throughout our lives, so it is important that we take the debate and expand the knowledge base on what is the real wishes and needs of the future. Then we can also develop an older policy that meets the real need. I believe that older people need much greater freedom of choice, that more offers need to be developed, not least in social housing. Safety housing is one track, and it's very important, but I think you have to try it out, among other things. collective forms of residence. Governments point to projects in Aarhus where older people can be a resource for each other — for others in the same situation. Here I think there is a rather large and unused potential that we should look into. It will also be part of and strengthen the natural communities, and it will be part of and nourish the natural communities. Social structures and networks around the dwelling need to be strengthened. Friendship, meaningful activity, generation meetings and the possibility of something as simple as good meals – all these must be integrated into this kind of thinking. Here I think that both housing units and communities should contribute more. Property developers and municipalities must start talking together and joining forces to solve an important societal challenge. This is an important matter for the government that can only be resolved in cooperation with the municipalities, and the Christian People's Party in government will follow this matter carefully, also because this affects the fight against loneliness. I very much appreciate this kind of debate, and I also appreciate, as I said, that this debate is about something far more than nursing homes and nursing homes. This is about facilitating old age. We know that older people need to live at home, and by thinking about alternative solutions here, I think we can get to very well. I just want to finish by saying thank you for this debate. I appreciate the fact that it was travelled.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e1857	Actually, I could have just dropped off coming up and joining the representative Geir Jørgen Bekkewold's posts, because that was very well summed up. But I'm a politician, after all, and get to make a little rounding, me too. It's very positive with both inspiration and knowledge, I think. There's nothing I want to talk down in any way. But action is urgent too. As the representative Toppe pointed out, there is nothing in the way that you can already start the change to use security housing, and that it can be covered by the government's grant. For the representative, Bekkewold, is quite right: although this debate has dealt with some areas of health care and health care, it was really the intention that it should be about everything other than that. The point is to build the lower steps of the care ladder, to build where there's not even any steps. And then the Council of State is so lucky that she also has responsibility in public health, which is very important to solve this problem. I myself, as rapporteur, have worked a lot with urban development and old age policy, and I think we need to use our elderly councils much more in the way we build up our neighbourhoods. I was out with the Pensioner Association last year and tried an old-age suit and felt how difficult it was to move out in the streets if one is stiff or unwell, or has poor vision or hearing. So the active involvement of older people in the design of urban development when building our neighbourhoods is very important. So we must not just build the caretaker, we must also build the surface on which the stairs are to be built.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e1866	I very much agree with the representative Moflag that the elderly councils need to be included more, and therefore the government is working to look at regulations relating to the elderly council, just to give them the opportunity to be more involved in the job that the municipality is doing, including in terms of land policy, for example. I believe it is important to look at the Husbank's device in the future, and it is a work I am doing so far. There's also reason to remember a little bit about the history here of this with security housing. When you started to build nursing homes and homes, a lot of nursing homes were built. What was mentioned at the time was that care-free housing was built – thousands were built around the country. That was why they tightened up the Husbank's arrangements, so that they would just go to nursing homes and nursing homes with good luck. That's why there's a question that comes to last and last: what should be a priority when we know that we're facing a development where there's more nagging elderly people, and also know that the financial frameworks are going to be so that we might have to give even stronger and tougher priority in different areas? The public has to do a lot of tasks, and then the seventh and last question will be whether the right thing is to invest in security housing, or whether we are going to continue to expand nursing homes and nursing homes with the crew of the lucky day. I think this has been a very important and good debate. I think there's going to be a lot of talk about this in the future. Many good forces out there are already on the trail. There are many private actors who want to contribute, and many municipalities that think new. I think it's very important to do that, because society always evolves, the needs evolve, and we have to hang out with it. I am pleased to continue this work, and we are going to discuss this matter again in this Chamber – at least I am fully convinced of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e1879	The debate on substance is closed. 9 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e1891	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e2066	Case No. 2 was a deal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e2303	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e2314	The law decision will be set up for second time treatment in a later Storting meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e2330	The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e2346	A total of 12 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1-3, by Lise Christoffersen on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposed no. 4-9, by Lise Christoffersen on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 10, from Per Olaf Lundtigen on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposed no. 11 and 12, from Per Olaf Lundtigen on behalf of the Centre Party, First, the proposal No. 11 and 12, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asked to define criteria for extension for those who need the benefit over three years. The amendment must provide room for discretionary judgement as to the individual’s need for the extension of the benefit period. Revalidation shall be granted, inter alia, when the recipient has not been completed or Nav and the public health service have not fulfilled their obligations. Authority for decision and, where appropriate, for decision the extension of the AAP period must be at the local Nav Office.’;» Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to the Storting with proposals that give rise to a demand in the labour market that leads to real equality for people with reduced working capacity.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals. The Socialist Left has already received subsidiary support.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e2385	Proposal No. 10, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to instruct Nav to review all cases where persons have lost the right to the AAP due to a reduced duration or as a result of restrictions on the exemption provisions, so that the AAP performance is continued in order to avoid these persons becoming dependent on social assistance.’; The Labour Party, the Greens and Reds have already supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e2402	Proposal No. 8, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit legislative amendments which set the period of benefit for redundancy payments up to four years and which define criteria for the real possibility of extension for those who need the benefit over four years. The amendment must provide room for discretionary judgement as to the individual’s need for the extension of the benefit period. Revalidation shall be granted, inter alia, when the recipient has not been completed or Nav and the public health service have not fulfilled their obligations. This authority must be located at the local Nav Office.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e2419	Proposal No. 4 to 7 and points 9, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to come back with legislative proposals that extend the possibility of using the derogation provided for in the second and third paragraphs of § 11-12 of the Swedish Social Security Act, in order to allow the AAP period to be extended after an individual assessment of needs, in line with the objective of being able to get the most out of work in full or in part.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the right to be extended to the recipients of redundancy benefits if the Nav and/or health services have not been able to clear up the user before the end of the period during which they can receive redundancy benefits.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to introduce increased requirements for Nav in the form of an obligation on the network to closely follow up the recipients of redundancy payments, in order to restore the reciprocity of the relationship between user and administration, as provided when the Nav reform was adopted.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that decisions on interim benefits, including the AAP, are taken in the first line as provided for when the Nav reform was adopted.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asked to take the initiative in concrete immediate poverty prevention measures that can be applied to those who have experienced and those who are now experiencing loss of income due to the reductions in the AAP.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals. The centre party has already received sub-sidiary support.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e2474	Alternatively, between the recommendation and the proposal No. 1, 2 and 3 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to take the initiative in establishing a right of activity for persons in need of action and follow-up from Nav. The Court of First Instance shall ensure that the individual is regularly followed up by measures individually assessed for each individual. Hub's obligation to follow up must be strengthened.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to propose the removal of the introduced withdrawal period in the AAP scheme and the reversal of the restrictions in § 11-5 of the People’s Security Act, where consideration other than disease was reduced.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to review quickly the consequences of the reductions in redundancy payments and to return to the Storting with a comprehensive explanation. The review shall, inter alia, respond to the number of persons who have been displaced by the conversion or who have fallen outside the system without municipal or state income security.»; The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e2507	During the debate, Mr Andersen presented two proposals on behalf of the Socialist Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to determine how the BPA scheme can be financed directly by the State and how the right to BPA hours can be granted directly by the State, with the aim of providing a uniform and continuous service offer irrespective of where in Norway the user lives and in a manner that ensures the intentions of the scheme.’;» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to amend the anti-discrimination legislation to include the right to information, goods and services for people with disabilities.’ These proposals and the recommendations of the Committee shall be replaced by an alternative vote. The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals. The Committee had recommended that the Storting should do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e2540	In Case No: 8 and 9 have no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-05-23.ana.ud182e2570	As a result, the matters on today's map have been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
