ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e103	It summons the alternate of the Buskerud County, Tone Heimdal Brataas, taking no seat. The representative, Mr Bøhler, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e113	On behalf of the representatives of Jonas Gahr Støre, Lene Vågslid, Maria Aasen-Svensrud and I would like to make a proposal for a representative on an action plan against violence and threats with knives.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e118	The representative, Maria Aasen-Svensrud, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e123	On behalf of the representatives of Lene Vågslid, Jan Bøhler, Hadia Tajik, Kari Henriksen, Ingvild Kjerkol and myself, I am very pleased to present a proposal for a representative on measures to combat networking.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e128	The representative of Une Bastholm will put forward four drafts.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e133	I am pleased to present four representative proposals: one on the regulation of dog rearing, one on the introduction of mandatory dog and cat ID marking and one proposal on an active rainbow policy to strengthen gender and sexual diversity. The fourth is a proposal for a representative on new measures for reducing emissions in municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e138	The representative of Mona Fagerås will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e143	I would like to make a proposal on behalf of Mr. Audun Lysbakken and myself on a proposal on the structure of schools and the prohibition of profits for the benefit of students and students.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e149	The representative, Mr Andersen, would like to put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e154	On behalf of the major representatives of Lars Haltbrecken, Une Bastholm and myself, I would like to make a proposal on temporary return to Afghanistan, the introduction of reasonable conditions in the internal flight assessment and an independent enforcement system for forced return. I ask that the proposal of the representative proposal for Decision No B 1, immediately return, be dealt with in accordance with Section 39(c) of the Rules of Procedure of the Stortinge, be presented to the representatives for one day and put up for debate the following day.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e161	The representative, Kjersti Toppe, will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e166	On behalf of the representatives of Liv Signe Navarsete, Nils T. Bjørke, Per Olaf Lundteg and myself, I would like to make a proposal for a new and modern policy of relatives. Then, on behalf of the representatives of Marit Arnstad, Heidi Greni and myself, I would like to make a proposal to secure patients safe outsourcing and decent transportation from hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e173	The representative, Sigbjørn Gülsvik, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e178	I would like to make a proposal, on behalf of the big business representatives, Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum, Liv Signe Navarsete, Ole André Myhrvold, Sandra Borch and myself, on the re-examination of Norway's accession to the EU's third energy market package.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e183	The proposal will be managed in accordance with the rules of procedure. Before the matters are dealt with on the map for today, the President will inform you that the meeting is continuing beyond noon today. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e203	The Presidency is promoting this proposal for amendments to the Storting Rules of Procedure which facilitate the introduction of fixed voting times. It is proposed that the changes will enter into force from 1 October of this year, so that from the next session we can start with fixed voting times. Since 1995, the size has increased over today’s cases at the end of each meeting. Before 1995, there was a vote after each case. The time may now be needed to take another step to adapt to a reality that allows representatives to also carry out many tasks outside the Storting, even in their role as magnificence representatives. The issue of voting time has been raised several times, not later than 2016-2017 by the previous Regulatory Committee. In the position of the then presidency, Innst. 487 S for 2016-2017, the previous presidency stated that there should be a survey of voting practices in the parliaments of other countries and, where appropriate, proposed alternatives to current voting practices. This has been followed up by the current presidency. The Presidency has also made a thorough assessment of the often conflicting considerations involved in such a conversion of Storting's practice, and the Presidency has discussed key issues with the leaders of the party groups. It has been important for the presidency to ensure that the changes we are now making are in keeping with the desire of the representatives for predictability, while at the same time ensuring that progress in the work of the Storting is still good and as effective as possible. On the issue of the introduction of fixed voting times, the presidency has split into a majority and a minority, and I expect the minority to explain its views. The practice of voting at the end of the meeting means that one can only be expected to know when voting will take place, and when the Storting has finished dealing with the cases for the day. This gives the staging representatives little flexibility to plan their own time. As representatives, we also have many tasks outside the Storting, and being able to meet voters, meet businesses, interest groups, participate in debates in the media, etc. requires a certain predictability in order to make agreements to this effect. This is a predictability – if the Storting today adopts fixed voting times – that will probably be loved by those who relate to the Storing and the Biggers. It can also be mentioned that even though many of the depositors commute here and are in Oslo during the week, there are many who have moved here with small children, and there are also depositors who commute home with small children. For some representatives it will probably be more family friendly that you have voting at fixed times. The majority of the Presidency therefore considers that there is a need for greater flexibility in terms of requirements for the physical presence of representatives on the Grand Duchy and that it would be beneficial for the working day of the representatives and for planning that the voting can take place at a more fixed time than at the end of the meeting. Having said that, I would nevertheless like to stress that such a conversion should not be at the expense of progress in Storting's work. When the physical presence of the Storting is reduced, it will give each representative and not least the committees a greater responsibility to make sure that they themselves keep progress in the matters they are dealing with, and it will follow closely the Presidency. The transition to fixed voting times involves a significant change, and I would therefore like to make a few comments on the concrete proposals that are available. With regard to the time of voting itself, the Presidency has assessed several different options in terms of both the days and timing of voting. This has also been the subject of discussions with the parliamentary leaders. In order to balance and ensure different considerations, the majority of the Presidency considers that voting should be added as a general rule to the afternoon on Tuesdays and Thursdays, 15 a.m. and 14 p.m. respectively. This will address the need for predictability of representatives while at the same time being able to argue about most of the issues on the same day as the debate. The majority of the meeting days during a session end early enough that with these times you will be able to vote over all of today's matters, as today. The Presidency proposes to depart from this during the pre-Christmas and pre-Summer interview periods. There are then very many cases and long voting, and it would be not appropriate to push the decision of the cases over to the next day. It is therefore proposed that these periods should be suffocated every day. During the pre-Christmas period, it is proposed, in the interests of consideration of the budgets of the various technical committees, to vote at the end of the meeting each day, as today. It is important for me to stress that even if the Storting goes to fixed voting times as a general rule, there will sometimes be a need to make exceptions. Some exceptions will be more or less firm, such as: voting at the end of the meeting before Christmas, Easter and plenary weeks, but there may also be situations where the fixed dates have to be waived. The Presidency will endeavour to inform as soon as possible of such deviations, as is the case today. Due to the need for some flexibility, it is proposed not to include the actual timing of voting in the Rules of Procedure. Instead, a more general provision is proposed that ‘the cases are put to the vote at a time specified in advance by the Presidency.’ This means that the Presidency will set the next week’s voting time together with the weekly and long-term programmes. In principle, it is then the two fixed dates that will be decided, but it will therefore be possible to derogate from the general rule if it is more appropriate for the effective liquidation of the Storting meeting. With the conversion the Stortinget has now been asked to adopt, which gives greater predictability and flexibility to the representatives of the Storing Group, it can no longer be expected that the Stortinget will be decisive other than at the start of the meeting and at voting time. However, procedural decisions arising during a meeting must be made on a regular basis. The Presidency will therefore propose that the possibility of taking decisions on some procedural issues be added to the President, i.e. the one who presides at all times. For example, it will. the decisions on the allocation of speaking time according to the Rules of Procedure § 51 and 52, access to the replacement of lines according to § 53, immediate debate following an explanation under § 45 and a proposal on the postponement of a case under § 41. This is necessary in order for the Storing meeting to be effectively conducted without undue delay or delay pending the presence of a sufficient number of representatives. However, it could give the President greater influence over procedural matters than is the case today. Finally, I would like to mention that the presidency will carry out an evaluation of the new arrangement after it has been practised through one session. The evaluation will include: look at whether adequate benefits are obtained from the conversion, whether the change has had an impact on the Storting as the relevant arena for political debate and whether the progress of the committee has been affected. I hope that this change can contribute to greater flexibility and predictability of the representatives so that they can take good care of all aspects of the landfill. I also want to add that these are arrangements that our colleagues in both Folketing in Denmark and Riksdag in Sweden have. They practice fixed voting times in a way that is comparable to what the presidency is now proposing, and have completed that process in a good way. I look forward to launching the new scheme for the autumn and hope this will be a solution that serves both the Storting and the elected people.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e241	As the President-in-Office did well in his speech, the presidency is divided into a multiple and a minority in this matter. Like the plurality of the previous Regulatory Committee, we believe that the system we have today, with voting at the end of the sitting, is the most sensible, and we therefore do not support the proposed amendments to the Rules of Procedure. In addition to the ordinary bulk work, we as representatives participated to a large extent in activities outside the Storting. As the majority have pointed out, the fixed voting time will make it more conservative, so it will be easier to plan to participate in other activities outside the house. However, there are a number of challenges involved in changing the system we have today, and I would like to point out some of the most important objections to the fixed voting time. Firstly, in our opinion, it is fundamentally wrong to separate debate from voting, so that voting may come in a different day from the debate. Although it is often such that the outcome in a matter is rather obvious on the basis of the committee's position, it is the formal voting that gives the final decision. The meeting plan we have in Stortinget, with mainly plenary Mondays and Fridays and Question Time on Wednesdays, means that the matters that are not voted on the same day, will first be decided several days after the debate. As a result, voting will appear out-of-date when it actually happens. I can take one example: In the last week, the Storting debated and voted on the closure of fur nutrition. I think it would have been quite unsustainable if the decision in this matter had not come within several days of the debate. I can also learn that that day it was asked for a full hall. Would it have been a full hall both days, in the event of a tie to the fixed voting time? How would one have solved that challenge? A matter that is first resolved several days later may also result in a pressure against a party with a decisive voice to change their perception between debate and voting. There may also be pressure on parties to change on proposals that have been debated. This is unfortunate and may lead to a rematch on issues that have already been debated. In addition, it is difficult and unfortunate to communicate, both for the Storting and for the representatives and the party groups, when the debate does not end with a conclusion on the same day. One of the arguments for introducing a fixed voting time is that it should be possible to combine the big business with a family life and other activities. I wrote that down. But as it works today, it must be said to be well prepared for it. The size has less than 100 plenary sessions in a year. Among these are between 60 and 70 with voting at the end of the meeting. The statistics show that about half of these meetings are completed by noon. 16th@item: inlistbox This means that there are not many days in a year when representatives must be present after 1 p.m. 16 because they are going to participate in the vote. Most of the voting today in the evening is related to the polling periods before Christmas and before summer, and one should have an exception, so that one should vote at the end of the day anyway – and this must be a good part of the year. The stuttering mainly lasts until noon. 10, which must also be said to be family-friendly compared to the situation of most workers. In addition, we have a replacement arrangement that results in 40 pst. representatives do not need to be present at the vote. From this it must be said that today’s system makes it possible for us as representatives to be able to carry out both family life and other activities outside the Storting. Another concern for us who make up the minority is how this could affect the progress of committee work. When voting is collected at a fixed time in the week, the representatives of the committees will be freer to give priority to other activities outside the house. If the committee following this meeting is not allowed to have a regular committee meeting or if the meeting is too small to allow the committees to take decisions, it may not be ignored that this would lead to delays in progress in several cases. To come up with settings, to debate matters in plenary and to vote is between our primary tasks as big business representatives. We can't ignore this to others. It must be done by us as representatives, and it must be done here in Stortinget. In this context, I would also like to mention that there is a danger that the introduction of a fixed voting time, with the consequence that fewer people are present here in the Stortinge, and that therefore there will be less participation in the debates in the Grand Hall, will in the long term lead to a weakening of interest for the Stortinge as the arena for political debate. There is an development we don't want. Finally, I would also like to say something about the delegation of some procedural questions that the Stortinget is now being invited to adopt. For example, it is now up to the President to conduct the Grand Meeting, to decide whether a case should be postponed if a proposal is made to that effect. This now suggests the majority as an amendment to Section 41 of the Rules of Procedure. Such decisions may have political consequences regardless of outcome, and in my opinion it may be problematic to add such decisions to the President, who also represents a political party. I'm glad that the presidency will evaluate the new system after a session. So it's to hope that the concerns I've now expressed, won't turn on. We are all aware of the proper and effective implementation of the parliamentary process. It is our duty as elected representatives of the people. I am busy that the Stortinget should still be the most topical room for political debate. Therefore, I believe that keeping the timing of today would be the best thing to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e266	First, I would like to thank the President-in-Office for a good presentation of a matter that may not be perceived by the outside world as very important, but which will have a bearing on how we organize our daily lives here at Stortinget. First, I need to say that the Storting is a rather conservative institution. It's not like we're making big changes for our organization in time and in time. It happens very rarely, and I think that's a good thing. But sometimes we should stop a little bit and see if we're completely involved in the time, and sometimes evaluate whether we're organizing ourselves in the best possible way. The discussion about introducing more predictable voting times has been going on for many years, but it is only now that we have actually come to the point that concrete proposals are being put forward that will make it possible to introduce it, if a majority of the Stortinget so wishes. It is no secret that many in the Workers' Party have long wanted this change, for the simple reason that it makes our days more predictable, that we can plan better, and that there has been a great wish from many who have children. There are contradictions to the proposal, as the minority in the presidency has explained. There are a few objections that I would like to comment on. From the minority it is problematic that if we introduce fixed voting times, one cannot ignore the fact that representatives will choose other activities rather than be in the Storting and that this could lead to less participation in the debates in the Chamber. I'm not really worried about that. All those who are elected to the Storing are here to promote matters and positions for those who have chosen us, and for the games we represent. The debates of the last few days have shown that the Storting is relatively contentious, so I'm not very concerned. And that's not how we're going to be here. The difference is just that we'll be able to know when we're actually going to vote. Today we also have other activities and meetings, but it is easier to plan. Then it is also claimed that it will be difficult to hold committee meetings. Even if we introduce fixed voting times, we have to participate in the things we need to do to ensure the progress of the Storting. Everyone must take responsibility for the normal operation here. It's a commitment we have. In addition, it is added to the setting that we need to evaluate the scheme and maybe make adjustments if it does not work after the intention. For example, it might be appropriate to choose other times for voting, if appropriate, even if we now add up to Tuesday at noon. 15 and Thursday at 5 p.m. 14th @item: inlistbox However, it is not bound by the amendments proposed in the Rules of Procedure. When I got into Stortinget, it was like that we had a three-hour lunch break every day, from 6 p.m. 15 to 15 o'clock. 18th@item: inlistbox When it was about reducing this break by an hour, there was a little excitement, but it went fine. And when we took the break completely, it also went fine. I'm not kidding -- there was a lot of resistance among others to doing this. My point is, we don't have to be so conservative that we don't dare to challenge ourselves a little bit and dare to make any changes. I think the proposal that is on the table here today will do the Storting well, and I look forward to putting this into life, if there is a majority for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e283	Today, the majority in Stortinget decides that we should move from October to a new voting system. We are debating the matter today, and we are deciding it today. It's simple, easy and transparent. In many cases, this will not be the case when the new fixed-voting-point system is in place. The fourth vice-president, Nils T. Bjørke, has explained the minority's view on the matter. It is consistent with what the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats thinks. Some claim that some politicians first do everything they can to be elected to a place in the national parliament, and then would be anywhere other than in this house. It is probably a bit exaggerated and simplified, but it is a fact that many who follow our activity do not understand that the hall is nearly empty when matters are debated. And now, in many cases, the voters and those who are interested in the negotiations of the Storting will not be able to know the results of the vote until there may have been a whole week. This may weaken the interest that we would like the Storting's debates to be surrounded by, and make editorial mention of matters that have been debated but where decisions in plenary are waiting. Let me give you an example: a case is finally debated a late Tuesday afternoon in Stortinget, after voting has taken place. The matter shall then be put to the vote on the following Thursday. However, if there is a moving holiday, the matter will not be settled until the Tuesday after – a whole week after the debate. This may lead to pressure on – and attempts to influence – lots and representatives that may be heavy on the scale of a vote. More predictability and consideration of family and other activities is one of the arguments for converting to fixed votering times. There are understandable arguments, but through the exchange system, most of the representatives who need to do so are exempted from both the start of meetings and voting if they have assignments and obligations that require it. Since today's voting system at the end of the meeting is to be used in the Christmas and Summer interviews, and the fact is that about half of Storting's voting takes place in a year's time. 16, the Group of the Progressive Alliance considers that conversion to fixed voting times is unnecessary. Stortingsmann Celius in Nils Kjær’s play “The Happy Choice” from 1913 wrote the following to his loved one: "But think of the big one itself, think of the long, bright months when we sit on the big one. Lavinia, Lavinia – it’s good to sit.” Yes, it is good to sit on the Stortinget. We are chosen here for many reasons and too many things, but especially for one reason: to make decisions. Then we should also be present and do just that when the debates are over, not up to a week afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e307	It is very gratifying that we can finally put in place fixed voting times in Stortinget. This is something SV has done for a long time. It will make our work form simpler for all representatives, and it will not least be more adapted to a modern family life. Now I'm going to put something on top of it – but I think it's quite true – because I'm going to say that the old scheme might have been good for good adult men with wives at home who cared for any children. But neither Norwegian families nor Stortinget are like that anymore – fortunately. That is why this change is very important, because it adapts our way of working to how families work today and helps to ensure equal conditions and predictability for representatives of families and young children. It's also important beyond our work form, because it's about representativeness, that this house should be equally accessible to all kinds of families and people. So there's been a lot of speculation about what's going to happen. We hear about fear of fewer in the hall, less media attention and more pressure on representatives to change voting – as if not the time from one case to voting, already enough time to do so, for lobbyism. We'll see about that. That's why I'm very pleased with how the presidency adds up to dealing with this case, that you take an assessment and an evaluation after seeing how this works in a session. I think we will see – as in Folketinget in Denmark and in Riksdag in Sweden – that this will work well. But then there are several – to say – changes in the Rules of Procedure in addition to the fixed voting time. A number of other changes are proposed to give the President some greater power as head of the meeting. It is very sensible and uncontroversial in the changes that are necessary to achieve fixed voting times, but I would nevertheless draw attention to the fourth paragraph of Section 51, where the Presidency proposes to give the President the power to also adopt – decide – that the debate should end before all the speakers have spoken. Today, only the assembly can do this. There is both a fundamental and an actual form of transfer of power from the representatives to the president, which goes slightly beyond the other changes, and which SV will not support today. Finalising a case before all have been brought up is a significant form of control, which only the assembly should be able to decide. Especially wrong it is now quite common that one or more parties are not represented in the presidency. Therefore, SV will vote against the amendment to the fourth paragraph of Section 51. But otherwise this is a joyous day to make Stortinget more adapted to a modern family life, and I have great faith that the Stortinget is going to make good experience in the first session where we are now going to try this out.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e318	I fear that the changes proposed will make Storting a less important arena. Representatives of children are highlighted here. If these kids are in Ulsteinvik, Lom or Tana, it's a touching concern. I don't think this makes such a big difference. This proposal is primarily a good one for those who can take a trip home and eat dinner. It's a development where big business representatives become more officeists in Oslo than populaces who are in Oslo to do a thing. I also react a little to the comparison with going to voting after each case with going to voting after each meeting. When we went from voting after each matter to voting after each meeting, there was a rather big problem that resolved the representatives all day. Discussing a matter so as to take a decision, is almost made as something immature, and that time has to go on. In business, one discusses matters, and then makes a decision. I also believe that in family life it is such that one discusses matters, and then makes a decision. It is not impossible to make a decision after discussing a matter. I also found that the comparison with the first curtailment and then the removal of the so-called dinner break is not relevant in this context. The representative Bjørke brought up the matter of fur animals. Now it happens to end up in a cold caller – it might as well have come in April. And it's clear, when people come from all over the country to follow a debate about their own future, they have to experience that the discussion is going, and then the care of the staging representatives themselves and their ability to either go to kindergarten or have dinner with the family – if they live in Oslo – will make them wait. That matter was finally debated late on Thursday to join the Thursday sitting, so they will have to go and wait until Tuesday on the decision. That's what I think is unsustainable. We had a debate yesterday about tolls. I'm not going to draw it too far, but it's an advantage that it's kind of the same people who took part in the debate, who are present and actually voices. It would have been, I think, unfortunate that there are other people who decide matters than those who have been present and debated them. So a little bit about this concern for ourselves. We have 60-70 days where we have voting, according to the setting, and there are 365 days a year. On these voting days, it's 60 pst. by the representatives present. We will decide later today that we will have about 1 million. kr in wages and salaries. I think it would be hard to tell people out there why we can't decide the case after we've debated them. This will, and it will also be added, make it possible for you to have less space on the Storing. One should focus more on the fact that there is going to be a presence on the Storing when we do our absolute obligations. I'm a little worried about the committee work -- not if the committee can decide when one has a meeting, but I expect the representatives to meet. However, much of the policy developments in the committees have led to representatives being present at the Storting. But this is a change to make it easier for one to be smaller on the Size. I fear that today's opportunity to know that almost all the representatives are present when there is a meeting in the hall, and to be able to gather to discuss issues across the parties, will be reduced. When you look at the practical thing about this, there's a lot of exceptions. So a must have a fixed voting time, but one must make an exception in the query. It's, I suppose, from the end of November and maybe from the end of May. And then one should make an exception in connection with voting before non-meeting weeks, and one may also imagine other occasions where there are possibilities to make exceptions. Then there is one thing that with quite a few meetings one should have fixed votes on. And one will get a system that makes it difficult for those who are trying to follow in on Storting's work, to have an overview of when matters are actually settled. This is not a resistance to being opposed to changes in the organisation of Christmas ounces, or to being opposed to the organisation of the afternoon break. This is about the basic – shall we vote and decide a matter after she has been debated, with the same people who participated in the debate? That's what I mean this thing is about. I don't quite see that the need and the advantage you get with this change defends to do an intervention in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e341	I am very happy and would like to thank the majority of the presidency for the changes you are making now. It's a little strange to listen to the representative Pollestad. First, he is concerned about the increase in wages – he can vote against it later today, it is quite possible to do so, if you think it is too much. The second is that he first describes that there are very big changes here, and then he describes a code where there are so many exceptions that there are almost no changes. One of those versions must necessarily be wrong. I think there's something in between, but I think we're getting a much more sensible system now. I have been here for a long time and have experienced all three voting methods that have been mentioned here today. And I've always thought that we should facilitate that we don't sit in this house, but we can be out talking to the voters and people in businesses -- be much more out there when it's not our responsibility to be treated here in the hall. It's been hard to figure out. I guess I'm one of the ones who's been the most in this house. I hear that there are some people who are a little concerned that there should be no interest in the debates. My soul is most fucked up because you think I'm going to walk on this pulpit too much. So that's obviously also a problem for someone. For this to remove the interest from the debates in Stortinget: I have to say that I have registered a rather decreasing interest in many of the debates for quite many years, except for limited debates on small, slightly hot topics. We discussed the local economy earlier this week. It is a theme that concerns every human being in the whole country and every business, for that matter. There was no interest in either the gallery or the press department – or anything else in particular. This has been the case for many years. So there are probably other drivers than when we vote to make this hall an interesting debate forum or not. After all, it is a reality that most of the issues are settled once the committee is set up. That's it. Then we have an important job to do to make the debates in the hall interesting. I'm still going to use this arena, because I think it's important, and I think it's an important part of my job. But I'm glad I might be able to spend a little more time out of this house at meetings, where I don't have to sit and watch the clock all the time to see if I have to run back again to vote. There is no good form of work at all. There are also some nights when I've been sitting and half-sleeping in the office, so to go into the hall and vote, which I know has not exactly been productive work. Then it might even have been okay if you could go home and sleep – and meet up more rested the next day. Then that's the consideration of families with children. Yes, there is a difference, but there is no reason not to facilitate the situation of the families with children who can get help with it, even though not everyone can benefit from it in the same way. I have had grown-up children all the 22 years I have been here on Stortinget, so I have had quite a number of rear guards for those of my colleagues who have had small children and have had to go home. It's as it must be. But with this system there can also be a little bit more tidy in terms of replacement. So to the last argument that has been used here: it should be the same who has discussed the matter, who will also vote. No, the replacement is such that many of those who have been responsible for a matter are not included in the vote at all because they have been paid in that case. To put it that way: there are many arguments being drawn up here not to try a new scheme – a scheme that I am absolutely sure will work fine. I trust my co-representatives. We have an obligation to attend both the major meetings and the committee meetings. The obligation to attend committee meetings is as strong as it is to attend major meetings. In some cases, it might need to be tightened up. It is a different matter and has nothing to do with this regulation that we now decide to do, but there have been periods when there has been a need to tighten up, so that you can see that it is an obligation. These meetings are usually held in the middle of the day – not far into late evening hours, when some of these votes, which we hope we can take at another time, are taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e358	I think that of the problems we have as an institution, maybe the presidency has chosen to start at the wrong end. I see no great need to change today's legislation, and I believe that it has also been damaged to give a complete exaggeration of the disadvantages of today's situation. It is said that it is a modern family and work life that prevents people from meeting the Storting according to the rules we have. Yes, in that case it is a different work life than what I know outside this house. It's about 100 meeting days that we're bound to be here, if you want to comply with the rules – before we use the exchange scheme. If we look at it in a practical way, 70 of these days are feeding days, where you have to be physically present. If you also add that the presidency – and here I fully agree with them – has set up the weekly programme so that, not least for commuting representatives, we do not have Monday meetings and not Friday meetings during periods when the work is a little quieter. And then there are usually no motions for reality on Wednesdays. So we're very close to this nirvana of a state that some people now realize that the Storting is going to go over to. Of course, it can also be used as an argument for why you should engage with this proposal. But what I'm afraid of is the signals – whether we finally have a national assembly, in the sense of an organisation where people meet, even beyond what they are obliged to. I'm afraid we're getting a system where you go from a presumption, a presumption, that people are in this house, to a presumption of the opposite. I think it is completely underestimated the value of being taken across party boundaries, and also across committee boundaries in one's own party, knowing that one can easily approach one another outside the plenary sessions. This is to be evaluated, but I don't think you're able to capture the changes in this position in an evaluation, because then everyone is going to say how practical it is to have fixed times, as if we were a mechanical company where it's about to make the shifts stick together. That's not the case. I'm also not so impressed by the attendance in the committees, and the question is, what can we do? And there I agree with the representative Karin Andersen that we need to have a different culture of attendance here. But I think we don't support it by taking the plenary tasks so easily. It is a great trust to be elected to the Stortinget. When you refer to tasks outside the house, I think it is just respected that you let the work in the national parliament go ahead. And it's not just the meetings, it's also the preparations. I believe that there has been some imbalance in this by going out and preaching the good news compared to the work being done by the representatives, with all due respect, in the substance of the matter – knowing the issues, seeing the contexts, discussing them properly and taking seriously that this is the country's legislative and awarding assembly. If the Storting is to maintain its position and preferably regain its central position as the democratic hub of society, it requires more presence and less stopwatching here in the house.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e375	Thank you very much, President. And I can really just keep saying thank you -- I want to say thank you to the parties that are behind the majority voting. I am a voice for those representatives who want to be very useful and enjoy this change. I'm probably in a slightly different way of life than the representative Tetzschner with my four children aged four to ten. I live in Akershus, I don't have a big apartment, I travel back and forth every day. I'm not afraid that there will be less work on this change, and I think it's strange that you make it like the voting in Stortinget is the only evening work we do. We work in the evening all the time – in the party, in meetings with associations; it's not about this being fifty days, it's almost all weekend weekends and evenings where we're on duty in the service of democracy. I must say that I think is absolutely amazing – I am glad that I have that opportunity. But I want to tell you that there's a strain all the time to say "maybe": – Are you coming home tonight? Maybe. - Can you pick up at the kindergarten today? Maybe. - Can you join the show? Maybe. It's a burden, and if we want a breadth of democracy, if we want people to be able to participate regardless of the life situation, this is really an improvement of the system. It was shown that you can only ask for replacement if this crashes. But I actually want to be here and vote – I actually want to be able to use my voice in as many cases as possible. By having fixed voting times, it means that I can be present at several voting sessions, and you don't want to apply for replacement, because you can actually plan for, and participate in, the work that's going on here. I'm very busy meeting at committee meetings, and I want it as few times as possible to say that I didn't vote. So this I think can also contribute to even more actually participating that way. So I just finish where I started: thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e390	I was not familiar with this debate at all before I saw the case's papers this morning, but I cannot dare to inform the Storting a little about the revolution that has been in my lifetime in order to facilitate the relations of the representatives. It's a huge change from my first time in this room. Let me mention that, during the budgetary procedure, the vote was generally taken from eleven o’clock in the evening to three o’clock in the night — four to five hours of voting, often — chapter by chapter, post for post, with many amendments from different parties. With regard to the assistance received by the depositors, the rule was that for every 10 representatives a party had, one group secretary and one office secretary were given. The representatives usually wrote their own comments. So I guess today it's one to one. There are as many advisers employed in the wholesaler groups as there are representatives. In the period 1974–77, which I'm talking about, there was a very hectic activity in Stortinget, and it was late hours. There was a lot of work. Gradually it's getting a lot better. That's why I'm very happy that my big group has found a reasonable position, because it's possible to go too far. One thing is very hard-working representatives, like the previous speaker, who really won't get any change in the situation, just a little bit more predictability. But it's also probably the way people see the Biggest, the most important thing in our democracy. The suspicion of people may be that many big-time representatives come to the Stortinget on Tuesday to vote, perhaps in a debate on Wednesday and perhaps vote on Thursday, and then return home or are absent. This means three-day working week – from the middle of the day Tuesday to the middle of the day on Thursday. I know all those people who say they've met with the party and meet with companies and organizations, but it's probably not all the representatives who have an enormous activity when they're not in the building. Then a lot of people could say that being on the Storting is very good. That's a good paycheck, and it's a three-day work week. If you start at the same time looking at the presence of the committee meetings, which are now publicly available, and it's not so big, yes, it's going to be a negative view of the Stortinget. Although it is not right, it is damaging to our democracy if respect for the national assembly and the representatives who are sinking. What the majority wants, I think, will help you get a slightly more negative view and less respect. In our time, with a little bit of party political disintegration, as we see in the day, where new parties appear, a lot of protests, dissatisfaction – that’s not good either. In a democracy you have to listen to the people, not look down on the people, persecute the people and tell the people what to do. I remember that there was a leading representative in the Workers' Party a few years ago, when the Progress Party was about 30 p.m. in the polls, which called for us to replace the people – there was something wrong with this people, who could behave in such a way that such a terrible party got so much excitement. I am very pleased that the Group of the Party of European Socialists is opposed to these changes. It is more than enough that you now have a meeting almost exclusively on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday – that is, every Monday and Friday. There are rarely committee meetings on Mondays and Fridays, and there are rarely committee events or official major events on Mondays and Fridays. In other words, you have the days at your disposal. If you don't have a lot of work, you can say that you have a three-day work week. It is not good for the reputation and – I think – the uproar and respect that the Stortinget should have. I am happy today that I can vote with my group in a sensible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e408	Thank you for the debate. It looks like it's going to go to the end. I believe that the presidency, both in the vote and in the debate today, has shown that we have discussed them carefully – one might call it – conflicting matters. We have arrived at a balance sheet that both ensures that the size of the polling periods votes daily and in the budgetary proceedings at the end of each budget debate. That's why I have to comment on something similar to what the representative Karin Andersen said, that the representative Pollestad was at first very worried, so to speak, that there was really no change at all. Then we might have found the right balance in this, I think, during this trial period -- to put it that way -- that's in one year. It has been made a thorough assessment. I, as the President-in-Office of the Council, and also we as Presidentship, are concerned to make a careful evaluation of this. There will be no left-handed work, precisely because we are busy with what several have talked about here in the Chamber – we are, of course, concerned with the fact that the big business is what is first and foremost important for a large-scale representative: participation in the Chamber in the debates, participation in committee meetings, and not least what the representative Tetzschner was about, the presence at the Stortningen for the important clarifications that take place every single day, between meetings, between parties and within the parties. This is the presidency concerned, and I'm very concerned about this. It has also been discussed whether to vote at the start of the meeting. There are parliaments that do. Then I'd be more concerned that you'd see lower attendance at committee meetings, which we're noticing is that it's in between today, which is a challenge even today. In some parliaments, too, Members of Parliament must not be present at the start of meetings. I think it's a very good tradition in Norway that we don't start the big meetings until half of us are in the hall. It's an important signal. It is a little difficult to recognize in the posts of the representative Hagen in the three-day working week. There may be differences between parties and between representatives, but I don't have the impression – and in my role as the prime minister, I talk to a lot of representatives from a lot of parties – that the representatives have a three-day working week. I have more the impression that with the new media world we are in, with the availability we now have, which we had not before – voters and residents contact us on everything from Messenger to Instagram, SMS and telephone – we are really available 24/7. Of course, we don't work 24/7, but we're available, and I'd like to say that we're available in a different way than a few years ago, as you'd like to have the time to at least be able to blame for the mail to wait to respond to an enquiry. Now it is really expected that you will answer there and there. To the representative Morten Wold: I am very proud to sit on the Stortinget. But there's been a lot of progress since 1913, also by the fact that there's an equal size, where the proportion of women is larger than ever. But we're also going to make it possible for it to be family friendly, and it's not just about women, it's just as about men and fathers. I mentioned this in my post with families with children, and it was taken over by the representative Geir Pollestad. I am concerned that we should arrange for small children's parents living in Finnmark, who live in Hordaland, who live in Rogaland, and who have a long way to travel, to be allowed to be big children's representatives, even if they have small children. It's incredibly important. So it doesn't do anything, as the representative Moflag said, that those who can commute home get the opportunity to participate in family life in a more predictable way with the new arrangement. I would also like to remind you that it is possible for adult representatives with young children to have two return trips this week, with the new system, that one can, at times, if there is a need to go home for a difficult parental conversation at school, for example, one Tuesday night, most people who commute, perhaps a row to join the vote and still have a conversation at home in the evening or be present at other things for their children. But that's not the most important argument, I just have to say, for these changes. I think there's a need for this kind of predictability, and I think we should give ourselves the opportunity to try this one session now. So it's going to be carefully evaluated, and we'll be able to get a new discussion then.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e427	I support the minority in the presidency and am therefore not one of those who support the amendments proposed. This is the national parliament of the country. It's a house that's going to be a meeting place between the parts of the country and different people from all over Norway. It is Norway's top democratic body and a hall that has all the power. There is a place with a weight that means that I do not think we should take lightly changes in our activities, even changes in the Rules of Procedure such as those we are dealing with now. I think it is entirely right to be accused of being conservative in such a case because of the position I have taken. I would first like to comment on Mr Andersen's and the President-in-Office's hissing with the concern of the representative Pollestad. It was said by the President-in-Office that he was very concerned, so to speak, that there were no changes here at all. To that I would say that here you're actually making quite a change in principle. What Pollestad questioned was the extent to which the changes in practice would be time-consuming because of exceptions for interview periods, etc. So it's unclear how much difference from today's practice you want to achieve, but the fundamental changes are still big, precisely because you want to separate debate and voting hereafter. There's been a lot of talk about it, and I'm not going to go into it so carefully. In addition, there is a transfer of power to the President in the form of a limitation of speaking time and the ability to end the debate before all speakers have spoken, as the representative of the SV was in the place. These are fundamental changes in Storting's business, which I believe should not be taken lightly. The fur animal case has been cited as an example of why it may be bad to separate debate and voting. I also want to say a little bit about it. It was a very difficult matter for many in Stortinget. There were many people in Stortinget who had the word in that case. There were a lot of spectators in the gallery, as much of the day was almost full. The day on which the case was pending, it was case no. 2nd@item: inlistbox We started the debate on that matter at around 1 p.m. 11, if I don't remember completely wrong. There were people in the gallery throughout the debate, until 7 p.m. 16-17. There were also people here, because of that debate, when we were to vote at noon. 00.05 the same night. There were travellers who had been sitting and waiting in the Storting all day, while the Storing was dealing with all the other matters, because they were so concerned about the outcome of that matter, which would have such a great impact on their lives. In the time between the release of the committee position and the reading in Stortinget, what I would call a drama in the scenes was that for a long time it was unclear whether the committee position would actually achieve a majority. Had you had a week or only a few days between the debate and the voting, it had created great uncertainty. It had created a pressure to change the outcome of the case. It had been very difficult for those affected by the case to sit and wait for the Storting to finally settle the matter. We who sit here may think that the matter is settled when the debate is over, but for people out there, the voting is the case. We have to remember that. I think it's important to take into account that you should be able to have a family life, that you take into account those who have children, and those who have someone waiting at home. But I feel that the Storting, considering what kind of institution it's about, is already quite well arranged to do other things and to be able to take care of a family life. As the representative Hagen was in the room, we have free Mondays and Fridays. I don't share the idea that there are many people taking off those days, but those days make you have a lot of time to be anywhere else than here, whether you spend your days having free, meeting voters or traveling around. I remember that this is a gathering of people from all over the country and from all parts of the country, and then it's the two days that it's most relevant for most people to use to be in their state or in their part of the country. It's hard to get it done Tuesday afternoon. 15 if you are from Hedmark, Finnmark, Trøndelag or elsewhere. We also have the opportunity to meet inside the house here. I have attended several meetings where we have had to take a break at the meeting because voting is called and we have to vote. It is not usually a violent and insurmountable problem. There are a lot of people who are interested in coming here to meet us. If you are at a meeting outside the house in Oslo somewhere, it is also not so difficult to follow the agenda and be able to be back on the Stortinget within the voting, if it should be a collision, which really does not occur too often. And not least we have a substitution scheme, which gives 40 pst. by representatives the possibility of being away, which is also a form of organisation for being elsewhere. We do not know that the assembly is made up of people from all over Norway. The changes that lie here, as I see it, will be of primary benefit to those who live in Oslo or Akershus, and not so much for the rest. Then I don't think it's worth it when it's about big fundamental changes, especially that of separating debate and voting, which I think is very difficult, which can make the Storting lose its relevance, and which can make it difficult for people to accept that we should make such a big change to take into account ourselves. It affects people out there, who don't get clarity about what the Storting has decided. There will be a lot of uncertainty about the decisions in our cases, which I think is unfortunate.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e446	I also came to Stortinget for the first time in 1997, while Karin Andersen, by the way. One of the first things we who were young at that time grabbed hold of and asked questions about was the long afternoon break in Stortinget's meetings. The meeting began at 5 p.m. 10, as today. The meeting was then cancelled at 0 p.m. 15, and it was three hours' break until 3:00 p.m. 18 and then the evening meeting was set, and Stortinget continued until matters were dealt with. Why would we have a three-hour break? Well, the argument that was actually used was that the afternoon break was introduced in its time because there were so many big business representatives who had been in concentration camp during World War II and had to have regular breaks to rest to work in their big business. Then we asked the question again -- there might not be so many of them left in 1997, 50 years after the war, but it was one of the arguments that was used to keep the afternoon break. It was very difficult to make changes. Then the break was cut down to two hours – big debate. Could we just have a two-hour afternoon break, from 2:00 a.m. 16 to 16 o'clock. Eighteen? - Big debate. Yeah, we should try it. It went quite well. Then there was another debate: do we need the break at all? And then a trial plan was put in place, that we should try not to have an afternoon break – a big debate. It went very well. And finally, the afternoon break was completely removed – then we start at noon. 10 and keep going until we're done. It's going pretty well, and I haven't noticed anyone who will return to the time of afternoon break. Why do I bring this up? Well, because it is very difficult to make changes in the mode of work of the Storting, it has been shown. Some things are very difficult to do, but once you've done it, it turns out it works. Fortunately, a lot has changed, and it has gone well. What this is about is predictability in the work of big business representatives and in the Stortinget as such. I think the majority of the presidency has balanced this very well. A must balance the workings of the Stortinge as an institution, a must balance the workings of the representatives of the big business, and a must balance how we, as representatives of the big business, as elected representatives and representatives of the population, can function in our role as big business. Our big business and our position as representatives of the population are about much more than just what we do while we're inside this room. I think the majority of the presidency has balanced this in a very good way, and believe it is absolutely time for us to try this. And then I hear what the President-in-Office says, that now we're trying to do this, and then we're going to evaluate and come back to what it's going to be like. It has been discussed in the past whether you should have a system in which one vote the morning after, i.e. that the last day's things are taken up for voting at the beginning of the meeting the next day. There is a system that I know has been looked at, but the sum total I think what is now proposed seems to be a good solution, which we should try. Then I have to say to Carl I. Hagen: I record that he first intervenes in the cases on the same day as the cases are to be dealt with. The rest of us have spent quite a while working on these questions for quite a long time. Yesterday we had an extensive debate on tolls. Carl I. Hagen managed to sneak away from the voting last night and would not be present at that voting. What kind of dignity and what kind of respect for the Storting is it? What kind of respect for the voters is it that Carl I. Hagen managed to sneak away from the voting yesterday in order not to join in and vote on something that apparently was unpleasant to him? I can mention that debate again as an example – we had it last night, it was around noon. 23 we voted last night. With what has now been proposed by the presidency, that vote should have been at 1 p.m. 14 today instead. Is there really any dramatic difference if we have the voting time? 23 a Wednesday night or have it at noon. 14 and Thursday? I think absolutely we should try this out. It's time we also tried to change at the voting times in Stortinget. It has to do with the working conditions of the big business representatives and the predictability of the big business representatives, so that we can plan our work week better than we do, and that we can act as even better trustees for the population. So I don't know myself again in Carl I. Hagen's description of three days' work week. I know most of the big business representatives as hardworking representatives, and who, to the best of their ability, are able to balance the work in the United Kingdom in their electoral districts with full meeting books every week. And my last point: they get it in Sweden and Denmark. I have never heard that there is a lack of dignity in the parliamentary work in either Sweden or Denmark, and I have not heard that people have lost respect for the elected people neither in Sweden nor in Denmark by having voting time in a different way from ours. They do it in Sweden and Denmark. I'm sure we'll get it done in Stortinget too.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e471	It must be said that Carl I. Hagen yesterday had ordinary replacement due to other political purposes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e476	It's okay that we have a slightly different view of what's going on here. But when the most important argument for this is that there was resistance to other changes before, I thought we had little argument. We're going to have to deal with the challenges we're facing right now. I thought we should take on seriously the countermeasures that we have, and then we can argue for or against. But saying that it was difficult to get away from the break in the middle of the day shows that it is a good solution to change this now – then I am no longer following. One actually has to be able to argue from what is. I have great respect for the fact that many have a busy everyday life and have challenges with it. But I actually don't think this is the solution to change this. I think the disadvantages in relation to the Storting as a current arena, the Storting as an important actor in the political image, make it all the better to stand in the present order. So I accept that someone else has a different view of it, but we want to have respect for the opinions we have. To claim that if you don't, you're backward – one has been against changes before, and therefore this is a mistake – is in my opinion to debate wrong premises.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e483	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e499	The President will suggest that the speaking time is limited to 3 minutes for each batch group. In addition, the President will suggest that there is no replication, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e508	The Presidency promotes proposals for new rules in Stortinget's Rules of Procedure on the processing of classified information in Stortinget. In March 2018, the Storting adopted a new Security Act. While the Stortinget was exempted from the former Security Act, it follows from the new Security Act that it will apply to Stortinget as far as the Storting itself determines it. Therefore, at the same time as the adoption of the new Security Act, the Stortinget asked the Presidency to present a case on the extent to which the Security Act applies to the Stortinget. In line with the Presidency's proposal, the Stortinget passed provisions on the application of the Security Act for the administration of Stortinget just before Christmas in 2018. At the same time, the Presidency announced that during the spring session we would come back with a separate review of the rules of procedure with a view to the possible implementation of the rules of the Security Act with effect for the parliamentary bodies. The Rules of Procedure of the Grand Duchy already have some rules on the processing of classified information, but it could be argued that they cover only limited aspects of the information processing carried out in the Grand Duchy. The Presidency has therefore seen the need for a more comprehensive regulation of how classified information is handled in the parliamentary bodies. It follows from the new Safety Act that the safety rating and authorisation procedures of the Act do not apply to the large-scale representatives, since, through the election to office, the representatives are already deemed to have been cleared and authorised to receive classified information. This fundamental principle is now also proposed in the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament. The Presidency believes that clear rules on the processing of classified information are central to the access of the Storting to information. If classified information becomes known to unauthorised persons, the consequences for national security may be serious. It is therefore essential for the government to have confidence that the information is handled in a secure manner even after it has been communicated to the Stortinget. In addition, in recent years we have seen an increase in the number of classified cases dealt with by the Stortinget, not least because the Riksrevision has carried out several administrative studies on Norway’s security and preparedness. This also suggests that there is a need for more complementary rules on the processing of classified information. The Presidency proposes in the nomination that the rules of procedure of the Storting should be followed by the representatives and committees. This implies somewhat more formal obligations than today. At the same time, representatives already have the obligation of professional secrecy about such information, and earlier efforts have also been made to comply with these legislation. In practice, therefore, the new rules do not necessarily involve major changes. It is also proposed that the Presidency be empowered to establish supplementary guidelines on the rules. There are also proposed rules on access to classified information for the employees of the batch groups as well as new rules on classification and labelling of information issued in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e529	I agree with the presentation of Grand President Wilhelmsen Trøen and also with the clarifications regarding the duties you impose on the representatives in their dealings with classified documents. I take the word just to make two clarifications to the possible later reading understanding of Section 2, which also has to be read at my discretion in connection with Section 1 in relation to this with the upgrading of documents after a certain period of time. That is the procedure for this in Section 2. The clarification I want to make is that regardless of the wording of our regulations, the purpose of the Security Act is the principle that there is an information issuer, which is required to decide on the graduation issue, which is also given the sole competence for any degradation of the information it has issued. In the case of documents sent to the Stortinget from the relevant departments — the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Defence or the State Department — this principle applies. At the same time, Stortinget will need to issue its own documents, so these are those that can be degraded according to the procedure described in Section 2. It must then be done in such a way that both the level of detail and the re-telling of information issued by others must respect the principle I mentioned in the introduction. So it has to be so that it will still be the information the original information issuer has to take into account for the downgrading. Now it is added that in the case of very old documents you have to get an opinion. I am aiming at the downgrading cases relating to documents that have been in Stortinget for 30 years, etc., where you are, therefore, making an effort to contact the issuing departments to get their advice on the downgrading issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e540	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e556	The President will suggest that the speaking time is limited to 3 minutes for each batch group. In addition, the President will suggest that there is no replication, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e565	The Presidency today puts forward a position on the regulation of the remuneration of the grossing-up representatives and the members of the government. The Presidency promotes a unanimous proposal that the Stortinget set out the remuneration proposed by the Enlarged Bureau in its position. As in previous years, the Commission has collected information from several teams to monitor wage developments in Norwegian working life, from both the private and public sectors. Furthermore, the Commission has taken note of the agreement on the level of settlement of the year. As in previous years, the expected annual wage growth has been highlighted in the year’s settlement. The Commission has also decided this year to make a regulation equivalent to the forward-looking settlement of the year, corresponding to 3.2 pst. The Presidency points out that the Wage and Occupational Pensions Commission has given its opinion on the extension of the ordinary remuneration arrangements in line with the Presidency’s request and in accordance with the mandate given by the Stortinget. Furthermore, the presidency shows that the termination of the Wage and Occupational Pensions Commission represents an annual wage increase in 2019 for the Wage and Social Security representatives and the government’s members of 3.2 pst. The Presidency will note that before the current pay commission scheme, the regulation of remuneration for grossing-up representatives and government members was linked to the wage development of certain categories of employment or the pay step of managers in the country. Following the Commission’s establishment, the Stortinget has established the regulation each year in line with the expected annual wage growth based on the framework for the front-stage subjects. This has led to the development of the remuneration of grossing-up representatives and government members in line with the general wage trend of full-time employees. On this basis, the recommendation of the Presidency is recommended.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e578	Differences between people are increasing. Since 2013, the poorest 20 percent have lessened their lives, while ordinary people’s income has remained silent. More than 130 occupations had a real wage drop last year, including: bus drivers, pre-school teachers, kindergarten assistants, health professionals, cleaners and hotel receptionists. The list is long. Ordinary people get less living for, while at the top they get more. Two scores were set last year: a record in billionaires and a record in the number of children in poor families. People who go on redundancy pay get cut off and are forced on social welfare, with children having their income cut off, unemployed get their holiday money cut off. At the same time that the differences are increasing, which is married to society, and at the same time that those who have received the least are getting more unsocial cuts, sitting on the right side, the Workers' Party and the Center Party here on the Stortinget and granting themselves higher wages. It's no wonder people have been bored. It's not nice that people lose faith in politicians. It's not nice that people get pissed off. The right side stands and trades about moderation and tight times for ordinary people while we are soon about to get a million wages. There are not ordinary people, social-securityed and retired people who are going to have to mother. Now it's the politicians' turn. Now it's time to show that we have stomachs, that we take on that the main reason for the growing differences is that the richest ones are leaving. We have to go ahead and be involved in taking responsibility for turning that development around. That's why SV today, as we've done for a very long time each year, proposes to vote against the salary increase that the other parties will give themselves. We say it like this: politicians are not going to get a single penny more than the pensioners get in the back of the people. The pensioners get more than 35 kroner a month in purchasing power from this government, according to Nav's estimate. And then we're going to get the same addition and nothing more. This is about people's confidence in democracy. How will people trust the politicians if we grind our own cake and leave others with the crumbs? That gives politicians contempt – rightly so, I would say. There is reason to disdain the way politicians in Norway move further away from ordinary people, while increasing differences. It's going down on the community glue. We can't let that happen. Retirementists, destitute and ordinary people have tightened enough. Now it's our turn.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e591	Would the representative like to make the proposals from SV?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e596	I'm addressing SV's suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e601	The representative Freddy André Supreme Court has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e606	Then we were here again – the day when the Storting decides to give itself juicy pay supplement. Red will vote against. We think the pay is too high when we see what most people in our country serve. So we're going to cut the gross pay, not raise it. We want to get it down to eight times the basic amount of the population benefit, i.e. a little less than 800,000 kroner. That should be more than enough. Then we want to tie the salary to the change in the basic amount. This will save money on the big budget, and it will bring our wages down to a level that more people out there seem to be a reasonable reward for the trust we have. To increase the salary to approx. 989 000 kroner is not in line with any such reasonableness, and at least not in a situation where real wages went down for over 130 occupations last year. The gap between the politician's salary and what most people earn will only be even greater if the pay in here is 1 million. kr, and it may happen next year if no grip is taken. We want to get rid of this payroll commission, which only has one function, that we can pretend to be someone other than ourselves who sets the payroll level of the big business. Because it's not like that. We are adopting our own salary today, a privilege that most workers can look reasonably far behind. So let's not pretend anything else, we don't ask anyone by hiding behind this payroll commission. It should be put down. If our proposals fall, we have a third proposal, to make sure that the gross pay does not go 1 million. kr, as it does next year if no grip is taken. It's a symbolically important limit. A plumber earns an average of 480,000 kroner a year, an assistant earns an average of 465000 kroner. We should not earn more than twice the salary for these professions. With our proposal, we are shown to the citizens which parties say here, but no longer, and which parties say yes to much more. In many debates, most parties are in need of speech. In the debate on raising own wages, there is amazing silence from the Workers' Party, the Advance Party, the Right, the Center Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party. I'll ask them otherwise in the Chamber to sign and defend their own salary increase. I see Carl I. Hagen's here. He should tell people most why he deserves even more pay. The same thing should be done by the Right, Labour Party, Left, Christian People's Party and the members of the Centre Party – and most of them justify the increase in pay to people. I'll take up Red's suggestion.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e625	Then the representative Björn Moxnes has taken up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e630	Not enough to understand that 3 pst. NOK 100000 is less than 3 pst. of 200000 kroner. If you want to calculate a wage increase in this way, the differences in next year's bill will be even greater, and even larger the year after that. This is a good recipe for how to accelerate from the rest of the population. I have to say that I'm surprised that people in this room are able to close their eyes for this and use particularly substitutive arguments to cancel their own salary. Should it be like this in ten years? Because in ten years' time, we're going to have a well over 1 million. GDP in wages and salaries is much higher than the current average of the population. Isn't the distance between us and others big enough already? It is quite unlikely to see in particular how the Labour Party assesses this matter, the party that talks with trusted people every day. There are trust leaders who know what it means to negotiate the heads and ears of pay negotiations, and they know very well why they do it. It's so that the distance shouldn't increase in the way I've described it. Arguments used in connection with the results of the year's wage negotiations between the parties are not valid. They just don't keep water. The result of the year, 3.2 pst., is the indicated frame. This framework means that this is what should be the result of the increase in wage costs for employers, including wage-smoking, low-wage allowances, pension expenditure, etc. The general supplement of the annual paycheck between the parties is 0.75 pst. It would have been a more reasonable and, in fact, understandable number to use, even though the most reasonable thing would have been to negotiate for crowns, which all experienced trustees know.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e644	I'm pretty new here at the house. Less than a month ago, I worked somewhere else. There I had problems that were pretty similar to those I have now, but one of the differences is that I now earn about four times as much as I did then. It means that I can afford to live a slightly different life than what my friends do. It notices on the small surfaces, that I can buy more beer than they do when we're out together, but we're also going to notice in the larger areas, like I'm going to save money from here that makes me have a better chance of buying a place to live. To be honest, I think it's kind of awkward to get as high a salary as what I'm doing now. I can't justify what we do in here is more important and should be rewarded better than the other, very important, jobs in this country. At least I can't afford to pay myself even more today. It's not exactly we who need it the most, yet money should be used to increase our pay rather than the pay of others. I hope that we all still remember the big news about differences from earlier this year. There it was clear that we need the differences between people shrinking and not growing. For the differences in income create distances between people. It makes people have different opportunities, different life situations and different perspectives, which creates a distinction between us. Giving pensioners 35 kroner more a month and us 31 500 kroner more a year is crazy bad style, and it's also unwise if we raise our eyes a little bit. There are only a few of us who are directly influenced by the payroll, but we're all going to live in this society, where some people are moving away. I remember being in a school debate once when a representative from the right said he didn't think it was a problem that someone was very rich. He thought it was a problem that someone was very poor. Of course, the two things are related. I wish we could prioritize right now and put in the effort to make fewer people poor rather than make more people rich.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e653	We are dealing with this increase in wages at a time when differences in power and wealth are increasing in Norway and the public unrest over increased disparities is also increasing. Many people with little difficulty, not least because there has been a policy in Norway in recent years that has given too many of those who have the least, told to tighten the life-belt. They're chroniclers who've been given increased prowess. It applies only to parents who have had poorer social welfare schemes. This applies to disabled dependants. This applies to the many redundancy benefits that have been reduced out of the scheme only in the last few months. A short time ago, there was a severe demonstration outside of here by pensioners who had traveled from all over the country to protest against the underregulation of pensions. There's been several zero settlements in a row for the pensioners. This year, the estimates show that they will be given approx. 35 kroner a month – very little compared to the salary that the majority of the Stortingen are granting to themselves. Then I think it's time to stop and think about, because what we're doing today is politics, there's signals, and it's about taking responsibility for a social development that's going in the wrong direction, where those who have a lot are moving away, and where many who have little are left behind. There's reason to remember that the blue majority of the Storting will no longer have social security settled for treatment before the summer, as a custom before, will not grant the pensioners the right to negotiate, and that we have a working life where 10 pst. of those with the worst wages and salaries, they have not had real wages and salaries growth in the last ten years. It's in this society that we need to find a reasonable payment for the politicians. In this society, it's our job to make sure that we take care of the social glue, that we fight for small differences. Then this is, when so many of those who have the least in the Norwegian community, in different ways experience getting it tougher, a time to hold back, a time to give those who have the most, to tell them to tighten up. For example, we should make a real deal with top management salaries in the state, and if we're going to get it, it's wise for the Storting to go ahead. The size can go ahead today by saying that as long as the pensions are underregulated at such a low level, we will link our own salary to it. Therefore, the fundraising representatives should not receive more than the pensioners receive.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e662	Yesterday, the Labour Party presented a long list of 83 proposals for increasing differences, and there is a lot of good on that list. Of course, it is not exhaustive, but it is so long that it says something about which things you choose not to mention as measures against increased differences. One very important thing is missing from the Workers' Party's list, and it is that they will not do anything to limit the growth of the crazy leaders' salaries in state companies, nor the growth of the politicians' salaries here on the Stortinget – and in the extension of that crazy wage increase to local elected representatives who use the Stortinget as a model for their own wage growth. In Equinor, the leader makes nearly 17 million. kr, in Telenor 15,5 mill. SEK 13,1 million in Yara. kr and in the View – as it is now called – over 6 million. kr. Here at Stortinget, we'll probably make $1 million in just one year. kr in annual salary. At the same time, we know that the low-paid people are falling behind. They get real pay cuts in their income because, among other things, has a weakened trade movement due to social dumping, which the government does nothing to stop, or – as we have been adopted in Stortinget – to ensure that the trade movement is strengthened, so that more people join a trade union. There is nothing happening on the part of the government with the decisions taken by the Stortinget on this matter. In such a situation, it is very special that the Storting, with close to all parties, is in favour of a further increase in the pay of politicians. It's understandable that it's tempting to raise their own salary, most people would like to do it if they get that opportunity. But as elected representatives, we have a responsibility to show that we want to combat increasing differences, also by going in for what should have been a minimum of necessary cut in own wages. 8G, which we're proposing, is almost $800,000, is not a hunger wage, you can easily survive in Norway without fear of the future. Most people make hundreds of thousands of dollars less and live well with it. So our proposal should be able to receive unison support. Show some stomach, and push cut in your own pay!
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e673	It was our husband Moxnes who made me take the word at a direct invitation. I would like to tell a story I heard when I first came to the Stortinge, and they had the same debates: It was a very long time ago, when the compensation of the depositors was $3,000, which was so appropriate. When Stortinget was going to debate the remuneration and discuss whether to make changes, there was a representative from the Bond Party who proposed to put it down from 3,000 to 2,000 dollars, and it was unanimously adopted. Then one of the Bond Party's representatives started to cry. He was desperate and said, "But I can't deal with only 2,000 dollars, it goes beyond a lot of things when it comes to the family economy -- I don't know how to do it." Another replied, of course: Why in the world did you propose it – why did you then propose to put it down? The answer was: – But it was not supposed to be adopted. You had to buy popularity. The representatives of the Moxnes and the Light Hill remind me of that. They want to buy their popularity out there, and that's okay, there's a lot of us that's done. But I expect them to take the consequences of it, send a letter to the presidency and dismiss the increase that the majority is now likely to adopt. When they are against it, it would be immoral for them to accept it and dispose of it. That's my call. Moreover, I have noticed that the payroll commission has actually followed the front lines. And I've rarely heard a discussion about wage negotiations that's not about percentages. Very much is about percentages, not crowns, also in the LO system, which these two gentlemen are trying to innovate. It's the same percentage that the front disciplines got, as they apply here. I think that is an important principle. It is quite right that the majority of people decide their wages themselves, but in this case, that assessment is left to an independent payroll commission, and I think that's a sensible system. So I don't have any problems voting for the same percentage or increase as the front lines of the tariffs have got.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e686	The bears of the Moxnes have had the word twice before and get the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e691	There should be a connection between life and learning. We have a party tax in Red, so I'm making about 300,000 kroner less than the rest on Stortinget, which is way below what we're proposing as a salary, i.e. 800,000 kroner. The salary increase granted today will be due to the lot, not signed personally. It is liberating to hear that Carl I. Hagen openly and honestly supports that he himself should receive an additional wage increase – greet the ex-president of the party for most people. Most people make less than half of what Carl Ivar Hagen does here on the Stortinget. They have a job that is perhaps at least as important as the one we have, but they can't adopt their own salary, as Carl I. Hagen and the rest of the Storting can do. A little bit of stomach would have been in its place. It's allowed to think about one more time and support Red's proposal to cut the politicians' wages.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e698	When it comes to becoming popular, I listen to the representative Hagen. I'd say he can be an authority in the field, no one can take it from him. When it comes to precisely political privileges, I'm probably listening a little less. It was despite all the representative Hagen who went to the Supreme Court to keep his gold pension himself, so I may not think he is the great figure in this particular matter. There's a connection between life and learning in SV. We have a party tax regime in our party that means that our representatives are left with significantly less than the sum that we vote for in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e707	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e723	The President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that there be no loopholes, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e732	The attitude of the Presidency concerns a proposal from the SV proposing to tighten up the quarantine system for political management in the ministries. The proposal concerns, inter alia: the composition of the quarantine subject, restrictions on the right to set up companies during the quarantine period and the infringement fee and the obligation to pay back in the event of a breach of the quarantine law. In addition, a change in the back-up scheme is proposed for policy-makers in the ministries. The proposal for a representative has been submitted to the Ministry of Local Government and Modernisation for its opinion. In its opinion, which is at the time of suspension, the Ministry states that they will assess the remuneration rules of the Quarantine Act following an initiative by the Quarantine Department itself, and that it would then also be natural to consider the rules on penalties for infringements of the quarantine provisions. The Presidency believes that since it became clear, there is no need to comment on the proposals in the proposal for a representative now – although many of us agree with several of them – but rather simply await the work on the revision of the law and take a final decision on the proposals then. The proposals contained in the draft representative are important to take into account the work of the ministry. It is therefore an overall presidency which, in its observations, asks the Ministry to take the proposal for a representative into account in the further work on the legislative review. I assume that the questions raised in the proposal will be raised again in Stortingen when the matter is prepared in the department. In this round, therefore, the presidency's recommendation is that the proposal should not be adopted since we await the matter. I refer to the remarks in the vote and recommend with the unanimous recommendation of the presidency.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e745	Nevertheless, the SV considers that it is appropriate to present the proposals today. I am pleased with the positive tone taken from the presidency, that it is felt that the government must actually look at these concrete proposals, because they are quite well worked out, and they are based on the actual situation that has been. What should be at the heart of this Greatness is that the rules that we adopt for politicians must be as close as possible to the rules that other people have to deal with if, for example, they are. no longer feels like having a job. And that's a piece of yours. One is this quarantine issue, where there are ex-politicians who have to sit and decide on arrangements that should be good for other politicians. We believe that such a system should be added to a State control body, for example. Navel. They have a long experience in controlling other benefits that people get. It looks like there has been some speculation in setting up consulting firms for government councils right after the termination of the post-paid scheme. It is then important to ensure that this is not only an opportunity to extend a quarantine scheme, he should then register as a jobseeker on Nav. It is okay to set up such a company, but you have to try to support yourself, as other people have to if they lose their jobs. You may also be entitled to a benefit in these cases if you do not get a job, but you must be registered and accept work, as other people do if they lose their job. It is also necessary to consider how this could be undesirable adaptations to tax legislation. There is also a need to look at stricter penalties for infringements of the provisions. Today, only the imposition – one must stop doing what one is not allowed to do – is no form of reaction that provides the basis for requiring the reimbursement of wrongfully paid wages or the risk of punishment. For other government benefits, e.g. by virtue of the Law on Social Security, such as redundancy payments and day-to-day benefits, there is a general criminal provision for failure to provide correct information. There is no reason for retired politicians to have other rules if they break with benefits they have if they get paid money because they have no pay. Nor is there any reason for such rules to apply to persons who also have higher benefits than any of those who receive their income insurance through Nav. I then addressed the SV's proposal, which is available on a loose sheet.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e758	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e763	The Quarantine Act was adopted by a unanimous decision and entered into force on 1 January 2016. The aim of the law is to strengthen trust in central government and the political system. The quarantine rules shall balance three considerations: the consideration of the individual's freedom to seek employment, the need for recruitment of undertakings and the need to reduce the possibility of a breach of professional secrecy or the use of sensitive information in a new position or position, or the suspicion thereof. The temporal separation represented by the quarantine will contribute to the recovery of both the individual and the businesses in a transitional phase. A quarantine imposed means you don't get income for up to six months. Therefore, compensation is given for the salary you had on retirement, plus holiday pay. If you are grounded, there is no compensation. If you have a different income during the quarantine period, you will receive the compensation accordingly. The Quarantine Act allows for the imposition of reactions such as imposition, periodic penalty payment, administrative withdrawal and infringement fee. Infringement charges may be imposed in the event of gross negligence or intentional infringement of the provisions. It is the Quarantine issue that decides on whether to impose the quarantine and, where appropriate, to ban the case, and that decides on any penalties. I have full confidence that the denominator determines the matters in accordance with the Quarantine Act. In the 2017 Annual Communication, KMD has asked Quarantine Subject to make a detailed assessment of the remuneration rules. In the 2018 Annual Communication, the EESC has also asked KMD to assess the rules on penalties. The 2019 budget proposal for the Ministry of Local Government and Modernisation states that the Ministry will follow the recommendations of the Quarantine topic to look into the remuneration rules, and it is therefore natural that such follow-up also includes an assessment of the sanction rules. I am pleased that the presidency has shown support for the ministry being given the opportunity to examine more closely the proposals promoted by the Quarantine Topic. The Ministry will also look at the proposal for a representative in its work and, of course, any legislative changes will be promoted to the Stortinget in the usual way.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e776	Special rules for politicians, whether they are gamblers' representatives or members of the government, are a practice. If politicians are to have legal confidence in the population and not meet contempt, we need to clear up the regulatory framework in several areas. The arrangements for both representatives and members of the government must be as close as possible to how ordinary people feel. This also applies to the quarantine and post-wage legislation. There have been several cases — both now and in the past — where former government governments or others from the government have defined the limits of what triggers quarantine and how the rules are used. In one case, a politician established a consulting company shortly before the termination of the post-paid period, thereby extending the quarantine period by three months. So, after a time, the company was wound up, with little or no income. It doesn't look good. It seems like a speculation in the legislation to get pay back longer. In another case, the Quarantine issue has come to the conclusion that a former State Council has broken the rules. However, they have only given him a warning and not a tactile response. Warnings do not get common people who break similar rules, for example. Nav, and then it should not be different for the top politicians. These are just two examples showing the difference between treatment top-level politicians get, and the reactions of others receiving public benefits are met. That is why we have proposed several changes in the way the quarantine system is designed, who enforces the rules, and what responses may be broken. This has been well explained by the representative Karin Andersen, and it is about making the rules governing politicians feel the same way everyone else is if they lose their job or break public service rules. The presidency's position is in many ways not to deal with the proposals, pending another work under the direction of the Ministry of Local Affairs. But we note that the proposals should be involved in that work, the suspension of the presidency, and I assume that they will be followed up. We in SV believe – and it must be said – that Stortinget itself should take responsibility for this and not push it. It would have been an excellent opportunity to adopt these proposals now, and then the audit work could follow it up and sign it out. Then we show that we take responsibility for cleaning up. I believe that both our democracy and the confidence of the Storting would have been good.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e787	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e803	The President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes for each party group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no loopholes, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e812	The Presidency hereby submits proposals to the Governing Board of the Norwegian Institute for Human Rights, NIM, for the period from 1 July 2019 to 30. ==References== NIM was established by law on 1 July 2015 and is organisationally subject to the Stortinget. The main task of the institution is to promote and protect human rights in line with the Constitution, human rights laws and other laws, international treaties and international law. In compliance with the laws, Storing should select a NIM controller. The Management Board shall consist of five members and shall be elected for a period of four years. The law provides for directors to represent different disciplines, including: legal competence in human rights and competence in business management. One of the members shall have specific knowledge of Sami matters. In addition, each sex is required to be represented by at least two members. With this in mind, the Presidency has proposed the following candidates to the Governing Board: as the Chairman of the Board, Marit Berger Røsland is proposed. Berger Røsland is a lawyer in the legal department of Equinor ASA. She formerly has our EU and EEA ministers in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and State Secretary in the same department, in the Ministry of Justice and Defence and in the Prime Minister's office. She also has our lawyer in Wiersholm and the magistrate in Oslo district court. As a nest leader, Nils Asbjørn Engstad is proposed. Engstad is the judge of Halogaland law and the tenant of the Finnish State Court of Foreign Affairs. He once has our State Secretary in the Ministry of Justice and Defence. Since 2004, he has been our Norwegian representative in the Council of Europe's consultative council of judges, and he was President there in 2016 and 2017. The Presidency also proposes that the current members of the board of directors of NIM Gro Dikkanen, Jan E. Helgesen and Anne-Sophie Syvertsen be listed for a new period under the third paragraph of Section 5 of the Act. Gro Dikkanen is a lawyer with rights as a special subject, Jan E. Helgesen is princely amanuensis at the Norwegian Center for Human Rights at the University of Oslo and Anne-Sofie Syvertsen is the county and department director at the county of Agder. We have registered the proposal submitted by SV to find another leader who is independent of the government. I can understand the desire, but I can assure you that we have evaluated many candidates, and after an overall assessment of the board and the candidates who are involved and can take on such a position, there is a unified presidency that will present the election of a new board. We think there's good reason to trust that this board can do a good job for NIM.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e829	Norway’s human rights institution, NIM, is a very important human rights organisation in Norway. NIM is a watchbitch, a watchbitch that reports on the state of human rights in Norway to the Stortinget, with clear criticism and recommendations to weigh heavily. The main task of the institution is to promote and protect human rights in line with the Constitution, the Human Rights Act and other legislation, international treaties and international law. NIM has recently played an important role in, for example: in criticising human rights violations against mentally ill people in our prisons. They have challenged the power of our obligations to stop violence and abuse, and they have pledged our obligations to the Sami indigenous population – to mention something. Therefore, it is profoundly serious that the presidency chooses to propose a person to the chairman of this institution who has such close ties to and is a close ally of the current government and the Prime Minister. Marit Berger Røsland, as the presidency suggests, is probably a very competent Chairman's candidate, but she has been both the Council of State and the Secretary of State – even at the Prime Minister's office – in the current government. There have been others with political background in former regimes – yes, it is true – but no one has been so close to the sitting government. It weakens Norway’s institution for the independence and legitimacy of human rights as a watchdog for the state of human rights in Norway. The work they do is too important for their recommendations and criticism to be questioned because of such close ties. Therefore, SV will not accept the Presidency’s proposal to the Chairperson. Rather, we have made a proposal today to ask the presidency to come back and promote a new candidate without such close links with the current government. I want to address this proposal. Then I see that no one else has drawn himself while I've been talking. I would like to ask for a further statement from the members of the Presidency on the stability, the close links and the assessments that have been made, and whether this can contribute to and weaken the independence of this important institution, because we cannot allow that. There is still the opportunity for someone from the presidency to sign up to answer further, in addition to the representative before me, who did not go into the heart of the matter, but who just quickly said that this was an overall assessment. I hope it was an overall assessment – I assume so – but no one has yet responded to the major challenges of independence, as we actually see. It's a shame if these challenges are not answered in the hall today. I just get to register that this is how it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e840	The representative Freddy André Supreme Court has taken up the proposal he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e858	At the request of the Presidency, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no loopholes, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e867	The Presidency makes proposals in the configuration for new leader, vice-leader and members of the Steering Committee for Intelligence, Surveillance and Security Services, the EOS selection. Under the EOS control, the selection shall have seven members, including leaders and vice-leaders. Everyone is selected by Stortinget after the election of the Presidentship of Stortinget for a period of up to five years. A member may be listed once and for a maximum period of 10 years. Three of the EOS Committee's members are on election this year. These are the leaders of the selection, Eldbjørg Løwer, and the selection members Theo Koritzinsky and Inger Marie Sunde. In addition, Håkon Haugli has asked for an exemption from the employment. The three non-elected members are Svein Gronn, Øyvind Waksdal and Elfrid Hövstedal, all of whom are elected until 30 June 2021. The Presidency has focused on identifying candidates who have the necessary trust and integrity to both the Storting, the services concerned and the public. In addition, emphasis has been placed on finding candidates with a wide range of relevant experience for the important tasks of the selection on behalf of the Stortinget. As the new leader of the EOS selection, Svein Greenner is proposed. The Greens have a long and solid experience as the next leader of the EOS selection through a series of years. The greenner is proposed to be named as a leader until his term of office expires on 30 June 2021. As new members of the selection, the presidency proposes Astri Aas-Hansen, Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa, Camilla Bakken Øvald and Erling Johannes Husbø. The Presidency also proposes that Astri Aas-Hansen be named as the new Vice-Chairman of the EOS selection.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e880	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications. 7 and 8 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e909	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The rapporteur, Mr Solveig Sundbø Abrahamsen, is not present in the Chamber, so we will proceed to the Council of State of Jon Georg Dale.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e920	I'm recording that the case spokesperson is now in the Chamber, but if the President thinks I should start the post, I'll of course do it. The government has reviewed these two proposals for representatives, which are currently under consideration. Several of those proposals are basically good intentions behind them. Some of them are in work, others are harder to do and need further work. I therefore refer to the answers I have given in writing to the Committee during the preparation of this setting. Basically, it is crucial that we be able to keep up with a serious and safe transport industry that also helps to ensure that we are safe on the Norwegian road. The representative proposal from Red, which deals with how we actively control it, I feel that I have good intentions in it. The government has significantly strengthened both the requirements for heavy transport and its control and supervision. Nevertheless, for us, it has been important to listen to several professional advice when we design how we supervise. Simply put, at different times, we need to exercise supervision in different places in order to be sure that, in sum, we get well enough control of heavy transport. A good example of what makes me recommend not to adopt the proposal from Red is for example. the attempts we had in winter that were. There we first controlled one day at the Swedish border, carried out checks on all heavy cars there, and then we moved to Lærdal. The day after we took a driver on the Swedish border and imposed it, we took the same driver again in Lærdal without him following up the instructions he had received. If all the control activity was spent on the limit, we wouldn't be able to achieve it. The second is that several of these proposals, including those from the Labour Party, are about how we manage the cabotage code. That's interesting. If we are to have effective control of the cabotage operation, so that the cabotage operation that is taking place is legal, it does not help with border control. It is not possible to control cabotage. So the fact that we use our control business efficiently and differently, suggests that we get better results on the control activity that is going on. At the same time, there are too many o'clocks with heavy running clothes on Norwegian winter roads. Fortunately, developments are moving in the right direction. It does it through several handles at the same time, but there is still room and need to tighten up the legislation further. This means that in the winter we have now been in, we also send orders to get fixed, for example. tightening up the requirements for winter tyre equipment, as I also feel that the Labour Party is in charge of its proposal for a representative. On that we're basically a few. There is now work going on, and I have always said that the ambition is that we should have new legislation, for example. associated with winter tyre equipment already until the winter that comes after the summer of this year. I therefore believe that several of these proposals are taken care of in the work that has been started. I understand, however, that there are several proposals with good intentions behind them, and we are constantly considering what improvements we can make, but we are doing it in a balance between what is professionally right and what is politically possible, and not least through the active influence we have had over the last few years through the Road Alliance, in order to also improve international regulation, which, after all, is what regulates a lot of heavy goods transport in and out of the country. Cross-border traffic is challenging to achieve sensible solutions. We'll get it if we can have a pan-European code. For this reason, we have been working very actively with Western European countries to improve, for example. on cabotage. The last months before summer this year, the right road has gone. Now there has been a choice, so we can see how this is now happening in the European Parliament and in the Commission later.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e939	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e944	Analysis of Norwegian accident data shows that foreign heavy goods vehicles have three times the risk of being involved in an accident other than Norwegian heavy goods vehicles, twice the risk of meeting accidents and almost twice the risk of collision with a vehicle running in the same direction. Foreign drivers in Norway also appear to be more likely to trigger fatal accidents than Norwegian drivers. The analysis carried out by TØI concludes with two important risk factors, namely that experience and competence in driving on Norwegian roads and winter driving is very important. Could not smaller cross-border traffic be a measure in this situation? Does the government not see a reduction in cabotage traffic?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e951	I'm in favour of a strict code on cabotage running – let me just say it first. But if we say we're not going to have any kind of cabotage operation, the likely outcome of that would not be a smaller cross-border traffic, for goods are going out of Norway and into Norway. It's going to lead to more trucks on the roads instead, and that's the real dilemma. If the goods arrive and we have to have several empty cars running out of the country without carrying goods on the road, there will be more trucks, greater need and probably also greater risk of accidents. I wish there was a quick fix solution to this. Unfortunately, I don't think so, but I think we need to continue to work with regulatory design and continue to tighten up requirements, among other things. the winter competence requirement. Norway has been actively working for us to put in place a pan-European code for which we are now on the stairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e956	There are several things that must be put in place in this case. To the extent that the parties to the government have come to us, something has come to light on one of the proposals that we have promoted, namely the development of an environmental aid scheme for more freight transport by rail. The center part added 100 million. kr in our alternative budget, and then we increased it by 60 million. kr in the revised budget, because we see that it is so important inside. If we can't be offensive enough, we can actually get into the situation that a quantity of goods equal to one quarter of a million car combinations is transferred to the road. How can we speed up the transfer of goods to the track? The 80 million. kr entered into the revised version is too small.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e963	The difference between the government and the Central Party is that we adhere to state aid law when we propose arrangements. The proposal of the Central Party is illegal. That's what I'm talking about. We have therefore committed ourselves to the ceiling for legal support for the transfer of goods. From next year, there is maximum support, and what is allowed, the government will propose. What the Centre Party is calling for is contrary to what we are doing. It is far more important that there are many things that can contribute to the transfer of goods. This support scheme is one thing. Another thing is improvements in the infrastructure that make it possible with better regularity. Another measure we are now considering is whether we can give more priority to the fact that freight trains are allowed to go at the time when they get the cards down. The Nordlandsbana is an example of this. The Railways Directorate is now looking at it, so we're working along several axes to contribute to the transport of goods from road to road.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e970	I now received a signature from the Minister of Transport in yesterday's debate in Stortinget, so I get a little praise back to the Minister of Transport today. At least we have received a thorough letter from the Minister for Transport, with views on the ten proposals that the Labour Party has made – where there is no agreement in all, but at least it was a thorough and solid letter back from the Ministry of Transport. With regard to the first proposal, the Workers' Party has promoted, i.e. that all foreign tour operators are required to register in the VAT register, and that the VAT registration limit is actually lowered from today's NOK 50 000 to NOK 1 000, we have received input from both the tourist industry itself and the trade union movement that there would be a very good measure to address the situation of unprofessional foreign buses. Why is the Minister for Transport against it?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e977	First of all, the issue of where VAT limits are located lies with the Ministry of Finance, so I refer you to the assessments that the Ministry of Finance has previously made and gave the Ministry of Finance on these questions. I think we have everything to do with a harmonised VAT code. The vast majority of operations that take place on the basis of a VAT limit of $50,000, which is very low in Norway initially, we generally think we have the need for it, and that makes most tour operators operating in Norway, regardless of the VAT limit. Therefore, we have considered that there is a relatively small targeted measure, while there is a distortion measure, with differentiated boundaries between actors based on nationality.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e982	Let me go over to one of the other suggestions, and that is what concerns winter equipment and – more specifically – winter tyres. Now we have actually come into the situation that Germany has stricter requirements for winter tyres than what we have in Norway. In his letter from the Minister of Transport to the Committee, which was sent on 14 May, he wrote that the Directorate of Road would send a proposal to the hearing in a short time to get the same rules as Germany has. I assume that it has now been sent out to the hearing, and that the Road Directorate is working on that matter. Then the Minister of Transport writes: ‘The aim is to introduce a stricter requirement for winter tyres as soon as possible and before the next winter season.’ My question is quite simply: does the Minister for Transport get it in place? Will winter tyres be subject to more stringent requirements from the next winter season?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e990	That is my clear ambition. Then I have to take the necessary rest on what the hearing shows – otherwise it would not be necessary to send it on the listener – but that is my clear ambition. Then there is a challenge that we see in particular — and that discussion also has many other countries — if only one should demand winter tyre equipment with a higher classification, which the Labour Party is now taking up, on the towing vehicle itself, or if one should also do so on dredges. It's a little different how other countries practice it, and there are some complicated dimensions in it, but that's the kind of input we have to make in the listening round, also among the economic operators who have made investments in tyre equipment that are then worthless for all practical purposes. We are working on the assumption that this will be in place for the next winter season, but I have to take the necessary feedback that things do not appear in the ear ring that we are currently not aware of.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e997	We know very little about how many foreign trailers are in Norway at all times. We don't have the overview, and much less we know which laws and regulations they break. We just don't have an instrument to get that overview. Now, about the entire transport industry is in total demand for a digital transport register, and I know it's been up and running in this tripartite industry program several times. The industry is incredibly impatient now, and they wonder if the government is running with some kind of political filibuster on purpose to postpone the introduction of such a register. Then the question to the Council of State is: How far has the Council of State been working on such a transport register, and how extensive is it going to be?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1004	It is sadly too early to say at last, both when it comes to propulsion or how extensive such solutions can be landed. I agree with the representative from SV – and I feel that there are actually some Stortinget – that we need to have an adequate overview and control system. Now we have, among other things: Through the Road Alliance, which I was also in my post, work actively to ensure that the rules we have, which allow us to track the time a vehicle runs into Norway and have real-time information about where it happens, also means that we can carry out more risk-based control. It's about making sure that we get it done as soon as possible. So here's a series of measures that can lead to goals. For me, this has been the most important thing: to take action that works, which means that we have overview and control when we supervise the transport industry, and then we see how we best achieve the concrete results.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1009	There are some who serve to thinn drivers to the extreme, are underpaid and exploited in the most serious way to get the cheapest possible transport, and they are transport buyers, and they have a so-called 'career' duty to ensure that drivers get the pay they are entitled to and have proper working conditions. And then studies show that eight out of ten transport buyers give the bluff in the bag duty. Then the question is, what can make more transport buyers take the obligation seriously? We believe that getting fines for those who break the obligation to watch and give the scam to follow it up could have a preventative effect if the fines are large enough and proper enough. I wonder if the Dale Council agrees with this and will go in for juicy fines for transport buyers who thus violate the duty of passports they prove to have?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1016	The duty of care is constitutional to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, but I'm still going to come up with some considerations on our part. I agree that transport buyers have that obligation, and I believe that they should take that responsibility seriously to an even greater extent than some of the open-ended ones. I have also called in several large transport buyers to remind them of their obligations, and not least to ask what routines they have to follow up. I do not care about higher fines for fractions on this. Still, it's so sad that it's hard to know who in one place and everything has to go by. We're looking at a part of the transport purchase, because what might be in order at first instance are contracts that are resold in second place. For example, transport buyers say: one has agreed and bought a service with one carrier, but that contract has been sold two or three times. This means that we have a practical problem, which one also has to solve.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1025	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1030	First of all, I have to be very sorry that I was late to make my statement to the President-in-Office, so I am here for the case-speaker, Jonny Finstad. The cases deal with two representative proposals on safer transport measures and to get rid of dangerous road trains on the Norwegian road. The proposals are made by the representative of the Red Party and the Labour Party. The case spokesperson would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in these matters. All parties want, and work for, more security in the Norwegian way – the way to the goal may be a little different. The representative proposals have a background in the many serious traffic events in winter and that dangerous foreign vehicle combinations have been increasingly focused. Together, there are 14 different actions. Several of the proposals deal with policy areas other than transport. In detailed replies to the Committee by the Council of State, the Minister for Transport has therefore received statements from other departments. In Norway we have a number of control bodies to ensure that Norwegian law and international legislation in the transport sector are followed. It is important that the Road Administration, the police, the Labour Inspectorate, customs services, and more at all times have sufficient resources for control work, have the necessary competence and interact well across to detect illegalities. The vast majority of operators in the industry adhere to Norwegian law and legislation, and it is important to identify crime and violations of working and pay conditions in the transport sector in order to provide serious operators in the industry with better conditions of competition and to ensure decent conditions for drivers. It is Right's experience that it has always been with the government in cooperation with the industry, the etats and internationally over the years to work continuously on the issues raised in these cases. The majority, that is to say the government party, are pleased that the government has already stepped up its efforts with the continuous and broad efforts to put in place measures to ensure transport on the Norwegian road. In order to be closed, a long-term work needs to be carried out in several policy and societal areas, in close cooperation with the various agencies, industries, industry and organisations. Good cooperation with other countries, too, in order to improve common and harmonised regulations and laws within the EU, will be crucial in order to put more of the measures into practice. For example, the government has work systematically over the years to strengthen EU requirements for professional skills under extreme living and working conditions, which will come into force from 2020. The government has also seen a number of concrete control measures and regulatory changes, including: with more stringent requirements for approved winter tyres, enhanced control powers and increased strategic cooperation between etatates to detect social dumping. So the government is now working further with further current and concrete measures to create safer transport on the Norwegian road, including measures relating to the themes and proposals. The right, therefore, looks forward to continuous improvement in this area as concrete national and international measures are put in place and implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1051	The background to the proposals for representatives is that, in recent and last winter, there has been a strong focus – from the press, various actors, the transport industry and here from the Stortinget – on the road safety challenges of particularly foreign vehicle trains on winter roads in Norway. The situation observed in Norwegian winter roads is not a new phenomenon. In Northern Norway, this has been the situation over many years. In most cases, the cause of accidents is lack of competence and equipment, but in many cases the cause is also poor road standards. In the area I come from, it is so that there are some places where you have two and three fishing trailers that are «on the forest», almost every winter. Yes, those who are neighbors there, say that when the lion falls off the forest, it becomes dressed a new theme, and it is of either salmon or cod coming on the branches of the forest. It shall be safe to travel on Norwegian winter roads. Wagon trains that are not shunted for Norwegian winter roads are to be removed from the roads. In the light of several accidents in the last winter, measures have been put in place to improve road safety and the promotion of winter roads. In the light of serious accidents involving heavy goods vehicles this winter, the Minister of Transport asked the State Road Administration to strengthen the control effort in Norway, and in particular in North Norway. The Customs Authority was empowered to strengthen the tyre and chain checks at the border crossing points. The increased control effort has revealed major deficiencies in vehicle combinations and other industry illegalities. This clearly demonstrates the need for cross-border cooperation in order to achieve good results. Stopping all vehicle combinations at border crossings is impracticable – or appropriate. One will use unnecessary resources to control many car combinations that are in order. Risk-based control in combination with digital solutions is probably the most effective measure. There's a difference between shaving and cutting off your head. As part of the EU's internal market, it is important that we follow up the agreements we have concluded and show ourselves as a good partner, so that we can influence new legislation for the benefit of our own market. Social dumping and illegalities must be zero tolerance. Penalties must come quickly and be of such strength that they deter repetition. In 2018, interaction plans were launched between the Vegvesen, the police, the Labour Inspectorate, the customs office and the tax administration – precisely to improve our ability to address these problems in a better way. The proposals contained in the proposals for representatives are all taken into account in the work undertaken by the government. We are hoped that this will help to improve conditions on the winter roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1066	Then we have also tried it – to have posts from the Council of State and to change lines first. It worked, too. Every winter it is the same newspaper headlines about foreign trucks lying in the ditch or in other ways that hinder traffic and create major problems. That's why the Workers' Party wanted to promote this proposal now in ours, so that we could also discuss it between the winter seasons, so that this not only becomes a theme when it's winter and smooth and bad roads. Now something has to be done, and that is why the Labour Party has put forward ten concrete proposals. This is about trucks in winter driving, but it is also about many other things. In the past, when we talked about measures to clean up the transport industry, it has often been about technical things – tyres, chains, toll pits and that kind of thing. All of this is important – very important – but it is also important that we work on what has to do with pay and working conditions in the transport sector. There is a clear link between road safety, accidents and wage and working conditions in the industry. This is linked, and therefore something must be done to combat social dumping in the transport sector. There is also a contributing reason for the representative proposal from the Workers' Party, with the ten specific points to which the Centre Party and SV have joined very happily. Time does not allow me to go through all ten proposals thoroughly, but they are well explained in the draft representative and are also in the vote, so let me just briefly mention some of them. In recent years, we have seen many examples of what is happening to the tourism industry in Norway. In many places it is almost uncompetitive by foreign actors, foreign actors with – I think I would say – varying degrees of seriousness. After recording both from the tourism industry itself and from the employees' organisations in the tourism industry, we have therefore proposed that the limit on registration in the VAT register be lowered so that all the tourbus services are recorded and answered by VAT. All foreign tour bus operators should be required to register in the VAT register. It is a concrete, simple proposal that should be possible to put in place quite quickly. The Labour Inspectorate and the State Road Administration must increase the control activities if we are to get more serious and get the unprofessional operators out of the transport industry. We also believe that increased demands need to be made for physical equipment in the cars during winter driving, but also increased requirements for the competence of drivers in winter driving. We should have grasped this now and put in place stricter rules before the next winter season. It is also important that the contracting entity in the transport chain, i.e. the purchaser of the transport contract, be given greater co-responsibility for their purchase of transport services. From other industries — construction, e.g. – we have seen that when the person with the top responsibility is also held responsible, it is very effective. We should also do the same with transport operations. The purchaser of the transport operation should have a more stringent legal, economic and insurance co-responsibility when purchasing transport services. The State is also a major owner, and the country's ownership of the companies in which it is owned or partly owned must also be used to work for the seriousness of the transport industry and to avoid social dumping. Finally, I would like to address the proposals No. 1 and 2 of case No. 8, from the Workers' Party, the Center Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1089	The representative Sverre Myrli then mentioned the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1094	People have been afraid to drive on Norwegian winter roads, and the dangerous heavy transport is the main reason for it. I'll quote the traffic stops in the north to underline the seriousness of the situation: «We live in Northern Norway winter, we live with the time to upgrade the road network in the region, but we do not live with the fact that foreign road trains, unsuitable for winter driving and our winter roads, become a greater and greater threat to all of us.» The TØI report entitled ‘Internationalisation of the carriage of goods by road: safety consequences, risk factors and measures’ is very clear that lack of experience and competence in driving on Norwegian winter roads and winter driving is the greatest risk. People in the Center Party at all levels are concerned with safe heavy transport and safe roads, but when we were working to promote a case about this, Red was faster out. We chose to use this case to promote our proposals instead of doing like the Workers' Party, which promoted a separate case in retrospect. This winter there have been several tragic events on Norwegian winter roads, with poorly-skinned car combinations and drivers who do not master Norwegian winter conditions. The checks have revealed significant deficiencies in too many vehicle combinations and also in the industry. The situation is serious and permanent measures are essential for safer heavy transport. There is a connection between dangerous vehicle combinations, widespread cabotage operation and pay and working conditions. It is also very important to coordinate the control efforts of the various control modes, and control officers must have the necessary sanctions. Proposal No. 1 from the Centre Party is: ‘The government is asked to reduce the number of possible cabotage operations from three to two. Proposal No. 2 is: ‘The Government requests the introduction of electronic consignment note requirements for the transport industry.’ – This consignment note shall be linked to a real-time register. Proposal No. 3 is: ‘The government is asking for advance payment or other guarantee solutions to ensure that all foreign vehicle combinations pay tolls.’ Proposal No. 4 is: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that fines related to the illegal use of duty-free diesel are equal for Norwegian and non-resident carriers.’ — Today, the penalty for Norwegian carriers is stricter. Proposal No. 5 is: ‘The Government is asking the Government to introduce a compulsory course at the level of Norwegian drivers to master Norwegian winter roads and to set stricter standards for the winter equipment of cars.’ Proposal No. 6 is: «The government is asked to establish an environmental aid scheme for rail freight. The environmental aid scheme must facilitate the movement of a greater proportion of the goods from road to rail.’ I brought this up with the Minister during the exchange of lines, and it really is urgent, because if we have a breakdown of goods on the track, which we are actually about to get, the quantity of goods corresponding to one quarter of a million wagon trains per year will be transferred to the road. The Minister then referred to EEA legislation which limits what we can do in Norway with our own legislation and instruments. I hope that more and more people will see how strongly the EEA Agreement restricts the national space for action. I also refer to the treatment of the Central Party's representative proposal last Friday in Stortinget, Document 8:104 for 2018–2019, which ensures that companies, such as bus companies resident in the rest of the world, have to pay VAT from the first kroner traded in Norway. This proposal has been re-examined by the Workers' Party in a Document 8 proposal. So those who voted the wrong Friday have the opportunity to fix it today. I'm taking up the proposal of the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1146	The representative Siv Mossleth has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1151	These two matters, No. Seven and eight belong together. This is a very serious aspect of Norwegian transport — and the whole Norwegian transport industry on the road. There are at least three important areas of concern to these transport operations. There has been a tendency that there are headlines about large combinations of vehicles across the road in winter – poorly equipped combinations of vehicles and poorly trained drivers get the headlines. But that's just the top of the iceberg. It's also all these other conditions that government parties don't point anything to and they're trying to avoid. This applies to the working conditions of drivers, to infringements of cabotage legislation and, in part, to driving and rest periods, etc. What we are talking about here is – point one: The differences in condition – in good and bad, we can say – between foreign and Norwegian carriers and drivers on cross-border transport. We are in terms of pay and employment, as I mentioned, but also the competitive conditions of Norwegian transport companies, and that is quite essential. The second point, of course, is the environmental question. More and more goods go on rubber wheels, while goods on rails and keel are losers. The third point is safety issues related to poorly-skinned foreign vehicle combinations, as I mentioned, and the lack of driving skills of foreign drivers. All of this is contained in the two freight proposals available here today. The background to this has been reported as also mentioned by the representative Mossleth: the EEA Agreement and the four freedoms. Of course, this is the case with the transfer of capital, labour and industrial activities. We have seen a huge increase in foreign vehicle trains in Norway, on Norwegian roads. Take a trip to Svinesund, you can see which international entry is there, and how little is the Norwegian entry. There's about no Norwegian speaking at that border station. There are large Baltic companies with 3,000 to 4,000 cars each, and they grow and grow with a couple of cars every day. We've also become part of it through e.g. Bring Trucking, which has established itself in Europe to lower wages and lower costs. They have to use the system the opposite way. This is not going to be an EEA debate, I will leave it, because there is also a lot we can do within the EEA legal framework. First of all, we need resources to control the legislation that is already there, but we also lack tools that the control bodies can use. It's obvious when we talk to the people who are out there, whether it's the Labour Inspectorate, the Road Service or the police -- that's, the police have a tool, but it doesn't work. I'll come back to that. SV has raised this many times with poor control of foreign vehicle trains in Norway. One of the biggest problems is what I mentioned in the line change with the Council of State, that we do not have a full overview of how many car combinations are in the country, what they do, and not whether they comply with the laws and regulations. We don't have an overview. The first bid in all decisions and in all administration, regardless of area, is that we have to have knowledge. We need to know what we're talking about, and we don't know that. SV has repeatedly, among others. in the representative proposal 22 S of this session, proposed a digital transport register. I want to ask for it all the time, every time I have an opportunity, until it's in place. I know that transport industry organisations are now becoming rather impatient here, and they have re-examined it in this tripartite industry programme. I say it again: the government is reluctant. I also said that this is similar to a government-based filibuster tactics. And what's behind that this is going to be endurance and endurance for so long? I can have my ideas about it. I can so far mention it if it is not passed on: Is it because these government parties are interested in the lowest possible cost for Norwegian carriers, or Norwegian contracting entities? I choose not to believe it, but I have my suspicions about it. So I would just like to comment briefly that we are voting against three of the solutions, the proposals No. 8 9 and 10 from the Red Group, while we support proposal No. 11th@item: inlistbox Then I'll come back to the proposal of the Center Party – we support many of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1166	And the representative wants to address the SV's proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1171	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1176	The representative Arne Nävra then addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1181	Kabotage is not large in Norway, but it is increasing. I guess it's 3.2 pst. for business now and is so increasing that we should really apply new measures. Fortunately, a process in the EU has come a long way. It seems that there can be a regulation that is clearly improved in relation to today, that we can get a little more control over cabotage driving – and perhaps also that it does not grow as it has in recent years. The Left also welcomes modern technology to control illegalities. The Committee was on Svinesund and was involved in the control of large car combinations not long ago – almost a month, maybe. It was quite interesting to see how you could check the car's condition, and not least see what was inside the car, and what you carried. It was a very modern technology that was effective in revealing illegalities. So you have to bet more on that. It's very good – both the competence of the controllers, as I perceived it, and not least the equipment. The government will now implement a support scheme for the transport of goods by train. Unfortunately, we have seen a clear drop in the use of trains. There are several reasons for this, including: that it is competition, but I still hear the carriers say that the price of e.g. The distance between Oslo and Trondheim is lower when driving by train than by car. But there are some other challenges that are in disfavor of the train, and that is especially the time use. When you drive from Alna to Trondheim, to the freight terminal at Heimdal, you use almost ten hours, while a car runs in seven hours. It is clear that these three hours are very valuable for many who carry goods, given the costs and expectations of the customer. That is why it is very important for the work that has been started, for example. cross-rails, longer crossing tracks on the Dovreban – and on Kvam and on Ler it is now under construction – and it is expected that they will be put into service quite soon. That's why this is a very important and correct time for the government to go in and support this, so that this industry, i.e. goods by train, does not fall completely away. Still, there are five trains per day – about – going from Oslo to Trondheim, and we are hoping that we will get up in six and seven trains again quite soon, as it was a few years ago. Another thing is that maybe the best freight line, and the most economical, compared to the car, is actually Trondheim–Bodø. It's long, and I guess that's how trains are best suited when there's long distances. Unfortunately, it is a little too little goods, but at least it should be improved so that we do not lose momentum considering that trains have great advantages. What the government is doing now is exciting. At the same time, we have to be vigilant when situations arise that are unfortunate, so that we solve them gradually.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1198	In January, a vehicle combination lost control of the E8 in Troms. The vehicle hit a passenger car, and Charlie Dan Lind ended up in a coma. He was until he lost his life in March. His mother said that when he died, he took a piece of her heart with him. Charlie never comes back, but this tragedy should help stop dangerous vehicle trains in the future and control them at the border. The mother of Charlie, Ramona Lind, said the following in the trial after the accident: ‘It is frustrating to hear of an accident that could have been avoided if the authorities had done what they should have done years ago. They were to prevent drivers with these unsuitable vehicles and the lack of driving skills for Norwegian roads from crossing the border.’ That no more is done and has been done is not about lack of knowledge, but about lack of political will. That is why we asked for immediate action in winter against dangerous vehicle trains on Norwegian roads. There were almost daily life-threatening situations with vehicle combinations out of control, which got into the wrong lane, or which got tossed on the trailer. That no more lives were lost in winter, we shall be very pleased, but the next winter we must be leading the war. We want to check the vehicle combinations at the border, stop the death traps at the border, and stop the cabotage. Today, there is one business model for transport services. It is the EU's, and it is a free float, the cheapest driver possible and the cheapest vehicle possible. This leads to social dumping. This leads to low wages, lack of plans, fewer breaks, no time to either eat or sleep well when you are on a job, and drivers who have not received a course in winter driving or training to ensure the load so that the hanger does not get into the wrong lane at a rough turn. Many people out there know that the underpaid, stunned and worn-out drivers in vehicles with worn-out tyres are life-threatening. We know that when checking the border at mountain crossings, as many as half of the cars are checked, driving bans. This shows us that we need a much stronger tilt than what we've seen up to now from the government. We also know that cabotage is undermining the entire transport industry in Norway. This means using far more reasonable drivers than we have in Norway, for domestic transport between destinations in our country. It is actually forbidden, but the EU has forced us to introduce an exception to this. We want that exception to be removed in red, and that was the proposal that the Progress Party also accepted when they were in opposition. Then they would also get away the cabotage, but today, in government, they are ringing around the same cabotage of fear of the EU. We also know that someone makes money in the cheapest way possible transport. It's a transport buyer. They have an obligation to ensure that the drivers they use are entitled to pay, but this obligation ignores the buyers. So eight out of ten transport buyers are giving the bluff in the sweater, and they have to be punished if they do. Six out of ten drivers who drive cabotage within the tourist bus market, we know that they do not receive Norwegian wages – some as little as 2 euros per hour. This is a shame. It undermines the entire Norwegian transport industry. It is impossible for one to serve a Norwegian mortgage and have Norwegian costs, to compete against drivers who have down to EUR 2 per hour. This has to be tightened up. It is necessary to impose fines which are really unfair to transporters who ignore the obligation to hold their passports. It's Red, among other things. suggests. We hope that the Stortinget today takes responsibility, implements and adopts measures that can put an end to the fact that we have dangerous road trains on our roads, and ensures the safety of those who travel daily on Norwegian roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1218	Would the representative like to address the Red's proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1223	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1228	The representative Bears Moxnes has taken up the suggestions he referred to. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1236	Both cases initially address issues that are involved in making Norwegian roads more unsafe than necessary, including the increasing pressure on wage and employment in this sector, as this is linked. This week we could read about two Polish car combinations that drove together and were stopped at E18 at Porsgrund. They were both banned from use because the load was too wide according to Norwegian rules, and they did not have a follow-up car. So they got a ban on use. Five hours later, after the check was over, they were re-stopped at the E39 at Crossmoen. Now, of course, they're being charged with these conditions. In the control of the Crossmo, a Latvian driver was also stopped. He tried correctly to avoid control by passing by, but he was stopped and directed back to the checkpoint. It turned out that the vehicle was very wrong. Among other things, the driver had not registered driving and rest periods. He drove with defective brakes, had rough overload and had no driving licenses. Fortunately, these two examples went well. But these are just a few examples of what's happening on Norwegian roads. If nothing happens, I look with horror until another winter with such transports on smooth, Norwegian winter roads. In its comment on proposal No. 8 that the Ministry of Transport has no direct management responsibility for state interests in companies carrying out road transport operations. This is a rewriting of the truth that the Workers' Party does not like. The fact that Norwegian state-owned companies are involved in escalating these conditions is undoubtedly the case. In the last few years we have regularly heard reports about the company Bring Trucking, which is owned by Posten, and which has established itself in Eastern Europe with one thing in mind: getting cheap drivers as participants in the negative spiral in terms of pay and employment in the European transport sector. We know that it is the State, at the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries, that manages the interests. So far, the ministry is not privatized, but who knows – in these privatisation times. Once again, the government is trying to clean up.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1251	The representative proposal from the Workers' Party takes the big picture related to safety on Norwegian roads. We still see examples of things happening on our roads that shouldn't happen. A repeater is a non-resident wagon train that is not protected for Norwegian winter roads. In Finnland very much is being transported by fish along our roads. Unfortunately, it is not rarely diet that the roads are blocked by trailers that have heavy loads and not really winter equipment. The need for training is present, and we need to ensure that drivers entering Norway are qualified to deal with Norwegian winter roads, which can be steep, narrow and icy. The conclusion of this must be that the State Road Service must increase border and roadside checks, not only in the country but also along the roads, in order to ensure quality. The committee met the Statens vägvesen on Svinesund and received interesting information from them. They told, among other things: that they had had a great control in the north in the last winter, and unfortunately reported that there were very many critical conditions in that control. We know that many drivers in the transport industry are underpaid and victims of social dumping. It is an abuse of people, but it also works distortingly for the Norwegian transport industry. It is necessary to take action to control infringements of both the Labour Environment Act and the Road Traffic Act. The State has many instruments to regulate and secure transport: legislation, control and follow-up. Proposal No. 8 of the Workers' Party's proposal states that the State should use its ownership to actively promote a serious working life, with a level playing field in the transport sector, and that State companies and businesses should comply with the serious requirements. It will be easier if Norway puts this on the agenda, so that foreign operators are aware of the requirements in Norway and what it would mean if they were not followed. The representative proposal has been well reviewed in order to identify a direction for a safer and more decent transport sector in Norway. I have rarely been so disappointed to register that the majority parties do not find voting for one single proposal and vote it down.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1264	The working party fights for a safe and fair working life, with full, permanent jobs and a wage to live on. That is why we are promoting a number of proposals on how to ensure this throughout our working life, including in the transport sector. But also in this area, we see a passive government, which is either unwilling to listen, or pushing the problems ahead. We see increasing differences in employment, both in pay and in power, putting pressure on our working life and on the Norwegian social model. This is particularly evident in the transport industries, which are themselves cross-border, and which live in very tough international competition. There are always people who can make the job cheaper, and therefore many workers are forced to compete against each other for increasingly poor pay and working conditions – a race to the bottom that we cannot sit still and watch. Employers who initially want to run seriously and treat their employees properly say that they are also almost forced to operate as they are unprofessional — if they do not lose in competition. New forms of organisation and new technological arrangements make workers a part of a working life moving towards a labour-union society. The Workers' Party will help them to win more competitions seriously and to increase the safety of workers. In addition to clear rules, effective supervision and strict penalties, I would like to point to the responsibility of the orderer. We cannot continue with a development in which the orderer chooses exclusively on the basis of price, and that companies that order only close their eyes on the pay and working conditions of drivers. Therefore, we propose to have a clearer responsibility for the contracting entities when purchasing transport services. Public actors have a specific responsibility. In the case of the country as owner, a clear indication must be given not to participate in the low-priced carousel. Leadership and responsibility must be taken to contribute to a serious working life, and here the government has a clear responsibility for what signals are being given. Instead of getting excuses and disclaimers, we would like to hear what the government intends to do with its ownership of state actors in order to contribute to a serious working life. Municipalities that order transport should also make use of good safety requirements, such as: The Oslo model. Unfortunately, we do not get a majority for our proposals, but the Labour Party promises to continue the fight for a responsible working life, a strengthened Norwegian business life and safety along our roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1279	The Centre Party has promoted a number of proposals in these documents. It is a follow-up to our decision at the national meeting, where this was debated very thoroughly and, I would say, with great enthusiasm and really a little audacity. People had a lot of concrete examples that this is a situation that arises on Norwegian roads, and that everyone wants to do something with, including the government, but it's hard. That's what this is about. After many debates in the United Kingdom, we have come to the realization that the measures and follow-up are important here and how they are done. Our proposals deal with both cabotage and electronic shipping letters connected to real-time registers that allow better cooperation with different control bodies. We have proposals on guarantee solutions for tolls, on fines for the illegal use of plant diesel, on compulsory courses for mastering Norwegian winter roads and on environmental aid schemes for goods on the road – also to avoid, of course, dangerous heavy transport by drivers who do not master Norwegian roads. We will also refer to the treatment of the representative proposal Document 8:104 for 2018–2019, which ensures that companies, for example bus companies resident in the rest of the world, have to pay VAT from the first kroner traded in Norway. The central party believes that the government needs to step up control of foreign buses, for example. to ensure that the companies that own the buses are registered in the VAT register. We know about a matter mentioned in the NRK, about the cabotage regulations. The rules for bus companies are slightly different from those for heavy goods vehicles. It is a temporary cabotage code and that control is almost impossible to follow up. What that means in practice is that we have foreign buses in Norway, which are here throughout the season and are not outside the Norwegian border, and they operate only domestically, within the Norwegian market. In addition, they don't pay tolls, and they don't make up for themselves in other ways. This is a job that needs to be intensified quite considerably. Finally, I would like to say something about the appropriateness of using administrative sanctions in the form of simplified proposals to ensure a more effective follow-up to infringements of cabotage legislation, including the level of submissions. This has been decided by the Storting, and what we're concerned about is that this is being followed up in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1294	I live in the municipality of North Norway, which has most car trains along its roads. It's because of fresh fish. When fresh fish are to be taken from the coast to the market, either by train or by train. The municipality I live in is called Narvik, for those who haven't understood it already. Very many vehicle combinations are going to the Narvik terminal, and that is good, because then the longest stretch is taken to the market by an electrified train via Sweden. I must mention to the representative Gunnes that the most profitable stretch of goods on trains is probably between Narvik and Alnabru. And as he was right in, it's because of the length of the distance. Unfortunately, a growing proportion of this fresh fish is leaving with car combinations, and there are several reasons for this. Unfortunately, you are not paid to choose environmentally friendly transport for your fish. We should have looked for solutions to that. In addition, the lack of investment in the track and the lack of and poor maintenance make the railway an unreliable path for many. It must be both accessible and reliable. A lot of freight trains leave Norway via a border crossing in the north, and most people do it via E10 and Bjørnberg. The road is very often closed, and the winter operating standard is far from what you can see, for example. on the border crossing in Eastfold over Svinesund. A lot of people have been afraid to drive a car on our roads in winter, and this is because of these car combinations. The representative of Moxnes was in the accident with a young student from Sortland who died. There was one alarm clock too many. There have been reports of very many people who have been slinged on the trailer on the Norwegian winter roads and got across in the opposite lane. That is why I am very pleased and will stress the importance of the requirements for tyres that include: The Workers' Party shall make proposals on this matter. It is very important that the requirements for tyres also apply to the suspensions. It is regrettable that the government does not support the proposal, but we can hope that they will do as they do some other time – vote it down in the first round and come back with the proposal under their own direction. I would like the customs clearance to be digitised over Bjørnfjell, because instead of customs spending time on customs clearance, it could be used for controls. Our narrow country with a long border with Sweden means that we have a lot of foreign actors on the way. The working party does not seem to be a solution to close this limit, such as SV, the Center Party and Red sometimes seem to mean. But we have to make demands on those who drive with us, and we see that working conditions mean a lot. It is very important that we take care of the employer's obligation to care for him.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1309	This is a problem we're working on continuously. I am not going to go into the individual proposals to a particular extent, because I believe the Council of State, as the representative Myrli also said in his statement, has given a quite detailed explanation of that. I also think the Council of State gave a good account of the ongoing work being done by the government, in the ministry, relating to these issues. We share a common goal. We have a zero vision for killed and seriously damaged traffic in the national transport plan. We are all concerned that we should have good and proper working conditions in the transport sector. This means that we largely share the common objectives of the development of the industry, at least in the broadest sense. I just want to point out some things that I think are a bit interesting in this debate. First, protectionism is not a solution for a small country on the outskirts of Europe, such as Norway, which is totally dependent on living off trade with others. On the contrary, we are totally dependent on having open borders – not open borders in the sense that there is a free front, but an open relationship with the rest of the world. We have to trade with others, and we have to make sure that we can also exchange goods across these borders. It also means that we have to accept that there are foreign actors running in Norway. There is a difference between legal cabotage and illegal cabotage and there is a difference between serious operators and unprofessional operators. We need to be quite clear that the unprofessional players want us out of this market, and that is possible. That's what it's working on in different areas. The transport buyer was mentioned here. Yes, I fully agree that the transport buyer has a significant responsibility here, and I believe that if you are to have sustainable businesses in the future, you also have to take responsibility for the transport of the goods to and from the market. It is not only useful to shift that responsibility to a transport industry, but also to take a considerable additional responsibility on the part of the carrier. This also means that the public as a transport buyer must take a significant responsibility for their orders. In addition, we have increased the number of checks. The representative of Grande is talking about a passive government. So we increased the number of checks with the quadruple when we took over in 2013, which was probably done in 2014 or 2015, I think. That means that if you want to describe this government as passive, what would you describe the previous government as? I think it's okay to bring the debate down to a rather realistic level. We carry out more checks, the checks are carried out smarter, and there is better coordination between the Labour Inspectorate, police and customs than it was before. I fully agree that strict sanctions are important. It is important to have tough charging rates. The Council of State clearly signals that there is something the government is working on, and I think it would be smart that we both decriminalise and give more opportunity to print a fee, but also that the fees are paying.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1326	The NHO Transport stated in the Online Newspaper that the point in the proposal of the Centre Party to ensure that companies, such as bus companies resident abroad, have to pay VAT from the first kroner traded in Norway, was very important. It'll give over 100 million. kr more in the treasury. It is more than the money that the government side has granted — and that has been notified for next year — to the environmental aid scheme for goods on the road. Equally important is the fact that there will be more fair conditions of competition in the tourism industry. In fact, the proposal is even more relevant today than when the Senterpartie promoted the proposal for a representative. The reason why this has become more relevant is that in the middle of May a proposal was made to change the VAT rate in the passenger transport industry from 12 p.m. up to 23-25 pst. That proposal is in response to the Government Platform's order to offset VAT rates. The centre party also considers it appropriate to focus more on the responsibility of the contracting party and to strengthen the necessary border control. The border inspection shall not be carried out at the expense of outside inspections, where they are wintering, but as a target-conscious limitation of damage and, in the case of automatic measures, such as the representative Lyngedal of Narvik mentioned in his statement. We will therefore support Red's proposal No. 8 and 11 and the SV's proposals in the cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1333	I would like to address a very important tool that has been put in place by several people – I think it was the representative of the place at the latest. This is the decision in Stortinget in this session – in connection with our Document 8 proposal – that we need to come up with a simpler approach rather than a police case. It's obviously an important tool. I'm glad there are signs that the government is working on it, and I'm going to think that when the majority of people say it, it's being followed up. We'll just have to sit on our shoulders and follow along. It's a very important measure. It says at least that all the inspectors I have been in contact with. They see how things are largely blamed if they are reported to the police. SV will point to the possibility of strict detention in the case of infringements of laws and regulations. It is perhaps the strongest instrument we have in the event of a breach of the current legislation – it may be both cabotage and other legislation – that we can stop the car combinations from moving on before the card might be withdrawn, i.e. before any due fees and past debts have been paid, and in the event of a breach of any emergency situation. I believe there are similar schemes in Germany – at least drivers say so – in Portugal and partly in Sweden. This is essential. Of course, if you don't have that tool, drivers don't have much to fear either. To a large extent, they're moving on. They may proceed with debt to the Norwegian State. That's not how it should be. Even tolls are reported not to be charged. We haven't had any tools to do that. No one in Norway has greater competence in the field of transport crime than outdoor inspectors. They see this – those who work in the State Road Service. We see how paralysed they are in terms of international transport crime, so we need those sanctions. That is why SV, as mentioned in the setting, wants the state road authority's outreach control to be redefined as a kind of transport police, somewhat in line with a pattern such as 'autobahnpolizei' in Germany. Finally, I would like to say that we are in favour of proposal No. 2-6, but cannot be included in proposal No. 1, because I think that's out of our reach.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1344	I think there have been very many good posts in the hall in this matter. It shows that we are all impatient after clearing up these problems from Norwegian roads. It is also good to be impatient after implementing measures to contribute to this, but at the same time, the means put in place by the government must be given the opportunity to work. Some people may have been a little more impatient, in the form of signals that the government is not doing anything. But you can rightly say that is wrong, because more stringent measures have now been put in place to tighten up the equipment that the cars have, by stopping the vehicle and actually using a wheel lock if they do not comply with Norwegian rules. It has also systematically worked towards the EU to improve the skills of foreign drivers to travel on Norwegian roads. This will take place in 2020. So it's not that nothing has been done. Very many of those who have been impatient represent parties that have been sitting for a long time, long in government in Norway. This is, as I said in a previous article, not a new issue. It's not a new phenomenon, it's been like this for many, many years in North Norway. Then the problem of sanctions against the transport buyer has been raised. Yes, it is that very many of those who buy transport within the fishing industry are actually the ones who have bought the cargo. The cargo is sold in the warehouse to e.g. the fish breeder, so that it might as well be a non-resident carrier who has purchased the service, and it is problematic to act against these transport buyers. But the undersigned fully agree; of course, more stringent measures are needed to ensure that transport buyers are also penalised. Many salmon farms along the coast have long been involved in a system where they actually see that the vehicles are in good condition, but it is well that they do not have complete competence to intervene at the same level as the State Road Service can. It is good that it is an impatience, but I think we should give the government the opportunity to make the measures that have been put in place work, and those measures are all of such a nature that they cover up the proposals that lie in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1355	The council today received a message from the representative Myrli, and without my promise that it would be a habit, I can say that I agree with Myrli's boast. But that's not all we agree on, it also said Myrli, and solidarity has proved to be quite effective in the workplace, if it is followed up by the authorities. Therefore, in this case there is a proposal that the person who owns the goods in the truck or on the combination of vehicles should have financial, legal and insurance co-responsibility for the contracting entity. This doesn't much like the Council of State or the Department. Instead of going into the proposal with a positive attitude, it is problematic. The following introductory phrase is added in the comments from the Ministry: ‘A general objective co-responsibility of the contracting entity may create challenges.’ This gives an indication of what follows from the rest of the comment, where the consequences and challenges of the seller are very problematic. The fact that there are very many families facing accidents, or that there are major challenges for drivers, does not give one thought to the rest of the comment on this proposal. Such joint and several liability would result in the contracting entity imposing the requirements for the carriage of goods, either out of the country or into the country, under conditions and conditions which ensure the best possible operation of both drivers, road users and goods. That there are many aspects that are not under the control of the contracting entity, no one can refuse. However, the purpose of the proposal is to ensure that the contracting entity gives a signal that a breach of rules and bad material is not correct. The fact that the public service institution ensures pay and employment through joint and several liability is good, but it should not mean that the proprietor of the goods is not also given any greater responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1369	Earlier in the debate, we referred to the Committee's very interesting and food-efficient visit to Svinesund a few weeks ago, where we visited inspectors from both the State Road Administration and customs. We got clear feedback during that visit. One of the things that was addressed was how difficult it is for the various agencies to exchange information, for example. the customs services, the State Road Administration and the Labour Inspectorate. It was even taken up by customs people that they have major problems using their own information further, because the data has to be deleted very quickly. Every vehicle that crosses the border, or at least many of them – I’m not going to go into the technical – has very good control over the Customs Department, but that information has to be deleted so quickly that very often they don’t use that information further. It is clear that we must have strong rules to protect privacy, of course, but the vehicle – trucks and cars used in commercial transport – must be able to register to a greater extent and that information must be used by the various levels between themselves. Then I would say that those who are stopped and do not have order in papers and order in rules, must get a driving ban on the spot. The Committee has been visiting Germany and Switzerland, the previous period the Committee was also in Austria, and there they are bone-hard. If you do not have the papers in order, if you have not paid the fees, there is something that is not correct, yes, then you are given a driving ban on the place, there and then, until you get settled, and until you have everything in order with papers and technical things. That's the way we have to do it in Norway. It is amazing that we have come into a situation where Germany has more stringent winter tyre requirements on trucks than the winter country Norway has. There's been a lot of work on the mandatory toll bar. It took time, it finally came. But there is no requirement for it to be paid up on the piece, or for the piece to be connected to the credit card. We get a lot of feedback that they have a chip, because that is a requirement, but they do not pay the toll, which means that it is highly distortive to Norwegian carriers. So it does very well, but we have to get tougher. It goes a little bit too small, and we're a little bit too kind. We have to get a little bit tougher. If the President permits this, I will make an explanation of vote on behalf of the Workers' Party: in Case No. 7 we shall vote in favour of the proposal No. 2-6, from the Centre Party, and proposal No. 11, from Red, and on case No. We shall vote in favour of the No 8 proposals. 3 and 4, from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1385	The representative Arne Nävra has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1390	I have been out and out of the hall, but I do not remember that so many people have pointed to the problem that concerns the vehicle under 3.5 tonnes. There is, of course, a question that has been addressed by many in the Norwegian transport sector, in particular that cross-border traffic of 3.5 tonnes and below goes slightly below the radar. If we look at Swinesund, to use that example again, there's a lot of cars there with this chapel, so they're within the bounds. This does not apply to the legislation applicable to cars exceeding 3,5 tonnes in the case of cabotage or other cabotage. I see that the Council of State in its letter to the Committee responds – and refers to the answer he gave me to a question – that Europe is working on it. It seems that the Council of State is waiting for Europe. Can the Council of State answer whether he has something concrete going on now?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1399	After all, when one gets a message from two Labour Party representatives the same day in the same debate, it might remind you of collective failure. Nevertheless, I need to comment on some of the things that have been discussed by several representatives. To the representative Langholm Hansen: I should, honestly, wish that some of these problems had easier answers than they do. But it is easy to say that we have liability and joint responsibility and one with the other, but if it is simply pallets from 30 different operators on the same truck – who do we really hold responsible? If the pallet was already checked when it was picked up at the fish destination, but was later recharged to an actor you have never seen, who is responsible? That is the challenge in this market. That would be very good, even for the government, if such practical problems had simple political answers. They do not have it, so I have also allowed myself to do good for it in the reply to Stortinget, so that the Stortinget is in position to make informed choices about the way forward. To the representative Sverre Myrli, who is inside e.g. The need for a ban and strong responses to it: I send as late as this winter clear clues to the state road service that all the space for action – within the laws given by Stortinget, the regulations that regulate further – will be used to keep running gear if one has broken the rules. So in other words, all the action spaces that the Storting has given to uphold such sanctions are the impositions and leads from me to the etats to use. So I agree with the representative Sverre Myrli that we still have a little bit to go on when it comes to tyre equipment. But when one says it goes a little too small: when the Workers' Party last crashed, there was no requirement for winter tyres at all. A large, structural grip has been carried out, which is still under work, and I think I will be very careful to say that I appreciate the fact that the Labour Party has got an eye out for this. It's been a lot to clean up, we're on the right track, and we're a few about many of these measures. Some things go quickly to get in place, winter tyres will hopefully be in place before the next winter; other things are unfortunately more compound. However, in sum, the government will continue to strengthen the work on road safety and the requirements for equipment for running vehicles moving on Norwegian winter roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1410	The representative Sverre Myrli has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1415	The eyes of the Labour Party have probably been open for a long time, because the fight against social dumping is one of the most important areas in which we work. And in our time of government – now it is beginning to be a long time ago – action plan was launched according to the action plan against social dumping, but this is an area where we will never be finished in policy, because there are new challenges. A close couple of holes, and then new ones emerge. We have to remember that there are huge, international forces behind – and there is a lot of money behind – exploiting gaps in the legislation, finding new ways. So the fight against social dumping is never over. That is why we still have to work on this and continue to be offensive and promote new measures. And for everything to be right: I forgot to say that we also support SV's proposal No. 7 in Case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1422	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 7 and 8.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1438	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1447	Let me first of all thank the Committee for its cooperation in this matter. The representative proposal takes into account the need for a state maintenance programme for county roads. In the examination of the case, it appears that the Senterpartiet promoted a similar proposal on 30 January 2018, and that the Stortinget, on the basis of a proposal from the majority parties, took a decision in the Chamber concerning the roll-over of the national transport plan, in which the Stortinget advised the Government to seek additional funding from the State in accordance with the given criteria. Secondly, there was another proposal where, in the context of the roll-out of the national transport plan, the Stortinget asked the government to identify the routes of the county roads and highways that are the main export routes and to assess how important export routes could be better equipped to meet the needs of industry. We have noticed that this has been taken into account in the Council's order for the future in the context of the roll-out of the national transport plan. It also puts an end to the Committee's agreement. For the majority and the Advance Party, it is important to point out that the appropriations for county roads have tripled under the Solberg Government. We agree that there is a great deal of aftermath on part of the county road network, but I have also noticed that there are great variations in who govern the county municipalities, and how the counties prioritize the means they get, and that they may not be as high as priorities. It is also encouraging to recall that on 1 January 2010, the Centre Party, with the Minister for Transport, left 17 000 km of road to the county councils, without the money remaining. In the time before it, the then government, with the Central Party at its head, was criticised for the collapse of the national road network. Now I notice that it's in part of the same county councils where the Center Party is running, you're asking for something for the county roads. This has been understood by the government parties and seen is a great need. For this reason, there is also a high degree of inclusion and involvement in the national transport plan to be roll-over. Governments and governments now include the county councils and listen to them before you come up with a plan, simply because you want to include and involve early in the process, so that the county councils with the municipalities and the business community can say their own and prioritize them as they please. That is why we welcome a new national transport plan and the work that awaits us to improve the road network of county municipalities, as the county municipalities themselves wish.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1462	Then we're back to the discussion about our highways, and the Progress Party continues to talk about how much they've given to these roads -- without taking over that decay increases by 3 billion. kr every year. We have an increasing burden on our road network in terms of increasingly heavy vehicles and increasing traffic. Our roads are not built for this, and foundations are slipping out. Then we have a tunnel directive that is not fully financed, we have more floods and tougher winters, and finally the county council has got more tasks that are not fully financed either. And not least, we have the increasing cost growth in road construction. 47 pst. our road network consists of county roads. Our companies are mainly located by a county road, and the risk of traffic damage has now increased to 62 pst. larger on a country road than on a national road. The Association of Machinery Manufacturers has assessed the socio-economic benefits of reducing the road surface maintenance run and road foundations on the county roads. In summary, the report shows that the delay is increasing, as I mentioned, by nearly 3 billion. kr annually. There is no consistency between the administrative room and the responsibility they have. We can gain significant profits by reducing the maintenance run on the county roads. According to the analysis, increasing maintenance efforts on road surfaces and road foundations will provide significant socio-economic net benefits. The industry and transport industries are desperate. The total maintenance run on the county road network is now approaching 70 to 90 billion. kr. It's this way there'll be a and b paths, where the district loses. The opposition also promoted last year, through the Central Party, a proposal in the Stortinget to introduce a State maintenance programme for the county roads. Unfortunately, this was voted down. However, it was at least decided unanimously to consider a reward scheme — but unfortunately not before the NTP will be rolled in 2021. It'll be too long to wait. Meanwhile, we have to drive on hole roads. The municipal bill adds to a decline in the economy of the county, and an unfunded regional reform re-prioritises the county roads by this government. I'm addressing proposal No. 1, from the minority.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1479	The representative Kirsti Leirtrø has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1484	It is important to develop infrastructure in the country. The county road network is about 47 pst. of the total public road network in Norway measured in kilometres, and the county roads connect districts and municipalities and counties to passenger and freight traffic benefiting all residents. Today’s government has strengthened its efforts on the roads by significantly increasing the number of permits. It is important for business and for value creation, and it is important for citizens in their everyday lives. We see that investment also reduces negative environmental impacts, and we see a positive trend with further decline in serious road accidents. The current NTP has a historical focus on transportation and has a frame of 1069 billion. kr. The government has also strengthened the permissions of the county councils, both in the form of increased frame rate and ear-marked means of racial and anti-slip protection. The management reform carried out with the Central Party in government in 2010 led to the transfer of responsibility for governance and control with 17 000 km of highway and 78 ferries from the state to the county municipalities. These were road sections with a great need for maintenance, and the reform was carried out without giving the county councils sufficient privileges. Today's government with the Progress Party, the Right, the Left and the Christian People's Party have tried to remedy this. In the current NTP, it is set by 15.6 billion. kr for maintenance and renewal of the county road network. We will take seriously the clear feedback from the county councils on the situation of road maintenance, tunnels and anti-slip protection. However, the right will stress that the county councils are responsible for prioritising road maintenance in their budgets. An important principle is framework financing, and it should be the main model for financing the municipal sector. There is room for locally customised solutions. A government maintenance programme could look like a state over-management of budgetary responsibilities and priorities of the regional populace. Right, the Progress Party and the Left promote – and got a majority for it – a document 8 proposal last year to consider introducing a reward scheme where the county may seek co-financing from the state according to the given criterion, to further identify which sections of the county roads and national roads are the most important export routes, and in this context assess how important export routes can be better equipped to meet their business needs. This work is being carried out by the Department. Right is very pleased with that, and we look forward to the recommendation from the Council of State in connection with the rolling of the National Transport Plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1499	Several representatives refer to 2010 and what the Centre Party did in connection with the county roads. It's been the same long since the number of kilograms that went on the representant Fasterøne. It must be possible to do something in the meantime that can solve the problem. The county councils are responsible for approx. 44 000 km of road. The counties have proved to be good road owners after taking over large parts of the state road network. We should be happy about that, because I think it's right that the states are responsible. It's also right to give them a good frame. As has been said before, analyses from several agencies show that the main use is to spend more money on the new county roads than the state did before the 2010 administrative reform. They've prioritised this, and they've given priority to maintenance. I know that there are several states that have used their funds to get them in place, something that is acutely important on some road sections. The centre batch has previously proposed a stepping-up plan to reduce the maintenance run on the county roads. Over the year, the county roads have been so heavily eroded that it is difficult to see that they can be sufficiently remedied without a major State contribution. A maintenance programme could outline a maintenance escalation plan, with proposals for the financing model and organisation to increase maintenance and backtracking on the county road network. We in the Center Party believe in principle that there should be framework transfers to the states, but an emergency aid to get this in place thinks we had been needed right now, and maybe you see this in line with how you look at building motorways. Here you should be able to go in and prioritize and put in place what is most important. With the financial arrangements for the county councils in the municipal pro-position, the action space for the county councils is reduced and likely to increase considerably. It is also important to consider such a state package, that part of the county roads – of course in the same way as the national roads – are transit routes, which are completely dependent on, among other things. when transporting goods from one part of the country to another and which are to a large extent the users of this county road network. I think that by going together and looking at a common scheme to get a lift, you could have done it quickly, and you could have prioritised the right things.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1512	Maintenance is not always as popular as priority. This applies at all levels. The county roads and thus the county municipalities have the same challenge. It is much more pleasant to invest in new measures, and then the balancing item is maintained. That is why the majority had a note and a proposal, which was adopted, that we should put in place a reward scheme when we are going to roll the new transport plan. It simply goes a little bit like what we did with public transport, which is also the responsibility of the county municipalities: if they were able to increase the amount of passengers, bring down the emissions and transport even more throughout the district, they would be rewarded. This should also be done in the case of county roads, because they are in many places in poor condition. But then we have to demand that priority be given to accessibility and that the number of road accidents actually be reduced by the measures that are being taken. One of the measures for which the Left has been very concerned is the final implementation of the regional reform of the county councils in terms of the county roads. So we're moving 1,850 people down from the state road to the county councils, closer to the decision making, closer to the priorities, which hopefully makes even better use of the funds that are there at all times. This is a priority for making even better use of the funds for what they should be used for: achieving good results. We think that is a good measure. As I mentioned earlier, when we are rolling out our national transport plan, we need to see if we can get even better measures, so that we can reduce the maintenance run.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1519	This matter has a little connection with some of what we discussed yesterday. It may be predictable, and if any of the representatives are waiting for me to say something specifically, I will not disappoint these representatives. For this, it is largely a matter of prioritising funds on the state budget – we do not miss it. Several of us have been visiting e.g. this action group called Fjordvegen Route 13 – nice people, many of them are engaged as politicians, others are employed as officials in the municipalities, all of whom are interested in getting them fixed up. 13, Fjordvegen, just to take one example. And there are many fjords – there are many narrow roads, there are many dangerous roads. They're narrow, without yellow middle stripe, they're rascal, and it's right as the representative of Fasterøne said, it's over 40 billion. kr – or maybe he didn't mention it, he mentioned the length of them, but it was at least here talking about maybe 50 to 60 billion. kr i lag on the county roads for maintenance. In terms of racial protection, we are also far behind. There is a separate racial protection group in Norway that is concerned, because we are in arrears there as well. There are many settlements that are being detached, isolated, because of race. It provides challenges for preparedness – ambulances, etc. – People don’t get to do business, and you don’t get to and from school, etc. That's when I have to say that I feel very alone in this room, perhaps with one single exception of one representative, maybe two, who doesn't prioritize these roads as billions of billions of billions go to -- the great projects of achievement that you have to carry through on death and life. Then there is something that is suffering, and then I feel: I really have something at the meetings about rv. 13 to do? Yes, I'm saying what I mean, and I'm saying, "Dear you here in the hall, talk to your staging representatives, talk to your colleagues up the system." They're sitting there prioritizing differently. And the worst thing is that some of those who are at that meeting are also voting for the ferry-free E39 anymore, and then they don't get any money in there anymore. It's on the verge of dishonesty if you get there and talk in party speeches about getting better race protection and wider roads when you prioritize things like you do. I'm going to promise that if we had prioritised something different, we would have got an incredibly much more way, safer way and safe ways of using the money. Then I'll give in. Then this lonely swallow will be allowed to go down again and sit down.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1534	Unlike the representative, Nävra, I'm going to try to stick to what's going on here, simply maintaining state roads, and not what we should have done with state highway projects. We can probably come back to that in another debate. So the starting point of this proposal for a representative is a desire to use more resources to refurbish the roads, and I understand them. I'm surprised, though, that it comes from the Center Party, which says that they basically want free transfers to the municipality and county council, but when the principle doesn't fit, they just replace the principle and create their own ear-taged arrangements for it. On the part of the government, we have devoted all of our work to the national transport plan. The Storing Committee is well-informed about this. This means that, sooner than we have ever done before, the county councils are involved in the work of the National Transport Plan. The first thing we asked when we started that cooperation was not: what do they want money for? We asked what the biggest challenges in the transport system are, simply because the NTP process we're doing is about making tough priorities, both for the state and for the county communities. If we're honest with ourselves, it's also true in the county councils that once they've prioritised in the national transport plan, they've very much concentrated on big projects first, and once one's got it, one has a big project, and if there's been some money left over, one said one could get it to operate and maintain. This government is therefore in the process of implementing a change of pace in its transport policy. The maintenance allowance also increases year by year on the national road network for three decades before this government joined. Every year since that time, 2013, the maintenance run on state roads has fallen, because we have prioritised it over an additional project in new and no. We have given priority to re-establishing the maintenance system on Norwegian tunnels, we have given priority to re-establishing the road standard, we have prioritised laying new asphalt instead of building a new project to cut the strings on. There are tough priorities, priorities that also state politicians must be able to deal with the framework they have been given, which has also been growing, for example. when part of the county has been growing in the last years, it has been explained by a wish to bet on the county road network. We will return to all of these in common when we make the priorities of the national transport plan, in line with what the Storting concluded with the last time a similar proposal was considered. I'm quite sure we're going to do it in a good way, because we've now added up to a greater involvement of the regionally elected level.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1547	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1553	A principle is probably not absolute, and I think it applies to quite a few, even a government council, perhaps both privately and at work. The basic document of the NTP for 2018-2029 states: ‘There is a significant maturity on the county road network. The cost of repairing critical infrastructure such as tunnels, bridges and ferries is such that transport modes consider that a separate programme for renewal of county roads should be considered.’;» This was not a priority in the previous NTP. I have heard what the Council of State has said, but I still ask the specific question: Can such a programme be relevant when entering the decision-making circle of the next crossroads – in some way?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1565	Unfortunately, it is too early to conclude, also because the state now does the same thing as the county municipalities. We're looking at what kind of fundamental challenges we have when it comes to infrastructure, and what's the best way to solve them. I think that the policy has ended up in a somewhat unnecessary situation when one is going to shoot at each other across the board. Those who travel on our roads are not so concerned about whether it is the state or the county councils that own the road, they are concerned that the standard is good. Therefore, we have also used massive resources both to invest and to operate and maintain the roads owned by the State. But we are also quite right when it comes to the escalation that we notice in the National Transport Plan, simply a stepping up to the county councils in order to make them better equipped to take responsibility on county roads. This means that we have done a lot of what we notice in the national transport plan and will continue to grow for years to come. But it's all about the seventh and last thing about the county councils being able to take priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1572	One of the reasons I'm asking is that we're in a pretty big process of conversion now, both in the state road system, and also in that part of the tasks and not least the resources are transferred to the county municipalities. That's why I ask again in many ways, or maybe have a request to the Council of State: Could it not have been in place in this process perhaps to address this issue, which is what most people are concerned about, including the county municipalities themselves?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1579	The answer to that may well be yes. And we're going to do the same thing when we're going to do the same thing when we're going to do the same thing. Now, in addition to transferring up to 1,850 annual works from the state to the county councils, a new regionally elected level, which Gunnes' representative was in, moves closer where the decisions are taken, where the priorities are made. And then we've also looked at what kind of space these state politicians are now going to have to set their standard choices, what kind of freedom of priority they're going to have in several things. It's a work we're looking at, just to be more able to find good solutions locally. So the work done on the transfer of it is therefore a large-scale decentralization in the public sector, the move of decision-making nearer regional politicians. It may also provide better solutions for the county road network in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1586	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1593	I understand very well the proposal of the Center Party, and I think most in this Chamber agree that there is a need for a lift to improve poor and neglected county roads. But it's a big one: I think the proposal from the Central Party is a bit rude, a bit double bold, because it's the Center Party which, after all, is responsible for our poor state roads. It was the Center Party, with good help from the Workers' Party – or perhaps the opposite – that gave the counties all these bad roads when they were in government. If the Central Party, and also partly the Workers' Party, have I understood during the debate today, are so concerned about the standard of state roads and the poor maintenance, why did it not follow with more money when they put in government and gave all these roads to the counties? In addition, the Center Party controls many counties. In Hedmark, I myself have experience from 16 years in the county – four years together with the Center Party in opposition. It was otherwise very pleasant and very good, I hope it can repeat itself. But when the Center Party went over to the Workers' Party and has been there and run continuously for 16 years, they didn't give priority to county roads. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party in opposition have always given priority to the highways, but unfortunately it has not done so. The centre party had the opportunity to take a lift for the county roads when they were in government. They still have the opportunity to follow the highways, because they run in very many counties. But they do nothing and expect today's government to take responsibility they themselves have not taken. I think that's a little bit rude. It is important to remember that the county roads are the county's responsibility and the national roads are the responsibility of the state. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have taken good care of our roads, we have stopped the aftermath that was when we took over the government power after the red-green ones. And we haven't just stopped it, but we've also started taking it back and reducing it. When the Center Party was in government, they neglected both the county roads and the highways. As I said, the county roads are the county's responsibility, but today's government has still taken responsibility for helping the counties. When Stoltenberg presented his last budget, for 2014, it was set by 0.5 billion. kr to county roads. Now we're going to spend about 1.5 billion. kr. In addition, we reintroduced the interest compensation scheme, which was removed by Stoltenberg, and we spent 2-3 billion. NOK for a few years before we also stopped using the scheme. We're going to continue to support the county roads and work to improve them. We'll get back to that when we roll NTP.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1606	Today’s government adorns itself with building roads in Norway at record speed. Last night, when we dealt with three toll propositions, we heard a self-satisfied position. That's right, a lot of great national road projects are being developed, and the big money goes there. I'm sorry, it's a cut in joy. The county roads may not participate in this roadside party and the maintenance seat run is significant and growing year by year. Only the counties Troms and Finnmark have a stipulated lag of approx. 9 B.C.E. kr. Bad highways mean delays and longer transport for those who depend on these roads. Fishing farms and farms are almost always far away from a national road. Many companies rely on or want to use modular train, but the road standard is not in such a state in many places that this is possible. The result is that quality products hop on poor highways, with quality degradation as a possible result, before the vehicle combination enters our new and good highways. Who is responsible for the aftermath on the county roads? The answer is simple, it's the responsibility of the state. The State has transferred these routes to the county councils, and it has not provided sufficient funds, either when they were transferred or now. That's why it's a shared responsibility for all of us. You cannot waive responsibility, as the representative Johnsen does, by saying that the county council is responsible for county roads. Yes, but the state has something that the county does not have: access to the state fund. It is the state and the government that distribute the funds and decide how much money comes to the county municipality, and it is too little. I can't imagine any of you being proud of what you've done about the county roads and the aftermath. It's too bad. We know that, it's too bad. It's the highways that have been given priority. These are the performance projects that have been given priority. But we have to do something with the county roads as well. When the regional reform takes place, the county councils are also responsible for, among other things, the county roads. ports, air routes, FOT routes and non-state aerodromes. The major concern in this is that the recently adopted municipal bill does not follow up with sufficient appropriations, so that the county councils will be able to carry out their tasks. There is a need for a lift to maintain the county roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1627	The government parties seem likely to focus a lot on the county roads. The reason is that we know that the county road network is more than three times as large as the national road network, but this is not reflected in the appropriations, the experience being that the county municipalities are good road owners and use more on the new county roads than the state did. We also know that much of the value creation is happening along a country road, and we know that increased maintenance will provide a socio-economic net benefit of between 8.3 and 11.9 billion. kr, according to Oslo Economics. The release of the maintenance kit by five years will reduce this social benefit by 2.1 billion. kr. If we are to be able to maintain the value creation in the country, we must have a completely good road network. The centre party has very strong support among a number of actors for the urgency of maintaining the county roads. This proposal is not a matter of state override. We've always been very clear that it's the county councils that have to give priority. Such a reward scheme, which was adopted last time, could actually be a greater degree of overmanagement, because then it is the state that premises what it takes to participate in an economic action package. But there are things that have changed. One of the things that's changed is that, for example, The county council, which has more than 4,000 kilometres of county road, received 284 million. kr less to go with annual after the government changed the distribution keys, as some of the first thing they did when they came to power. Now this amount is increased to a decrease of 460 million. kr annually. Nevertheless, the county prioritizes to take up the maintenance seat suspension and will use 1 billion. I'll spend the next four years on that. But if we get into a gap between state and state on this, it'll be socio-economically profitable.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1638	From the representative, Johnsen, it doesn't look like the fright is going to end: we owe everyone else without even listening to what the issue is about. The development of road standards on county roads has changed dramatically over the past six years, and the Progress Party is holding the money bag and the Minister for Transport and does not take any responsibility at all. It's removed 1.3 billion. kr in regional development funds. Maintenance is not a balancing item in the county budget. The county municipalities have been good road owners, they have given priority to the main economic pathways, and we have had a lot of 'tolls' from dubious counties who see that in order to maintain and develop their roads they have to resort to to tolls — for a large proportion of the tolls are also on the county roads. What is gratifying is that the Council of State in its contribution actually understands the issues of county councils, that through the dialogue on NTP work, he sees that one has gained greater understanding, and that we now perhaps in that work are able to solve the future challenges of our roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1647	The proposal for a State maintenance programme of the county roads is a failure statement for the batches behind the minority proposal. The same batches wish to maintain the county as the administrative level. The same batches were placed in this room and decided to transfer several roads to the county in 2010. The same parties are in the position of many counties and have been in the position for eight to twelve years, as in the Nordic region. The state of Northern Ireland is one of the most important counties in the county, and the largest county in the country — approximately 9 B.C.E. kr. This is because over decades it has been down-prioritized by those who have run the county. It's not like this has changed dramatically in the last six years. Eight years ago, this was followed up in the Nordic region about. 7 B.C.E. kr. It hasn't changed dramatically, but the seven billion didn't come by themselves. When Nordland got the new county roads in 2010, they got 250 million. kr per year, and they would get that for four years. Then the blue-blue government came in and stretched that line for an additional year, with an additional 250 million. kr. But we also see that the county council is not able to deal with the situation they themselves have been in. Therefore, it is our position that when you sit down with the NTP, you also have to look at food export routes, which are important to get ready, so that the businesses that are along the way, which in North Norway are usually fishing businesses, have the opportunity to get their goods out. We believe this because we see that the county council is unable to reach a goal in terms of taking this back. In Northern Ireland, where I myself have been a state politician for nearly 16 years, the Progress Party has been the driver for spending money differently. Six years ago, we put forward a proposal to cut in the administration because the KOSTRAs showed that Nordland spent 200 million. kr more to manage the county than comparable in the same group. Then it's very strange that we were voted down, because in the autumn, with the last budget and financial plan adopted in Northern Ireland, the County Council, of which the Central Party is also a part, concluded, and said, "Unfortunately, the Progress Party was right." The billion to be spent on the county roads in Northern Ireland is coming to a great extent – according to what the county council leader in Northernland said to me on Friday – of the cuts made in the administration, which the Progress Party has been talking about for several years. It is possible to prioritize differently in the counties, but then we have to enable them to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1661	SV has been supporting the proposal that the Central Party has made, and there has been a topic that has been discussed for years by a lot of people in the industry, those who work in transport. It is good that it was taken up. At least we'll have an overall overview, there'll be a debate around the priorities, and it's obvious that the county councils' positions will arrive at an early stage. A great deal boils down to what the Storting decides on budgets, not least the framework for municipalities and counties. That's what we're talking about. That's the real thing. I fully agree with all those who have been up here – most of them at least – in describing how things are with the backwardness of the states. One after the other comes up here and gives a kind of a wretched description of the conditions. The county roads are bad in many districts, and county municipalities have a huge responsibility for a huge maintenance network. I can't see it any other way than that it's the budgets that decide what we're going to do in the counties, that's to a large extent the frame of states and municipalities. Then the question is, if you're going to go into the sea: what is it that each of us representatives grant to the framework of municipalities and counties? That's to a large extent what it boils down to. We have some ear-marked possibilities, for example. in the transport sector, but mostly it is the municipal council. It's probably a well-known case that SV is one of the parties that grants the most to the municipalities – maybe the party that grants the most – I think it's 4.6 billion. kr for the current year. Much of it goes to well-being, of course, because it is the municipalities that stand for much of the welfare services, but also for the county roads. We also have other possibilities, as I said, with earmarks in transport. We have records on walking and cycling paths, we have entries on racial protection, for example, and it's also within the interest compensation scheme. We've added about 500 million. So it's going to be $30 billion. It's a little bit on the road, and we can stand a little bit straight when we refer to our alternative budget. And that's what we should have talked about here -- what we're contributing, each of the parties -- if we had our backs straight. We can describe the misery, we can say it in party speeches -- it's not exactly direct party speeches, we can call it gruesome -- and the description is correct, but the means we give the states are small. Because that's money. Then we must give priority. I say it again: priority -- that's what it says.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1674	It is a little special to hear the representatives of the Workers' Party here claim that we waive the responsibility. No, absolutely not, we do not waive any liability. We take responsibility, and it gets a little too stupid to be accused of not taking it. I can repeat what I said instead. We have tripled the appropriations for county roads since we got into government, in order to help correct the imbalance that unfortunately happened after the Workers' Party and the Centre gave up poorly maintained roads. In addition, we reintroduced an interest-rate compensation scheme – 2 billion. kr the first year, in 2014, and then it was increased to 3 billion. kr. We had that plan a few years before it was taken out. But anyway, there was an arrangement that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV in their budget had proposed to withdraw. So it's a little special to get criticism from the Workers' Party when we actually take responsibility and help the counties take responsibility for the bad roads that the Workers' Party and the Centre gave them. We will continue to take responsibility. Several of our colleagues on the Stortinget and also the Minister have said that. We'll get back to that in the NTP. That's especially the export routes we're concerned with. There are many important export routes around the country that contribute to job creation, growth and value creation, and then it is also understandable that they need a better infrastructure to transport their goods. As for the states, I don't feel sorry for the states. I certainly don't feel sorry for the counties. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have, for example, provided the counties with a unique opportunity for large savings, high efficiency potentials, for which the counties do not wish to avail. In the Red-Green Inland, as I know best, they have enormous opportunities to get synergies, efficiency and savings, but they don't want that. No one should lose their job as a result of the merger of two counties. It is rather the opposite – they go the other way – the employees get paid so that they can get a little longer way to the job. It's not a single company that I know of, at least not by private companies, that had the opportunity to grant such benefits to employees and, for example, to the employees. pay them to go to work when you come together for synergies, efficiency and rationalisation. Business can't afford it. The counties can afford it, but obviously they can't afford to take care of their own country roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1687	When the government and the majority, perhaps especially the representative Johnsen, talk about "we" and "they" in relation to state, state and municipality, I get a little tired. But I should be really worried; maybe that's what I am. When you sunbathe in the shine of what you can do to cut strings for yourself, it's a dangerous exercise. And sloppy ignorance is a dangerous trait. When the representative Gunnes says that the counties will get money if they do as we say – that was what he said; I can well understand that there are some common goals – I think you're bomming a little again. If you travel around the counties on Norwegian highways, I don't think you need a whole bunch of creative measures to understand that something has to be done. I think you have to have a common understanding that this is something that needs to be done in cooperation with both state and state, and I think we also have to bring the municipalities – because in these days there is also a settlement where you transfer county roads to the municipalities and vice versa – in order for this to be practical in day-to-day management. I'm convinced that those who sit out there even know what's best. I am absolutely convinced of that. This is about, of course, agreeing on the resources. I fully understand that there may be disagreement about them, because that is what the budget is all about, and that is what negotiations are all about. However, to describe that those who run the counties do not know and understand and do not understand their own best, I do not think they fit into a debate when we are talking about trying to upgrade a county road network that I am convinced that especially those who are happy to drive a car have discovered – if they do not have too good a car – that something should be done about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1696	I just want to focus on the term ‘important nutritional pathways’. When this concept is used about the county roads, I think it is important that we do not sever this very much. The reason why I'm taking it up is that my experience last year, the Progress Party, was involved in setting criteria for which roads should be qualified to be financed by or taken back to the state, used the criteria to measure what were important nutritional pathways, criteria to measure which roads were qualified to be financed by the state. In Northern Ireland, it was only a relatively small piece of road qualified for retreat, and it was actually the very latest and finest highway in the whole county, the one in the Tower Tunnel and the area around it. I see that there is a willingness to get things done to improve the situation on the county roads. We just have to make sure that it's the county councils that have the prioritisation authority in this split layer, which I think we're going to be able to do. It's just important to remember that the longer it takes to get the split layer in place, the less is the social benefit, so it's urgent.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1703	The representative Bengt Fasterale says that my post was that we were going to decide which priorities to have. No, that's not what I tried to say at least – it was actually that we're going to use the same system that public transport has been through. It's been a successful project, but there were some criteria. You had to give something back, and there was an increase in the number of passengers and less use of cars and CO 2 emissions. As far as the county roads are concerned, it is quite clear that it is reasonable to talk about accessibility and to reduce the number of road accidents. It must be expected as a primary task for a weigher that that is what the priorities are. Then, of course, you have to give priority to the ways in which you feel that you are getting the best out of it in relation to the expectations you have for achieving your goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1713	Just a little comment from my side, in conclusion, in the debate: I think, in principle, I all understand that there is a significant maintenance run on the county road network. Then there is a division of responsibilities in terms of level of government, between state, state and municipality. This means that the county councils are responsible for prioritizing within their roads and within their frameworks. Of course, it is not that we discharge our financial responsibility for this. No, this is the Stortinget that grants money each year, a framework grant to the county councils and other direct schemes relating to the county road network. It is therefore in our view a better model to set up a reward scheme to start resuming the maintenance set-up, but then a reward scheme based on the fact that county councils themselves sit down and give priority to which roads are most important to take first and last. We have pointed out that at least it must be smart to look at the main regional roads and the main economic pathways in the various counties, in order to stimulate growth and value creation around the whole country. But what the Central Party is asking for is that it is the government that is going to draw up a programme for the county municipalities. That is the very opposite – or to say so in another way: that is what the representative, Mr Fasteröne, really criticises us for, namely, that we override the county municipalities. That's the opposite of what we don't do. We take the county councils seriously. We take local self-government seriously and ask the county councils themselves to give priority both within their frameworks and within such a reward scheme, when it comes, in the context of the national transport plan. It is the proposal of the Centre Party that is an over-control of the county councils in this discussion. Actually, we do not agree so much with this, because if I remember correctly, both the Central Party and the Labour Party voted in a subsidiary way for the proposal that we presented at the time. I hope and believe that today we can work with it in a targeted way, towards the National Transport Plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1724	I would like to thank you for the debate, but have just a few small comments. From the pulpit it is pointed out that this government has spent billions on major road projects. That is quite correct, because there were many serious accidents on our major roads – at least in our major shipping years – and this has had a considerable reduction in the number of accidents, if not enough down, of course. This has been important because it has been the state's roads. It is quite right, as has been pointed out in the debate from some here, that the most serious accidents are now occurring on the county road network. That is quite correct, and therefore the appropriations for county councils have also increased considerably. It is quite possible that it is not enough – I think we agree – but we have to be careful to make a system that makes the state not only grant money and the county councils spend the money on other things. As I said in my previous post, there is a great variation in how county councils prioritize the money they receive. I think it is important to agree, in consultation with the county councils, on which roads should be given priority, and what is important for them. It's actually not going to happen. It is local democracy in practice, which this government takes seriously, where, from the very first moment, the county councils are invited to participate in the NTP work and in the ways to be given priority, and in what kind of criteria it should be – instead of the state’s dictatement after it has been presented. I would like to thank you for the debate. I'm absolutely sure we'll get back to this with the county roads later. I think the hall also agrees that something has to be done with the county road network.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1737	The representative Bengt Fasterale has held the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1742	Then the debate is on the right track again. I would like to thank you for the clarifications that came from the representatives of Gunnes, Orten and Stordalen. It's a common understanding that we have a challenge that we have to do something about. Of course, when we have proposed such a government programme, it will not be implemented in enclosed spaces in government offices. This, of course, is to be done in cooperation with the county councils. But when we've broken a principle, as I said before, it's because we want it to be a lift that can be shortened in time and space, so that you get in place and get into the usual routines gradually.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1747	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1763	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes for each group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that – within the allocated speaking time – up to six rows of replies are given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time should also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1772	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation. It has been so successful to prepare this setting as well. This proposition contains some issues of both road, rail and mail. A cost framework is established for three road projects and two railway projects. It's E39 Betna–Stormyra, rv. 706 Nydalsbrua with connections, intercity Vestfoldbanen, both on the Drammen–Kobbervikdalen and Nykirke–Barkåker as well as repairing several tunnels in Nordland and Troms. In addition, toll collection is authorised for a further three months in the transport package for the Kristiansand region. An overall committee is in agreement with the recommendation. New roads are expected to close the allocated portfolio earlier than foreseen. Experience so far has shown that the company has succeeded in increasing the social benefits of the projects, both by reducing costs and increasing benefits. There is therefore a need to extend the portfolio and the government transfers three new sections to the company. It is E6 Øyer–Otta, E16 Klöfta–Kongswinger and E6 Kvänangsbergellet. Projects shall be carried out within the allocated framework. Information is also provided on the status of the transfer of road administration to county municipalities and proposals for the reorganization of the state road system. It is surprising that the opposition suggests that the organisation of the State Road Service should be presented to the Stortinget for treatment. I would argue that this is something that lies within the government's operating room to decide. There is a need to streamline the State Road Service. The State Road Service has proposed a function model based on divisions. At the same time, the size of the Road Directorate is reduced and a significant number of employees are moved out of Oslo. It is important that a strong environment of competence is maintained throughout the country, not least by what is currently the regional road offices. We're also more concerned about the proposed reduction in the number of traffic stations. In our view, the State Road Service should carry out additional investigations to respond to how to improve the provision of services to citizens and businesses through the use of new technologies, outpatient solutions and, where appropriate, increased cooperation with other public services and private sector entities. I expect the Council of State to take these notes and signals into account before the final conclusion is drawn. Proposals for up-to-date cost estimates for all projects in the national transport plan are also made by the Workers' Party and SV. It is, in our opinion, a work that it is natural to do in the context of the roll-out of the national transport plan. I also think there is some strange criticism from these two parties, as they have voted against virtually all the reforms that can contribute to increasing social benefits and reducing costs. But I'm assuming that we're also given the opportunity to discuss in several other contexts.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1795	So at the very least of this session we get a very small case that has the nice title «Some things about road, rail and mail», and here we have to dispose of the whole 25 billion. kr that we will give our agreement to. In addition, the entire state road system should be reorganised in this case. As far as road projects are concerned, I am very pleased that Betna–Storm is now finally being realized. I also want to mention Nydalsbrua in Trøndelag. Here's what the government's saying: ‘The working party comes with criticism from the government, without itself having a real alternative to funding.’ Obviously, they haven't been there in the hour. The working party had invested 400 million in its alternative NTP. kr early in the period, while the government has it at the very end. In addition, costs have increased, without it seems that the government intends to contribute more. In addition, the Workers’ Party has proposed that the State’s share of large collective projects should be 70 pst., not 50 pst., and that funds would also have helped the environmental package. Only the interest charges for the borrowing charge apply to the drivers in Trondheim 200 million. kr in increased tolls. So this is a great opportunity to bring down the toll percentage, so I wish the government had at least assessed an interest-free loan. That would have considerably reduced the toll. Then I have to get into the regional reform and the state road system. The manner in which this reorganisation has been carried out has resulted in a significant pool of competences and concerns for employees. To start a reorganization with an order to bring down operations by 1.7 billion. kr, in addition to the transfer of 1,800 employees to the counties, is irresponsible. One starts here completely without an impact assessment or questions about what the challenge is, and what tasks to solve. The proposal involves the systematic centralisation and bottling of districts for public jobs. One should, for example: be able to assess whether the county can take on more than one task. We ask the government to come back to Stortinget with a complete case, i.e. a more thorough investigation. And then our suggestions are – no. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV, and no. 2, taken from the Working Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1811	The representative, Kirsti Leirtrø, has drawn up the proposals to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1816	Prop. 110 S for 2018–2019 – ‘some things’, as it is called – can actually seem a little insignificant and boring, but it is absolutely not. Here it's crazy a lot of gossip and a lot of happy things. Perhaps the biggest joy is that we're expanding the portfolio of New Roads. When the company was established, it was responsible for approx. 532 km of European road. Then we added a couple of smaller projects in Trendelag and Inland, so they got a total of 540 km, and now they're at about. 700 km. It might sound a lot, but it's actually not -- it's just about 7 pst. of the total length of the national road in Norway. So we're looking forward to getting filled up with more projects. What they now get, E6 throughout the Gudbrand valley, the Stortinget now finally formally adopts. Then New Roads get total responsibility for the E6 from the Colosseum in Stange and up to Otta in Uppland. To get a coherent whole, it is important to see the whole road section as a whole, because there is a significant parcel of E6 that is important for the whole country. In addition, they get the entire E16 section from Klöfta to Kongsvinger, and not only the two small parcels that have remained and have not been built out – they approx. three miles remaining between Akershus and Hedmark. It's important that they get the whole lot, the whole distance, because then New Roads will see the whole thing in that road section. They also have the opportunity to get 110 km/h all the way, since New Roads are responsible for all the way and that responsibility has not been shared between the State Road Service and New Roads. I see that the Labour Party in its comments questions the rationale behind this, whether it can be socially sensible and sound. Then I would like to remind the Workers' Party that the mandate for New Roads is precisely that they should build socially profitable and sensible. It is a prerequisite for how the company should operate, so there is no need to worry. I also record that the Workers' Party is a little concerned that there may be new planning processes. There's no need to worry about it. You have to save money, we don't have unlimited financial resources – if you're not going to have a crazy tax increase, as the Labour Party might want. By having a new planning process now and looking at the project again, there is talk of saving billions of dollars in the few miles left there. That makes sense, and that's important and correct. According to the previous NTP from the red-greens, that whole stretch had to start by 2023. We're a little late in Akershus, but we're not late in Hedmark, and I'm convinced that New Roads are actually going to be able to get started there faster than what was inside the previous NTP, and get done faster than what was inside the previous NTP. In addition, we'll give the Woman's Mountain to New Roads. It's good that North Norway also gets some projects into New Roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1833	The centre party is involved in the recommendation on this matter, but we have some additional points that I will comment on. First of all, we refer to the construction of the E6 Helgeland South, where the drivers running through Grane pay tolls on a road that is not being built. I also want to refer to the Center Party's alternative budget in the RNB, where we spend money so that the expansion can continue now and the drivers get the way they have paid tolls for. Secondly, I would like to say a few words about regional reform and road administration. It is important that significant conversion costs are taken into account. These costs have been poorly investigated. They should have been known, and they should have been notified well in advance of the 2020 budget. Now, a good intention to transfer tasks to regional level can lead to a poor landing because the reform is underfunded and co-financed at random, as there are wage means per person employed in the State Road Administration who are transferred to county municipalities, which are decisive. This is a random funding. The centre party is also critical of the removal of today’s regional offices by the State Road Agency, established by the Stortinget, and replaces them with a divisional model. We see that the top management and division management move without exception to the big cities or cities around Oslo, which is centralizing in itself. That is why we believe that the proposal that we are in favour of in this matter, in which we ask the government to come back to the Stortinget with a complete case of the future organisation of the state road system, is an important proposal. The centre party is also concerned about the closure of 22 traffic stations. We are concerned that the core should be moved further away from many people on a relatively failing basis. Better solutions need to be found here. We note that representatives of the government parties also see the problem of this centralisation, as long as it comes close enough. For example, the representative of Finstad sees that it is not wise to shut down the traffic station at Leknes when the cost saving is NOK 340 000, while the increased costs for users are almost SEK 1.7 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1846	Well then, there are some happy messages in «Some things» this time, I'll tell the representative Johnsen. Among other things, it is funny to see that Betna–Storm has come in. I expect that very many people can do it almost without saying, as the first line in a hymn, Betna–Stormyra. We've read that many times, and now it looks like this is going to work out. I'm very happy about that. We have also had it inside the SV documents quite many times. I also noticed a couple of railway things that I am enjoying, naturally enough, also in my backyard. One is Nykirke-Barkåker, who goes his way. I notice that the management framework has become almost 1 billion. kr lower, and it is rare to see within railway sums. I don't quite understand how it's happened, but maybe the Council has some information about it. Otherwise, I also notice that the Kobbervik valley, the extension of the Drammen, is in progress. It's also very joyful and very necessary. I have a personal commitment, I was about to say, in a nearby distance, that is, lower parts of the Randsfjord course. There's a special message to the Council of State, maybe, that there's a special stretch in the lower part of the Buskerud called the lower part of the Randsfjord Railway, between Drammen and Hønefoss. The council is well aware that I have been engaged to get one – what to say – faster, cheaper and simpler solution to expand so that we get two trains an hour to Kongsberg. I'm going to hang on to this case here, because it's related to the Kobbervik valley and the extension of the Drammen. We have carried out a separate investigation in Buskerud SV, and the Council of State also knows a little about this. We're probably able to get the price down to 1.5 billion. kr instead of 8,5 billion. kr, which Bane NOR has determined to get two tracks all the way to Kongsberg and the journey time of less than one hour. So we're saying that we're going to take it a little bit on the way, we're going to get two trains per hour with the solution we've given, not exactly less than one hour, but 1.5 billion. kr in relation to SEK 8,5 billion. kr. It's nice to hear pragmatic notes from SV in this way, constructive solutions, I would think, for the Council of State, so I hope he takes it further in the NTP rolling. I will formally extend that investigation on this matter to him afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1857	When SV thinks these are happy projects, it's very happy, to say it like that, because what we're adopting today is very good projects. I'll mention two of them. One is Betna-Vinjeöra-Stormyra. As Arne Nävra says – everyone who has been there remembers the commitment that was to knit the yellow stripe. The residents knitted the yellow stripe to show what they were really looking for. They weren't after a four-field road – no, they were supposed to have a traffic-proof vein on a European road. Very well, and now it is put out in life. So to the other thing I want to mention: Since I represent Trundellag, live in Trondheim and not least was the initiator of it, as the last thing I did as a municipal council before I became a city council representative – that Nydalsbrua had to be built faster than what was in NTP – I find it a bit strange that the representative Kirsti Leirtrø from the Workers' Party is so negative to the project, because this is a fantastic positive project. The city council in Trondheim has almost unanimously adopted it, and the county in Trøndelag has decided to advance this. It's an environmental project that's really swinging over – an environmental road. In Trondheim it is such that approx. 50 pst. of the urban journey is transit traffic. Building this bridge increases traffic from today's old bridge from the ÅDT of 13,000 to 27,000. It leads to the bypass around the city. It's a fantastic project that should be cheered on and flagged instead of talking down when you both locally, municipally and now in Stortinget decide on the project and it really has value for all parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1868	Even though I think we had lit a diploma for the engendering title of this proposition, the content of it is far more important than the fantastic title «Some things about road, rail and mail», simply the financing arrangement for important infrastructure projects over the coming years. I'm not going to go into each of them, just summarily refer to them. At the same time, I need to say one thing that not very many people have spent a lot of time so far. What is happening today when a new road project is transferred to the New Road portfolio is that in the fourth year after the company was created, we are already able to start financing new road projects for the savings they have had in the past. It's already happening before a lot of them are complete. It shows that it is beneficial to reform things in the road sector. It's useful to reform things in the transport sector, because we see that we get more infrastructure for the money. It's also the main element of today's assessments. Besides that, I understand that people are uncertain about how things work out in the state road system. At the same time, we must bear in mind that what is happening in the state road system by day is a large-scale decentralization of power from state decision-making authority to regionally elected level. It's a new way of thinking about how to organize the building. We're going to have more infrastructure for money in the state's road system too, which will allow us to streamline and secure jobs in a decentralised structure in the future. So I'm glad that most people in this room, after all, end up doing it. There is a need for readjustment and necessary reforms in the public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1878	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1883	We have probably had a line change on this before, but the representative also mentions that there may be a need for further investigations of the State Road Service regarding the closure of 22 traffic stations, and we have also read in the media that the Council of State wants to postpone the decision on organisation, if I am not completely wrong. Does the Council agree with the Labour Party that this will be a problematic organization, or is there any other aspect of the Council of State that he thinks he needs to look into?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1888	The rule is to draw conclusions when we do it. However, I have said that I have a great understanding of the plural comment that the parties write. The basis for the decision must be sufficient. That was also our starting point when we ordered this review of the traffic and rolling stock area. Quite simply, the most important work being done in the TK area today is also a massive decentralisation. It's a decentralization from the traffic stations and into the PC home of ordinary people. So there's a shift of work all the way out, so people don't travel – all the time it makes sense. But at the same time, we need to know that some of the services that still have to travel for must be close to people. This means that we are now considering the report from the State Road Administration and will come back again with assessments of what kind of additional needs we may have for information in order to make a good decision about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1893	'We do not build in pieces and divided.' This underlined the Minister here in the Chamber yesterday. But the government does not intend to expand the last bottlenecks on the Helgeland South route in Grane, where the drivers have been paying tolls for a long time already. People feel tricked by the government when they don't get the way they've paid for, especially when the Council of State still stresses that he and the government don't build piece by piece and split. I know that the Progress Party does not mention the goal of four fields and 110 km/h in North Norway, but that the principle of not building pieces and sharing will not apply in North Norway is new to me. What's the reason why it's okay for the minister to build piece by piece and divide north of the Northern Port?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1898	We've had that discussion in Stortinget several times before, and the incorrect claim from the Center Party is no longer correct about a repetition of it. What is the case with Helgeland South is that there was an extension agreement with an entrepreneur. In it had an option to build up the last two parcels if one had a room for action within the dedicated frame of the project to realize it. Then you spent one of those money before. Thus, the State Road Service could not benefit from that option, for the basis of which he fell away. This is what the Center Party knows. They've been reminded of that time after time. It was also clear from the original funding proposal. But it might be the Center Party now to take over the fact in this case instead of repeating a false claim.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1903	No matter how much the minister repeats his explanations, he does not get away from the fact that there remain some bottlenecks on the lines that have toll payments, and one gets a piece of and divided road construction that becomes more expensive than necessary. I wanted to get to grips with what the representative Leirtrø had to say: in Leknes, for example, the savings by shutting down the traffic station would be NOK 340,000, while the increased costs for users would be almost SEK 1.7 billion. kr. Can the Minister envisage solutions where driving tests and theoretical knowledge tests can be taken locally in the areas under consideration or proposed by the traffic station?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1910	Once we get that report from the State Road Administration, we're going to go into it, and then we're going to draw the conclusions. In some areas, there may be a need for further evaluations, in others, the basis for decision may be sufficient. That's what the ministry is doing, and we're also following up the plural comment that comes from the government parties in this case. Then there are several different reasons for the different assessments made by the State Road Administration in its recommendation. Some are professional — one can always ask questions about the professional assessments, but they are still professional — and other assessments have other grounds for doing so. So the question is, how are we going to deal with this in general? The only answer I can give to the Storting right now is that we have to collect it when the decision-making basis is adequate, and it's a clear lead from me all the way that we have to take district policy into consideration even when we look at it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1919	I have a slightly interesting question about these two railway matters, since I also see that we have an interesting audience here, with the railway director. We've heard a huge show of New Roads AS and the way they can save in, that's kind of not how it works. I don't have time to comment at all. We see that some estimates go up on railway development in relation to the NTP management framework, but some actually go down as well. What I wanted to ask the Council of State is: we now see that the Council of State will have New Roads in the railway sector, and the Council of State has taken strong steps in the reform of the railways, but it is really about the structure and not about the development of the railways. So my question is, does the Council of State see that much of what he has learned and learned from the success of New Roads can be transferred to railway development?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1926	It may be obvious, and I'm glad that SV then – indirectly – says that many of the experiences we gain from New Road, and which are also used in the railway reform, simply clear sharing of responsibilities, clear specialisation possibilities, which SV is normally very concerned with criticising, are also the things that are going to make us more happy on the railway in the future, compared to what we have historically done. So if SV now has gone from being the basic courage to be very for the New Road – because it works – we can really just enjoy ourselves, the other us, until the day SV also sees that this railway reform that is being implemented is going to contribute to the same thing. Now I really look forward to the next two years. SV is, fortunately, about to turn around.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1931	I have boasted of parts of New Roads. I've done it from the pulpit here. This is due, inter alia, to: that contractors have been involved early. Some of the success of New Roads – now I will quickly go beyond my speaking time, I notice – is that they are on a virgin field, and that they have got a lot freer hands. There's a lot to say about how New Roads have been rigged, as the State Road Service never was. I have to stop there. My question is: does the Council have any concrete thoughts about how these experiences, for example. the early entry of contractors into the process, etc., can be used within the railway? Railway construction is enormously expensive. Has the Council of State seen any action that can be taken to reduce costs? Are there lessons we can draw from New Ways AS, for example:? Is he assessing measures or structural changes other than the breakdown and breakdown of the decision-making order?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1938	It's absolutely amazing to right the reasoning of Arne Nävra now. I almost recommend going to group meeting in SV immediately. The whole railway reform is simply about getting out the same dynamics when we now give Bane NOR greater opportunity to structure, focus on development and organise themselves differently, so that they also get people who work massively with development, optimising and reducing costs, getting social benefits from investment and making different assessments – just as we have got results from New Road. That's what's the foundation of the railway reform, and if SV's got an eye on it only now, it's at least happy that it happened in the end. That's what we've been doing for years, simply laying the groundwork for the value-added, the cost-reduction and the increased social benefits we've gained from the New Road, we're going to get out of the whole transport sector. It is necessary, therefore, to reorganise the state road system, and it has been necessary to carry out a rail reform. Finally, it smells like SV has understood what it's all about.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1944	I notice there's a pretty strong polemic here. I also notice that it doesn't meet me at all, because when we talk about the development of the railway, we talk about things that Bane NOR stands for to a large extent. Path NOR might draw some interesting lessons from what New Roads have done. I'm assuming that the Council of State may have some thoughts about it. To the railway reform: we are actually going to discuss it in the next case. It's a little bit about the Go-Ahead thing, and we'll probably get into a lot of aspects of it. The councils have hacked up the entire Norwegian railway system, as we see it, and gone the other way by dividing the responsibility into a whole bunch of companies that are going to buy and sell services to each other. Responsibility and the professional environment are very little combined – it is split up. So this has nothing to do with each other. I'm talking about technical expansion in the railway sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1951	That's where the illusion fell! It was as if SV were on the right track, but now they're rowing ashore again where they use to be: they're against all the changes that actually give results. They're going to know that in the third round. The whole problem is that we have a lack of the incentive structures that are needed to get results. For this reason, we have created a rail reform that will give us both greater competition between the actors, and thus optimises the responsibility of each of them. That's what the new path in the nucleus does. When the mission is to optimise the benefits of society by building the fastest and cheapest possible, different business models come, different involvement of the entrepreneurial market and all of this as a result of the mission – the very same mission that is the basis for us to implement a rail reform, which it seems as if SV was finally turning its arms around, but unfortunately it is in the last place.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1958	Replicate cord shift is over The following speakers also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1965	The representative, Tor André Johnsen, called the proposition ‘treasure’. I don't know so much about Johnsen's emotional life, nor about his gastronomic preferences, but I think "sads" might have been something beyond calling a collapse proposition. I took the word for what has to do with the extension of the portfolio to New Roads AS, and in particular what has to do with E16 Klöfta–Kongswinger. For me, anyone can build that road out. Whether it's the State Road Service or the New Roads that are responsible for it, it doesn't matter. The most important thing is that the road is built. But what is special here – and the Minister for Transport has confirmed it in letter form to the Committee – is that on the route Klöfta–Kongswinger there is already a new road built. There is a new four-field road completed between Klöfta and Nybakk and between Slomarka and Kongswinger. So it's on the distance between Nybakk and Slomarka. It's still building roads. But New Roads have been given responsibility for the whole route Klöfta–Kongswinger. So the Minister of Transport confirms that the 26.9 km by road that is completed can now completely ignore New Roads, and then they can build a completely new road next to that road. Does that make sense? The last four-field road was opened as late as 2014, so it is only five years old. Now it may be that we are going to build a completely new road and ignore it. It is good that it is new and good that one finds solutions, but we do not have such good advice in this country that we can equip ourselves with building several quadruple roads next to each other. I want New roads to be happy, but I believe that their mission must be to build a new road between Nybakk and Slomarka where there is no road. So I want to remind you that now it's urgent to do it. With the 2013 national transport plan and its action programme, that road should have started in 2017. So the road is already exposed by several years of the current government. Now we can't go on anymore. Now, with what's now lying there, that maybe you have to ignore already built sections, there could be a huge plan work again. We can't do that, now we have to build the road.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1974	It was interesting to hear that Gunne's representative has now really woken up. He really talked about – what was he talking about? Yes, environmental street and knitted yellow stripe. It's a little different than what was in the debate yesterday. But I understand very well what he's saying, because what's a little bit of a point, is that when you're going to go into that kind of project, there's projects here that people's been working for for years, that are now getting their reward. The same is true when we look at E6 in Gudbrandsdalen. As I mentioned in yesterday's debate, I was at the opening of New Roads at Lillehammer, who has been given responsibility from Moelv to Øyer, and at the same time in this portfolio, it is a responsibility to correct what is left. Then I'd like to remind you that there are already tolls here. People have been paying tolls for many years for a project that has not been completed. It goes on the E6 through Ringebu and not least to Sjoa and Otta. It's great that New Roads get the job when they have the rest of the road network in Gudbrandsdalen – it's just positive. Then I'll just say a little bit about what goes on the State Road Service. My reflections so far from what the department has got on the table are that parts of the state road system are being decentralised, further decentralised, and we and most others agree that the county council is given responsibility. Then you're in a change of pace in the state road system to figure out how to organize yourself with the problems to be solved. As I signaled in the line change instead, maybe a little bit of the point is that right in this process it's about being creative and seeing opportunities. In fact, it may be possible for the county to take on more tasks from the state road service than they have. They may be able to operate and maintain some road sections even after they have been completed. That might make sense. I would also like to mention that according to the common denominator of the county municipalities of Oppland and Hedmark, they are also going to decentralize many of the people they have been transferred from the state road system, by maintaining the traffic stations that are out there. They also manage to see a decentralised structure that the Vegvesen had in the past. We have in principle been sceptical about this divisional model, and it is also promoted in our proposal. We see the need, and had the optimal solution been the basis, that the state road system had still in itself been a decentralised organization, it could have been organized jointly. However, specific competence is required, e.g.: on bridges, tunnels and equivalent.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e1989	With regard to the representative Myrli and my feelings or preferences for what's wrong, I don't know if I'm going to dry to the depth of it. But the E16 is a matter that I allow myself to define as insults – that we are finally getting it given to New Roads. It's perhaps one of the road projects I've worked for the most since I got to Stortinget. It's been frustrating, of course, that it's taken time. To the representative Myrli: I can be very reassuring, really – I hope at least that Myrli will be reassured – because New Roads have a mandate: they must build socio-economically profitable. If it is profitable in relation to the other projects they have received and need to prioritise, to adjust slightly to E16 Klöfta–Kongswinger, it will be done. But I doubt it will be done, because the other projects will come before the queue. The most important thing here, I fully agree with the representative Myrli in it, is to get the "heavy" that is in the middle, where there are 40 and roundabouts and speed dumps, and get built out four fields all the way. It is also important to remember in the case of the project that was there, which had a large cost exceedance of billions, that the New Roads proposal was four-way and 110. To save money, they chose a new trajectory. The proposal from the State Road Administration was to build a worse road with two/three roads and 90 roads. It's probably nice for SV, but it's not nice for the drivers. Then I'm actually going to praise the Workers' Party by saying they're right that the road is delayed in Akershus. The first, small pair that would have started in 2017 if you had followed the NTP. But if you read the NTP of the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the SV, you wouldn't actually start at the last parcel, in Hedmark, until 2023. The clear goal I want to believe we all have – and I believe New Roads also have – is that as soon as they get the responsibility for the road today, they will go out and start hiring people and planning. Then I'm optimistic that they'll get started before 2023 and finish faster than what was in red-green NTP, with a significantly better standard, with 110 and four-fields, and have saved billions of dollars. It is important to bear in mind: a saver gets money, a better way, and in addition, there will be no delays throughout the project. Because it's the whole project that needs to be completed. It would not have helped if the Workers' Party had run the country today and built a few kilometers in Akershus, as long as one had not completed the entire project. We're going to do that -- New ways are going to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2000	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2016	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be up to six replies from members of the Government, and that those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2025	Norwegian railway is for sale. The first out was passenger traffic on the South Coast Railway. Now the traffic comes on the Dovrebanen, Raumabanen, Rørosbanen, Trønderbanen, Meråkerbanen and Nordlandsbanen, and then all the other sections of the track come in order. Traffic on all sections of the track shall be subject to tendering. English Go-Ahead won the tender on Sørlandsbanen, Arendalsbanen and Jærbanen – the so-called Traffic Package 1 South. When it was known last fall that Go-Ahead won the bid, the press revealed that other companies had been better at quality – had submitted tenders that were better at quality. Yes, it was actually claimed from several teams that the tenderer was the one who had the worst offer in terms of quality. We had a public debate, and the question was asked, Did this really vote? The opposition therefore asked the Minister of Transport to come to Stortinget to explain the matter – a request he followed – and he made a statement in the Stortinget on 18 December last year. That is why we are here today – after the presentation was sent to the Transport and Communications Committee for consideration. A little story: The railway reform was adopted in 2015 – very quickly dealt with in Stortinget, very politically disputed and adopted by hardly a majority. The then government parties, the Right Party and the Advance Party, received support from the Left Party and the Christian People's Party, while an overall opposition voted against – the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, SV and the MDG. I would like to stress that today's debate is not a rematch on the reform of the railways. We respect what the Storting has decided. We respect the majority of the Storting and the policy followed, but since the launch of rail traffic is so politically controversial in Norway, adopted by a narrow majority of the Stortinget, it is particularly important that the government and its underlying agencies implement the tendering process through correct and transparent processes. The work of the Committee has given the Committee access to certain documents which are outside the scope of publication and from which no reference or citation can be made. Of course, we respect that. We have not done so and we do not intend to do so either. However, I would like to add that several of the documents we received, certainly should not have been except for publicity and could have been published, so that more people could have access to them. In any case, the Committee's clear view is that the documents to which we have access – both those which are public and those which are not public – have not changed the view that there is actually a price to decide on the tenders for the railways. I will allow myself to read a section from a letter to the Committee of the Minister for Transport – a letter dated 8 February. It says: ‘The Directorate of Railways has come to the conclusion that Go-Ahead Norway AS won the offer of Traffic Package 1: South because they collectively delivered the best supply, what is called ‘the most economically advantageous supply’ in the professional language. In its assessment of Traffic Package 1: South, the Railway Directorate considered that there was a very small quality difference between the three offers that were available at the last round of the competition and that was therefore a decisive factor.’ So that's the price that determines. If you dump the price enough, you win tenders on the railway. Yes, there are quality criteria, but the tenders are rigged in such a way that the price actually determines. Is that really what we want? Do we really want those who are dumping prices enough to win the tender on the railway? Was that what the government and government parties said when we dealt with the railway reform? No, then it was better for the population and better quality that was the argument that was used. I'll get back to several things later, and then I'll bring up the three proposals from the minority in the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2047	The representative Sverre Myrli has drawn up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2052	It's almost so I think the representative Myrli now had a little bit heavy for it, because if it's so that it's relatively similar to quality, quite similar to quality, it's quite obvious that price will be decisive in such types of tendering processes. But let me start where I was actually going to start: the council gave its statement on the tender on the South Railway, also referred to as Traffic Package 1 South, 18 December last year. In its presentation, the Council of State gave a thorough account of the tendering process and its implementation, as well as the division of responsibilities and roles. Based on our assessment, the process has been tidy, and we trust that the Directorate-General for Railways has made a professionally good assessment of the offers received. In the Committee's work on this matter, the opposition has wanted some documents to be transparent. The majority of the Committee has not opposed such transparency and the opposition has been given access to the relevant documents. It is competitively sensitive information and must then be dealt with, as the representative Myrli also clarified. It is then felt that the size should be included in specific tender documents of this nature. From my point of view, there is reason to ask questions about whether the opposition has confidence in the job that the Railway Directorate has done. There will also be something special about the Storting to start to review the subject matter in these kinds of questions and make other assessments. The examination of the statement makes it very clear that this is not about the implementation of the tendering process but about a rematch on rail reform and the use of competitive outsourcing. On Monday this week, the result of the Traffic Package 2 North was presented by the Railway Directorate. It is gratifying to see that the tendering process produces results, both in the form of an improved offer to customers, travellers and a lower cost to the country. The tender procedures for the Traffic Package 1 South and Traffic Package 2 North show that the competition works and is real. In both packages, the cost of the country is significantly reduced. In Traffic Package 1 South, savings are close to 3 billion. DKK over 10 years, compared to the current level, and in the Traffic Package 2 North around 5 billion. kr, compared to the level of the day, over the next ten years. So it's going to be 8 billion. NOK only on the first two packages. These are funds that can be used to renew and improve the Norwegian railway system over the next 10 years. I'm recording that the opposition is running out of arguments. The representative of Permanentraune expresses to the media: ‘We believe that the Norwegian people deserve the best possible train offer, not that the state should save money.’ It testifies to a lack of respect for the community and taxpayers’ money – as does the representative Myrli, who calls for external evaluation of the tenders and says that the government sells the country a bit bit by bit. In this context, tendering procedures are carried out which are quite common in public transport and offer a better offer to travellers and a lower cost to the country. If the representative of Myrli is concerned with an external evaluation, he should also ask questions about how the funds for the purchase of passenger trains have been disposed of in the past. It is alarming that the cost of only the two tenders so far carried out saves the Community for 8 billion. DKK over 10 years, compared to the current situation. The Directorate for Railways has embarked on a line in which both quality and price are weighted. In the first tender, quality was weighted at 60 pst. and in the second offer 45 pst., based on the assumption that quality improvements were less possible in the Traffic Package 2 Nord. Both tenders show that there was a small difference in the quality of the final competitors in those tenders. Then it should not come as a surprise to any of us that the price will be decisive. Although quality had been weighted higher, the differences are so small that the price would in any case be decisive. We should rather be satisfied that we have several providers that deliver at a high quality level. The opposition is attempting to re-examine this statement on the railway reform. The problem is that the arguments against are becoming weaker, taking into account that both tenders offer a better offer to customers and more departures, while reducing the costs for the State significantly. It is a win-win situation, and the opposition should rather be satisfied that new organisation and tenders also work in the railway sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2074	I am also recording that the representative Place is drawing quite different points in the matter from what this really is about. This concerns the fact that, on 18 December 2018, Minister for Transport Jon Georg Dale made an oral statement in the Stortinget on the work and responsibility of the Ministry of Transport for the tender on Sørlandsbanen, also referred to as Traffic Package 1 South. This is the competition to enter into an agreement with the State to operate the train services on Sørlandsbanen, Arendalsbanen and Jærbanen, which are mentioned. The majority decided to send the statement to the Transport and Communications Committee for consideration there. That's what we're doing now, and that's also where the opposition has a role. The so-called railway reform was adopted in Stortinget in 2015 by a limited majority. Since the then government parties, the Right and the Advance Party, were given a majority for the reform, with the support of the Christian People's Party and the Left, was an overall opposition against it. There is a big and comprehensive reform that means a lot to people, and there is a different political approach to that reform, which should and should most likely be in a democracy. Then maybe what has been most common about now, perhaps also as a result of what we saw in the previous debate, about how to organise a form of transport that means as much as the railways do for Norway, and which is such an important part of the future with huge sums in national transport plans. That's what we're talking about when there's tendering on the different sections. During the examination in the Committee and in the debate in Stortinget today, some questions have been raised in view of the criteria set, and there were some questions of emphasis between price and quality. It is the case that train tendering will be open to tender without any exception. I guess that's what's in the cards, and that's what we have to assume. The centre party has further confirmed that the fragmented organisational structure of the railway, with several state-owned companies as suppliers of premises – and then I'm talking about suppliers of premises in a tendering process, the state negotiates with the state – makes it difficult to make reasonable and objective choices. Passenger traffic on the Sørlandsbanen, Arendalsbanen and Jærbanen was announced, as I mentioned, through Traffic Package 1 South, and the competition basis was sent out by the Railway Directorate on 12 October 2017. It was announced in press releases from both the Ministry of Transport and the Directorate of Railways that Go-Ahead AS had been awarded the contract for this traffic package. Shortly after the publication of the successful tenderer, it was announced to the public that, within 15 defined assessment criteria, the tenderer’s tender was worse than the tenderer’s tender in the vast majority of the criteria. This led to a great debate in public space and in the change of words, and the opposition parties at Stortinget therefore asked Minister of Transport Jon Georg Dale to come to Stortinget to explain the process, which he did in a thorough manner. Through its work on the presentation, the Committee has been given access to documents which are not public and to which no reference can be made, to which the representative of Myrli has been addressed. The central party, like the Workers' Party, is of the opinion that much of the information made available to the Committee should not have been except for publicity. I have read many documents in my life that have been apart from publicity – this should not have been so. That's what's a bit of a foundation when you're going to go out into public space and defend why the offer was as it was. That's not the result that's in principle interesting, but that's why. In such processes, public attention should be given to what is not public and what is public documents. It is very important that deviations from the professional criteria are documented and made public. And I strongly respond to the point made by the majority of the Committee, which points out that Go-Ahead AS has set high targets in terms of traffic growth, and ‘adopted the offer for its offensive attitude’. What is the basis for such a claim is unclear. So they won the bid for their offensive position.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2093	To the back porch here: This is a matter which is not only a statement of a postponement of tenders, but of that in itself it is formally seen, but it is also a consequence of the largest railway revolution ever here in the country. It's the rug. We're not getting away from that, and there's a lot of politics in this. The railway manager has simply been hacked into countless state companies — and private — to buy and sell services to each other. This is a classic recipe of a right-wing ideology to a large extent, that competition should lead to cheaper services – a bit costing what it will cost. This is one of the hindrances that makes the opposition very skeptical, not to say quite shocked, for the whole railway reform. It's obviously like, as the representative Myrli said, that this is a controversial reform, which was adopted by the very majority necessary to get the reform into port. I also have to say that it happened very quickly – and faster than such a great reform deserved to get whole, we shall say, democratic Norway with it. Of course, SV also respects a majority who were here in the Chamber of Reform, even if we disagree with this split. I had voted in favour of trains and rails separating everything in 1996, if I had been sitting with power, and I just said, "Look to Switzerland". Then I'll leave it there. The legendary and – I guess also have to say – the infamous company Go-Ahead won the tender on Sørlandsbanen. See if it has been said several times by the government team that the passengers are going to be in the center, so Go-Ahead is at the worst on 12 out of 15 quality criteria. This appeared early in the news picture, and it was not strange that the opposition reacted. Obviously, an opposition will react to this, and many parts of the train environment also responded to this. I cannot see, by examining all the documents we have had access to, what should be said that Go-Ahead was to be offered. First of all, of course, because it was quality that would count the most – that cut the worst. And I do not think that the growth in transport, i.e. the growth of passengers, was well justified. If it had even been, I would have taken it a little more quietly. However, the passenger growth was not sufficiently justified, at least from all the sides that I have gone through. Then you let the cats out of the bag, in a way, at the next package -- Traffic pack North. After all the criticism that has come about quality, the price should now count more than quality. Obviously, it was a natural grip for the government to take to drop the criticism that obviously followed the Go-Ahead offer. Win-win – not to say win – was well-known to the local representative. It was a win for all parties. Well, that'll show you the next few years. But in respect of such a great reform, that the Storting is divided roughly in the middle, and in respect of those who have built up the railway for a hundred years, you probably get to say, and kept a tradition for a hundred years, I think the government and the council should consider our proposals to put a foot in the ground and evaluate the two packages that have now been tendered, before the next packages are put on the market. Maybe you get a different opinion, and it will be very much so that much of that criticism can either be verified or contradicted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2108	There are exciting times in Norwegian railways, and unfortunately the latest decisions on rail reform have been made by a very limited majority. But it's a majority, and that's how democracy works: then we have to put it into life – and you do it now. The South Coast Railway was the first route to offer operations. I will also admit that it was quite surprising that Go-Ahead won the bid. I had hardly heard of that company. It's a little something you know about, and what you've felt about, and I've driven too little trains in England to know how that company can work. But I have great faith in the Directorate of Railways, who has really gone into and examined this company. Go-Ahead has responded to the different quality criteria that they had set up. They have responded to the price they have to take in order to make an offer. And then I like that it is offensive company that goes in and delivers offers, because they are going to try to get even more passengers to take the train. I think the whole Storting agrees that that is what should be the objective: that more people should use the fantastic offer that the train after all is. That's why I think the end of the show was that they were the right winners – when it turned out that they were quite similar to quality, and that they had the lowest price. So it's been a while, and the other package has come. The SJ won the bid, and it's exactly the same offensive attitude from the SJ, by wanting to give passengers a better offer. We want more passengers to make use of this offer, and that is also their goal. And I have to say it's a very good start, when we know that we're struggling with the infrastructure in a lot of the railway sector, that at the same time they're able to figure out that they have a strong desire to run larger trains and more trains and be offensive about the time we might have missed driving today. So they're on the passengers' premises and they're offering a good deal, for example. this with dynamic lashing. Then it is clear that not all countries have succeeded from day one with these railway reforms. That's what I've been following, so I'll be able to keep up with both England and Sweden. What did they fail in? Some of it was at least that you had different tickets, that each company had their own ticket system. You don't have to have that here. Here you need Entour to deal with this with a common ticketing system. In addition, there were the train sets, which Norwegian trains have to own here. They hire train sets for the companies to operate. Because it has to be high quality, and there has to be order on these trainsets. So I think we've at least removed some of the elements that the other countries have failed in – to perhaps succeed from day one. I understand that England and Sweden have partly succeeded very well lately, with far more train passengers than when they started their rail reform, and I welcome both the things that have been started, and not least the future of us getting even better experiences by train.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2121	I refer to my oral distribution of 18 December 2018, where I gave a briefing on the background to competition itself and the organisational changes that the railway reform led to, among others. that it is the Railway Directorate which forms part of and follows up the purchase of passenger services by train, and not the Ministry. I then briefed on the fundamental principles of procurement law, overseeing the framework for competition in Transport Package 1 and sharing responsibilities and governance in the railway sector. The briefing showed that the award of the contract that we are discussing today has taken place without political interference. Since December, matters have been on the Transport and Communications Committee. I'm conscious of my constitutional responsibility. The size has chosen a division of responsibilities between the department and the directorate through the processing of the ‘On the Right Track’ Storing message, where the Railway Directorate enters into and follows up traffic contracts for the passenger services. Thus, the directorate makes the assessments of the individual supply, because the Stortinget has believed that it provides the greatest basis for confidence among market players. It is particularly important when Vy is owned by the Ministry of Transport and is also an actor in the same market. It is decisive for market confidence that there is a level playing field and that award is made without the involvement or leadership of the ministry, government or Stortinget for the outcome. It would be very unfortunate if future players did not trust that competitions would take place on equal terms. I'm busy doing my job in a good and trusting way. Until now, I have not registered that the train operators have expressed their distrust of the train competitors. On the contrary, several of the providers have stated that they believe the directorate is a professional buyer that follows the gleams of players. As long as none of the train providers in question have expressed anything else, I take this into account, despite the posts in the Storting today. It has been important for me and the government that the state that buys these services behaves in a neat and careful manner towards the coming providers, the audience and not least the Storting. Therefore, it has been important to me that Stortinget has had sufficient information to deal with this matter. So I gave an oral briefing in December. I have, through several letters, met the Committee, given access to a document which I thought was necessary to obtain an adequate picture of the matter, and I have arranged for those members of the Committee who have requested it to have access to documents which I have not applied for myself, in respect of the fact that the operators in the market should be sure that we do not intervene. This means that the opposition is now looking at more information about the details of the weight of the various offers than both me and the ministry do. As far as I can see, I note that there is no new information to be provided – nor through this treatment – that the offer around the Sørlandsbanen has not been well managed. This government is investing in the railways. The good results of the first and now also the second competition show that rail reform and increased competition work. This shows that we are delivering on the measurements that the Storting has given its support to. We suggest that travelers get a better offer, and that we get more rail for the money, while continuing the growth of the loops for new infrastructure. I think it's good railway policy. Over the past six months, the opposition has tried to create the impression that the player who won the first traffic package has not done so under the right conditions. Today, the opposition says that they have not found anything that would otherwise be wrong, so now they will have some external to review the documents they have not found that would lead to another conclusion. The attempt by the Stortinget to play political games around the allocation of Traffic Package 1 South will be answered by the opposition in Stortinget itself. I am absolutely sure that the bidding rounds will have to continue, because it provides passengers with better access and lower costs for taxpayers.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2140	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2145	We've discussed the relationship between price and quality a lot. The problem is that the public does not know what the differences were in the different tenders, and therefore, of course, it is also very difficult to discuss it. I think the committee leader The place was quite clear in his post here instead, because he said that the price in any case had been decisive. There's some of that opposition that has taken up. It seems to us that these tenders are linked so that in reality only the price is decisive. My question to the Minister for Transport is: Does he agree with what the representative in Place said – that the price in any case would have been decisive?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2153	The representative of the place did not say that price had in any case been decisive. He said that when the supply of the quality indicator, which was 60 p.m., was so similar, it is clear that the price was added to the decisive weight. Therefore, I have also blackened the Storting this whole way, every time I have been asked that it was the most economically advantageous offer. Because it was equal to quality, which was 60 pst., the last 40 pst., which was weighted by price, obviously means something for the award. We've been very open all the way – we've been all the way. It shows that the main criticism of the Labour Party in this matter is not that passengers are given a poorer offer – because they get a better offer – but that the state saves too much money that we can reinvest in infrastructure. That's a very special starting point.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2164	The problem is that travellers could get an even better offer, but neither the Minister of Transport nor any other public documents show that. But this is the case today, and the statement was about Traffic Package 1. Now the government has chosen the offerer for Traffic Package 2, and then the other traffic packages follow. Can the Minister for Transport now say something about the weighting of price and quality in the other tenders? Is it like in Traffic Pack 1, or is this now weighted differently in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2171	Here we're at the heart of the problem. The representative Myrli thus says that the government has now selected an offerer in Traffic Package 2. That's the whole point -- the government doesn't. The objective criterion through the procurement process, known in advance, is measured on indicators by the Directorate-General for Railways, which allocate supply, and there is a deadline for complaints which have not yet expired. The government will not select at any time which players will win this offer. The Labour Party is trying to construct a debate for which there is no basis at all, misrepresenting the procurement processes, for which they have not found any basis at all, even after six months of work in the Transport and Communications Committee. That's the core of this case -- an attempt at political games from the opposition completely without a basis. The criteria for weighting the various parts are set out in the various packages.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2176	Through our work on this statement on Traffic Package 1 South and the documents we have been given access to, which are not public, and to which it cannot be referred, we, as I said earlier, are of the opinion that this should of course have been made available to the Committee. It has now been, but it should also have been made available to the public. Now I understand that the Council of State has not read those documents. The opposition says that they have confidence in the job that has been done, and we also, of course, have confidence in the job that has been done. But will the Council of State read the documents that are not public, and assess whether the Directorate should have let them become public?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2183	No, I don't. In contrast to the individual representatives, I have no intention of clearly relying on the competence to review legal judgements about what is competitively sensitive information for future supply packages, although some from the opposition have relied on greater legal skills than all the legal environments we have used. I'm not going to do that, not now, not later, unless it's supposed to be completely revealing weaknesses through the supply competitions, such as the one you're looking for. implies that operators in the market do not trust them. But it hasn't happened. It is not a single actor who complains about the competition in these packages. There have only been opposition attempts to create a political game for which there is no basis at all, and today one also shows that there was no basis for it. The opposition has been revealed. Attempts at political games on rail competition should be put away once and for all.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2188	Neither publicly known documents nor documents other than the public to which we have had access refute the impression created that there are low-priced providers who win tenders for train passenger services. We've repeated that over and over again. Then it is very important that the professional criteria that have been waived are made publicly known, so that you can refute the fact that only the price is being evaluated. Our perception is that these documents should definitely be public, and I hope that they can be so in the future. Will the Council of State ensure that deviations from professional criteria – and only that – are made public?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2195	The state and the government are always trying to get more public. But we have privacy, and we have to keep away from what is open is competitively sensitive information. We've also taken that into account. The size has been made clear, so that they can carry out their control function, but it will not be published, because it is sensitive to upcoming traffic packages. But the argument for the Center Party is pretty hollow. So what they've read doesn't contradict the image that's created. But who created that impression then, other than the Center Party, the Workers' Party and SV? In fact, those who have created the impression that things have gone wrong here, that one cannot document, that even the company itself does not believe, which means that they continue with their complaints, which means that these offers are right and that there is also effective competition in Traffic Package 2. The centre party expected their own impressions to be revealed by the centre party. That trust I don't have to represent Fasterøne.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2204	This matter is not about trust in me or not. You're talking pretty loud about something you actually haven't read. I recommend the Council of State to read the documents – it's not much, it's 30 pages. Read them, and then you can then evaluate whether it's smart that these documents become public, so that people understand why these choices are made. Will the Council of State do that?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2209	The President would like to remind the representative that the speech should be corrected by the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2214	I base my assessment of this on legal advice on use and transparency based on the principle of the state of more publicity, on the sensitivity of competition in this information, and on the extent to which it is appropriate for competitors to have transparency, which they really get about publicity. Therefore, Stortinget has gained transparency when they asked for it, but the information is still not public, simply because that information means something to the competition in the market that is currently saving us for 8 billion. kr in the first two packages. We can't give up on it; then the state doesn't act as a professional buyer and actor. The state may not do so when the Senter party is in government, but not when I am responsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2222	So price has become a mantra here, and there is one field that the Council of State and the right parties almost never talk about, and there is the pay and employment of employees in the new companies on the Norwegian rails – when they are going to use the same train, the same rails, the same ticketing system, etc. What are they competing for in order to get the price down? There are some of us who think that there are pay and employment relationships – over time, maybe not right away, but after a while. Can the Council of State see that there is a risk that pay and employment conditions will be put under pressure over time in the new companies operating on Norwegian rails?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2229	I assume that the requirement to win offers on this is that one treats them as a business transfer, with the same rights related to wages and pensions. So that's what I'm referring to. It has our command for the entire bidding rounds. This is an attempt to suspect the new actors that are coming in. When Vy cut their expenses in Traffic Package 2 by 80 pst. against what they pay today, does SV think it is because they intend to start to thin their additions in a way that they have never been near to smell before? I don't think so. I believe competition provides innovation, new ways of thinking and other ways of attracting passengers. That's what makes supply work, because supply breaks monopoly. When a monopoly is broken, costs are reduced, a customer focus is increased, and a result is better. That is why this railway reform is working. I realize it's frustrating for the opposition, but now it's documented by two competitors.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2236	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2243	I'm a little uncertain about what parliamentary vocabulary is right now, but now it's getting pretty embarrassing, and I mean it. When you read the position in this case from the minority in the committee, it is obvious that this is half a year when the Norwegian press, where all the deposit representatives from the opposition, where all of the advisers to the depositors from the opposition, where the whole party apparatus and trade unions have tried to find something wrong – some breaches of rules – in connection with the tender, but not clearly to find one thing, and because one has not been able to find anything wrong with everything, you need an examination. It's turning things completely on your head. We require review when we believe we have found something wrong, not when we believe we have not found anything wrong. There is just a little difference between the decision we made in the Food Safety Authority – where there was evidence that something was wrong – and the decision you are proposing from the opposition to do here today, namely that we should investigate something we know is not wrong. In addition, I am constantly surprised by the lack of insight into the purchasing profession and the procurement regulations of the opposition. We experienced it in connection with the Storing Message 22, Report. St. 22 for 2018–2019, and we now experience it. It is not the weighting criterion that determines quality; the weighting criterion determines how to weigh marginal differences against each other. It is the requirement specification that says the car should have four wheels, not the weighting criterion. It's also true that here one believes that a claim of 60 pst. quality is too small, while it was thought that a requirement of 30 pst. the environment was sufficient in the context of a gross notification 22. No one asks the obvious question, the question that should have been the subject of an investigation: how could it be that a company – 100 pst. owned by us in this room – today driving at a price that is five times higher than the price they offer tomorrow? That is the question that should have been the subject of a further review, because it determines the quality and extent of the offer and what we can offer services in this area. But no, that's not an interesting question for the opposition, and here we are at the core. It seems to me that the opposition will only accept a set of criteria that means that NSB/Vy wins the tender, and that seems to be the reason for the criteria you want – not quality, not price, not environment. It's okay that we're worse at all of this, as long as the NSB wins.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2256	The chairperson of the Committee said earlier in the debate that the opposition does not trust the Directorate-General for Railways. That's what I think sad to hear, and that's actually what I think is unnecessary to say by the committee chairman, because the committee chairman should know that the Stortinge knows only the government and the council, and the Stortinge has nothing to do with labeling the underlying agencies. There might be a need for a small dose of constitutional teaching in this room. Thus, according to the principle of power-sharing, the size has three important roles: the size is advocacy, legislative authority and supervisory authority. And it's as controlling authority that we have a set of rules on this house, both in the trade unions and in the committee of control and constitution, on how the role of the Storting as controlling authority is to be exercised. So that's what we're now discussing. The size has nothing to do with either the Railway Directorate or other underlying agencies. I underline this once again: it is the government and the council that the Stortinget is dealing with. I want to say to Jon Gunnes, who said that they have shown that they were quite similar in quality. No, they don't, and that's what was one of the points of the opposition. Because it's not shown. So that's not the right thing Gunnes says. Of course, we cannot go further with what we have from documentation that is not public, but the government itself has published in a letter to the Class Battle of 18 March 2019 the expected passenger numbers of the various providers at the end of the tendering period, and it is quite clear how the three tenderers who were at the end had calculated the number of passengers for the Southern Railway, the Railway and the Arendal Railway respectively. The figures have been published by the Ministry in the letter, but the way in which the companies have carried out these calculations has not been published. Is it a thought-of-a-number, or what is it? Is this government party in the setting called 'an offensive attitude'? Some of the points of the opposition are why no more of the documents we have had access to are published. Then I have to say to the last speaker, Mr Nilsen, who said that the committee has not found anything wrong: I don't think anyone from the committee has said that. And if we had found something wrong in the documents we've had access to, we couldn't go on with it, and we have to respect that. Therefore, the proposal that we could have an independent evaluation of the tendering process comes. So someone else could have gone in and looked at the evaluation, and then we could have learned from it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2269	The representative Myrli is competent to refer and refer to previous speakers, so I thought I should do the same, I too, and refer to Jon Gunnes. He really had a very good point. We want to give passengers a good offer. Our goal, of course, is not to frustrate the rail offer, even if you can almost get the impression of it when you hear a lot of the debate that has been going on lately on the reorganization of the railways in Norway. So the whole debate seems a little strange and illogical. It feels a little special that the whole opposition, almost half the Stortinget, does not want to save public expenditure and is negative to the conversion, efficiency and competition that is best for both customers and passengers here, and not least the taxpayers. We're actually saving $3 billion. NOK at Traffic Package 1, and we save about 5 billion. NOK at Traffic Package 2 North. And there are quality requirements in the tenders. In Traffic Package 2 North there are actually 171 different requirements. Of course, we want to have a good train offer, so that more people can travel by train, but unlike the red-green ones on the left-hand side, we are also concerned about the costs. That's why we're opening up competition. It's healthy, and it's important and right. It is a little special and a little strange to see that our neighbouring country Sweden opened up to competition on the railways in the 1980s, which is soon a generation ago. The socialist friends in Sweden, the social democrats, are obviously a little more open and understand more that competition is important than what red-greens have in Norway. Otherwise, this debate really reminds me a little of the debate that was against New Roads – I don't have to say the debate on New Roads, but the debate on New Roads. It is a somewhat poorly hidden ideological agenda, where everything should be clearly public, and everything should be protected from competition. But fortunately, now the criticism of New Roads has stopped. More and more people see New Ways working, more and more see New Ways being a success, and it's joyous. We in the Progress Party believe that time will show that competition on the railways was also right and important, and that the reforms we are actually implementing will be a success, at the same level as New Roads have been a success.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2284	I want to re-examine the subject matter that I raised in my reply with the Council of State, namely what happens to the pay and working conditions of employees over time in the new companies on the Norwegian rails. Yes then, business transfer I trust for corresponding jobs, that's what we're talking about, but what about over time, after the next negotiations, and after that again? We see examples of this in aviation; we see it very well. We know that SAS had about monopoly for many years – well, that’s right, and it was high prices, it’s also right – but we see that there were some that fell out when this washing water was to be thrown out, that there was a part that came along. What we saw was that the air force had to run faster and faster. So now there's people from Ground Services who almost spew in the street because they're overworked because they're going to meet the competition, and SAS has to meet the low-cost companies as well. Similarly, the NSB – as I call them, they are also called Vy now – must meet the competition on equal terms. They have to be streamlined. That's one of the reasons why they were to be painted and baptized for 250 million. kr or so, to make their homes green. It's part of the competition, it's part of this that we pay. As I tried to describe, probably the only way they can compete is by looking at pay and employment for employees over time. It's likely that quality will also decrease over time, because there are ways of saving in. To take an example from aviation again: the low-cost companies have almost no information desks left. It's SAS that gets all of those visits, and they have nothing to do with Norwegian or anyone else. We see this all over the world, where competition and this mandate are put on the agenda. Another point, which is not mentioned in particular in relation to these packages that were put out, is why prices have been reduced so far. It has been compared with previous NSB allocations on routes. One must at least compare with the current offer from Vy, to compare with the new one. Can it be – I just ask that question, it is quite natural – that the new companies from Sweden and from England want to enter the Norwegian market? It's natural to ask that question. Could it be that they are quite subduing at first, in the first years, to enter the Norwegian market? And what happens afterwards?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2297	I have a little witness from someone who runs a competitive route quite regularly, NSB Gjøvikbanen AS. It has been an annual march, every year since it was exposed to competition. It has had more and more passengers every year. Much is due to more frequent departures and a regularity that is far better, sometimes also quite pleasant staff, who occasionally offer on an ice or a bottle of water completely unsolicited. There has also been a better profitability on that route. You can compare it to what it was like before. Then there were more and more departures by bus for trains. It was a regularity that we were uncertain about. Of course, it also has a connection with the fact that there have been new train sets on the Gjøvik Railway in the last year. It actually happened for the first time in 115 years, and it says something about what we've been doing. So it's time we got a little bit further. The NSB Gjøvikbanen has been exposed to competition for almost 15 years and evaluations have been carried out. Free trade movement has also referred to them – more frequent departures, more passengers and better profitability have, for example: do not exceed the working conditions of the employees. It has also led to less consultancy, and we are also quite pleased that the train is going more often, faster and with more passengers, and that we can spend fewer consultants and more money transporting passengers. We have one more example that is a pretty good success, and it's the sleepers in Norway. No one's talking about the plane train. On all ratings comparing brands in Norway, the Fly train is on top 5, top 10 or, as a rule, on top 3. So we have at least two great successes to point to. That the two new actors, SJ and the British actor, should be somewhat less able to deliver the goods, I can't see. So this is going to be a debate with shadow boxing. There are many good reasons to claim and know what you are buying, and here there are some who have not delivered the goods in 115 years. Then it is time to try something new on behalf of the passengers and those who want a better offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2310	When the railway reforms are implemented and these sections are now being offered, I just have to say that both in Traffic Package 1 and Traffic Package 2, we have achieved what we wanted to achieve – namely a better offer for travellers, for customers, and a lower cost for the state. That's what I called a win-win situation instead. I can do that here, in my opinion, with a good conscience, simply because I have a responsibility to use public funds as well as possible and to get the most railways back for every single penny we use in this sector. In the same way, we have a responsibility to give those who are going to use the train the best offer possible. What this shows is both that competition is real and that it works. Both parts are good, simply because at the end of the day, the customers, who are also taxpayers, are the winners in this case. Some questions were asked. Well, it's the Railway Directorate that's implementing this competition. And when the Directorate of Railways presents the outcome of this competition and says that the remaining ones score relatively equally on quality: what I said instead, and earlier today, was that given that the quality differences are as small as they are, it is quite obvious that the price is going to be decisive. One could have increased the requirement for quality, and still the price would have been decisive, given that the quality differences are so small. Then I can choose to trust that the Directorate of Railways has made good professional assessments of this, or I can not do that as the opposition: start looking at the working documents. But I choose to trust that there is a profession here that does the job that they are going to do, in order to work out the basis of competition and carry out that competition in a neat and proper way. This is not a problem that we from Stortinget's side are going to dig too far down in, because we simply don't have the competence to do that. I also understand that there is a need for control, and therefore we asked the Council of State to make a statement on the matter, and it was done on 18 December last year. That statement gave me a good enough answer that there is a good division of responsibilities and roles between the Council of State and the Directorate of Railways in these processes, which, for me, is a quality stamp for the Directorate of Railways to do their professional work on an independent basis. In this way, I believe that we have got a very good result. And what's fascinating about this is that both actors who have now won Traffic Packages 1 and 2 respectively have won because they just have an offensive attitude. They think they should be able to get more people to take the train, and they're winning at it. That's very good.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2325	The debate has gone, and it's kind of on either side of the corridor here. Those who are concerned that this is a good solution and the future of the Kingdom of Norway are talking about that we have to take responsibility for taxpayers' money, and that the price of course has to be high. We have also discovered that this is what has been done in the tender. What we're trying to say, and as we've repeated quite a number of times, is that when there's something that's uncertain about the professional criteria -- or like to call it a basis in the actual documentation -- it's not a bastant, but we're saying that an external review might help to find out if this is done in a reasonable and good way, and that you're open to it. When the opposition also says that the documents submitted to us should not have been except for publicity, it is enough for me to imagine that most people in this room who had read those documents had concluded immediately. It must be in favour of those who argue for those who have won the tender. That's really what's at the heart of the matter. If you agree that this is right or wrong, you might want to discuss here in the Chamber whether it is politically right or wrong. What we have said is that we need to assess and look at what has gone on the offer. That's what's been a big public discussion. This is slightly different from many other tenders. It's actually a package that means a lot to this country, and that kind of rocks by a long story. I would like to say that a bit of the attitude is reflected at, among other things. The representative, Kjeseth, says that there are now people who deliver the goods on the Gjøvik track, which NSB has not done in 115 years. It is clear that it is very special – when you have seen what the railways and the NSB have meant to Norway – to claim that we have had a railway that has not provided services to the people of 115 years, because more frequent take-offs have taken place on the Gjøvik Railway in recent years. That percentage is otherwise not higher than many of the other percentages on the railway which have not been tendered.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2336	I see the members of other committees coming into the room now, and both their eyes and the President's eyes and considering the speaking time the Committee on Transport and Communications has used both yesterday and today, I would like to say that we might be going into today's debates for a landing. At the heart of the debate – to the point also raised by the representative Nävra: I have recorded that the government council and representatives of the government parties have said that the employees who are currently driving trains on the routes that other providers are now going to drive keep exactly the same pay and working conditions. That's right. There are rules that regulate – rules on the transfer of activities. But then it has to be clarified that they apply to the next main settlement. This could be done, for example, by: the fact that a tenderer chooses to be a member of another main association, that there will be a different collective agreement after the next main settlement. So yes, on the southern runway, the new player will take over in December, and the employees will maintain existing pay and working conditions for three to four months until the next main settlement. What happens in the future, none of us know. However, there is probably a reason why employees and employees’ organisations are concerned that this will in the long term put pressure on pay and working conditions. So I just want to sign out one thing. The Minister of Transport said that the opposition in this matter – after we have access to some documents that are not public, I stress “some,” because there were not many – is on more documentation than the Minister of Transport does. The opposition, he says. I would like to make it clear that the entire committee was given the opportunity to read those documents, all the committee members, from both government parties and opposition. It is possible that none of the members of the Government parties in the Committee availed themselves of the possibility of reading those documents. I don't know. But I just want to make it clear that the whole committee had the opportunity to go through those documents. The fact that the Council of State has not read those documents is therefore the choice of the Council of State, and I do not think it can be used as an argument in the debate here. In the end: it is said that the railway keeps setting new records, several want to run trains. Yes, exactly! This happens on most sections of the railway system because the rail service has been considerably expanded in the last 15 years. There are several new lines built, there are several trains purchased, and so the railway is increasing by just NSB, or rather by Vy, running. It is therefore possible to have strong increases in passenger numbers without putting railway traffic out of competition.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2350	After six months of debate on everything that could have gone wrong during the first round of bids on Norwegian railway, the opposition is actually adjourning today. I think that's fine, but I don't like that they're still trying to doubt what's really going on. The opposition pretends that quality did not matter in the offer. Quality is weighted by 60 pst. The quality criterion in the offer meant that none of those in the last round would have provided a worse service than today, just better. So the supply on the Sørlandsbanen, Arendalsbanen and Jærbanen is going to be better than today, at a fraction of the price. The opposition is still pretending to be a failure. Now we have to stop evaluating, now we have to give gas. There has been a waste of money on the Norwegian railway, we haven't got the quality effects it's possible to get for passengers before there was a bidding round. When monopolies fall, it is better for passengers and cheaper for taxpayers. The opposition's answer is: No, wait, stop, we can't hang on to this anymore, now we have to pause. We don't have to pause, we have to speed up the implementation of competitions on the Norwegian railway, so that we get a better supply for passengers, so that we can bring down the costs for taxpayers, so that we can invest more in new infrastructure instead, in new train equipment and in more departures. A higher rate is required now, not the opposition's pause. The opposition has abdied after six months today. This is good for Norwegian railways, because then the competition can continue, so that we can provide better services at a lower cost.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2363	There are clearly no limits to what the Minister of Transport can say from the Parliamentary Chair. He claims that others have talked about things that have nothing to do with the matter. What was the last article? It had nothing to do with the matter at all. One reason why the Committee has spent a long time in this respect is, inter alia, that: that it took a very long time to get answers from the Minister for Transport to some questions — completely elementary questions asked by the Committee, which took a long time before we were answered. That is why the Committee has spent a long time doing this, and because we wanted to do it thoroughly and properly, and because there were some practical arrangements that had to be made for committee members to have access to documents that were not public. Then we can take a full debate on railway policy, as the Minister of Transport and others from the government parties earlier in the debate criticized the opposition to interfere with the debate, because it would certainly have nothing to do with the matter. But then, in his last post, the Minister of Transport bangs and draws up a debate on completely different things from the one we have to deal with today, i.e. the statement on Traffic Package 1 South. We can do that, but we'll find some other formats to discuss future railway policy. I just want to refute what the Minister for Transport said about the opposition wanting to pause. The opposition is impatient, the opposition wants a better rail offer, the opposition wants to build more rail, the opposition has higher appropriations for rail purposes in its alternative state budgets, the opposition is impatient to expand public transport in order to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from the transport sector, the opposition has a very active railway policy and has very good proposals. And yes, we can come back to how we'll discuss the future railway later.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2372	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox The President would say that she did not intend to give anyone a look, but probably thinks in her quiet mind that the Transport and Communications Committee deserves a little break from the Chamber now.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2391	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2400	The representative of Moxnes has made twelve proposals concerning industrial policy, energy policy, transport policy, fiscal policy and climate and environmental policy. Red wants to expand more renewable energy. They'll bet on bioeconomy. They will use State pension funds abroad for national environmental action. And they'll say no to new power connections abroad. A joint committee is opposed to the proposal as a whole, but a number of proposals are still being made in the vote. The opposition parties, which represent the majority of the Committee, promote proposals to call on the government to provide an ambitious and climate-friendly domestic market for maritime industry, through environmental requirements for public procurement. We ask the government to contribute to the development of new industrial production and new value chains based on marine, soil and forest bioresources, and we ask the government to strengthen regional development funds. In the vote there are also several minority proposals from the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party, which I expect these parties will explain for themselves. The Centre Party, SV and the Green Party promote proposals for the establishment of a green investment company for the development of technology enterprises based on renewable resources. We are also promoting a proposal for a state pilot project for sea wind, and we are asking the government to explore the potential of geothermal energy. In addition, the SV and the Greens are promoting proposals for a large-scale investment in sea wind. The Green Party alone is proposing the creation of a Bionova, a model fund from Enova, to systematise innovation and increase the commercialisation of both new and already known ways of using renewable living nature over more of fossil. With this I address the proposals of the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Good debate!
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2417	The representative of Une Bastholm has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2422	Norway needs a more active industrial policy, and we agree with the proposer. There is a need for an industrial policy based on new efforts on climate-friendly solutions, which secures and creates new jobs across the country – and we in the Workers' Party are impatient. Yesterday we debated the issue of sea wind in this Chamber, and a little over a week ago we put forward our own proposal to use the EU action space around guarantees of origin in order to prevent our industry, which is building its production on green force, from having to increase costs by purchasing expensive paper evidence that they are green, because they are already green. In today's debate on industrial development, the Labour Party has three new concrete proposals to build under Norwegian industrial development based on climate-friendly solutions. We ask the government to continue the CO 2 compensation at today's level, with at least 75 pst. compensation also after 2020. Furthermore, we ask the government to contribute to the development of new production methods and uses of hydrogen based on Norwegian natural gas. And we propose to actively facilitate fleet renewal in short sea shipping. The government's previous actions were too bad, and now it's a fairy tale. We want to set up a new top-level financing scheme in GIEK, the Export Credit Guarantee Institute, and a wreckage scheme that hits. The headline of the case, on industrial revolution, on a Document 8 proposal is probably some of the most tumultuous thing I've heard since I came to the Stortinget in 2009, and to revolutionary Moxnes, I would say that it might be a big crack from the headline to the content – but he's going to have for effort. In government, the Workers' Party has put in place many different business strategies, new tools, such as Enova, and programmes, such as the Eco-Technology Scheme in Innovation Norway – to be completely concrete. During the previous period, digitalisation and Industry 4.0 were a major investment that we talked about in industrial policy, and the Workers' Party proposed to establish a Norwegian top industrial centre, which is now established and called DigitalNorway, so it has done a lot. During the case's treatment, there has also been a proposal from the Centre Party and SV that I want to say something about. Last year we dealt with the third energy market package, and the Workers' Party entered into an overall agreement with the government parties and the Greens' Environment Party. We stand for that. It is gratifying that the Centre Party and SV want to start being proactive on some of the proposals, among other things. What goes on in foreign tables, but it's too thin. Nevertheless, we want to vote in favour of proposal No. 7, because we agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2440	Would the representative like to make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2445	Yes, I'm dealing with the proposals No. 1-3, from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2450	Then the representative Else-May Botten Norderhus addressed the proposals she made.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2455	Let's be honest – as wide as this case has become, today's debate can go all the way. But let me do some general lines. This is a majority of great ambitions for industry and climate. On Monday, the government's proposal to enter into a joint cooperation agreement on the achievement of the 2030 emission targets was adopted. It makes Norwegian climate policy more ambitious and obligatory than ever. We have to stop the emissions, not the evolution. Norway should continue to be a country where values are created, where jobs are created. If we're going to uncouple growth from emissions, we're going to have to change, and this shift is going on. Capital, business-promoting tax relief, transport, exports and research are required to achieve the transition. Here the government provides – and more than what has been done in the past – e.g.: through a doubling to nationwide industrial research and innovation. We should not pick winners, and in the fight against climate change there is not just one technology that has to win, there are many technologies that are necessary. At the same time, Norway has a potential for a new renewable industrial venture through sea wind. This is why the government has put forward a strategy for this, and the aim is for Norwegian suppliers to seize the opportunities offered by this renewable industry. The government also assesses relevant early-stage support mechanisms models, and Energy21 has sea wind as one of six priority areas in its strategy. At the same time, a solid knowledge and technology platform for deep geothermal energy is being developed, as this can play an important role in the future energy system. Today, the government has also presented the Green Shipping Action Plan. It is an offensive plan, with the government presenting a reinforced policy for the different categories of vessels. The Government shall also provide a strategy for the research, development and use of hydrogen as an energy carrier. Bioeconomy is also a priority of the government, and in 2018 it was granted approx. 4 B.C.E. kr in grants and loans for bioeconomy actions in Innovation Norway and the Norwegian Research Council. Enova is also an important means of cutting emissions, and the mission is larger than just contributing to emissions cuts in Norway. At the same time, it is the most important tool we have for making Norwegian jobs greener. This government has granted more money to Enova at every crossroads, and Enova is more resource-based than ever. In addition, we have established the investment company Nysnø AS, which is to make investments that contribute to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. Norwegian renewable energy is a competitive advantage for Norwegian industry. It's going to keep going. At the same time, we are in favour of renewable cooperation in Europe, which is good both for the climate, for the renewable industry and for Norwegian consumers. This is a majority that is betting on Norwegian industry, which is focusing on good climate policy, and I still don't think it is that a Communist party has the solution neither on industry, climate nor anything else.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2485	We are now discussing proposals from the Red with the title ‘on a new industrial revolution – fair and environmentally friendly’. The name of the case will be returned later in the post. I'll comment on some of the points first. The main framework for the country's industrial policy is set out in the Report. St. 27 for 2016–2017, Industry – greener, smarter and more innovative. The mandate of the State pension fund abroad is firm, and the government adds to the growth of both existing and new enterprises. The government also wants to promote Norway as an attractive country of localisation for industrial activity. In this context, it is important to ensure good access to capital, industrial research and innovation, and that we have technology development and competence, tax incentives for people and businesses, and not least offensive transport policies. The last point I can't stress enough. For decades, Norwegian industry has been frightened by more forward-looking, environmentally friendly and road and infrastructure-not least four-field motorways in large parts of the country. And what's worth noting is that we have a strategy for floating sea winds. The potential for liquid sea wind is high, not only for mills, but also for surrounding technologies such as subsea installations, cables, the maritime sector and renewable energy carriers. I would like to remind you that this is possible precisely because we have an oil and gas industry. Some of the proposals have already been taken into account in government policy, while other proposals will have significant budgetary implications and in this way may be better suited to another debate. Norwegian industry is open, market-oriented and export-based. It has served Norway well and continues to serve Norway well. Finally, as probably the only representative in this room where half the family has actually lived in a Communist country and experienced what a revolution really is, and what the consequences really are, I can say that there is nothing, neither fair, environmentally friendly, nor friendly about a revolution, as the party Red writes in its heading. It's actually weapons, it's chaos, there's riots in the streets, you get yelled at, Securitate agents on the corner, it's oppression, and it's deprivation of people's property. In fact, I think it's a little unfortunate that there are sofa radicals that romanticize the use of a word that they all, most people experience as something very negative. Fortunately, the content of Document 8 does not reflect the title. The Progress Party does not find the sum total to be able to support the proposals in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2504	I've probably never been a revolutionary either, but that we need to change, there's no doubt about it. In the 1990s, when I became politically active in the Senterung, we had a campaign with the slogan 'No to the Banana Republic', and it referred to the oil and gas dependence in which the country was entering and which we are experiencing today. The transition to a climate-friendly society will be demanding. To do that, we are totally dependent on the sustainable use of raw materials other than fossils. In Norway, the forest will be an important piece in that conversion. The forest can practically replace fossils in all fields. Norway has a lot of forest, a long tradition of managing it, and growth is significantly greater than today's logging. It also means that the potential for increased value creation is absolutely present and will be important for the migration that the country is going through. I'm staying a little bit in the woodworking industry, because over the last decades, the woodworking and woodworking industries have undergone a massive transformation. Many of the traditional enterprises based on wood as raw material are either shut down or out, and the result is that Norway is currently exporting large quantities of timber out of the country. So we're becoming a commodity-exporting nation here as well. We don't have to sit in the situation that we become a net exporter of timber. We must help to ensure that the timber contributes to Norwegian jobs, Norwegian value creation, Norwegian technology development and competence. Then we have to start with the businesses we already have, and make sure that they get fair framework conditions, such as: Suction is used in Halden, which does not receive CO2 compensation. They're now starting at 80 million. kr behind its competitors, and it does not contribute precisely to the further development of the company. That is why we also need to ensure that the CO2 compensation system is continued and that the Saugbruks can take part in it. In addition, we need to increase the investment rate for the development of new industries, whether it is construction in wood, bioenergy or technology companies based on green carbon, such as Borregaard. Therefore, a green investment fund should also be established. In addition to investing in large-scale industrial travel based on green carbon, we also need to provide good conditions for the other industries, such as fish, aquaculture, the food industry and the process industry. The conversion of maritime industry and the yard industry to zero emissions in the fleet should be an example of follow-up. It is therefore reasonable to consider aid schemes for the process industry, too, for projects in the process industry that replace fossil inputs, as proposed by Red in one of its loose proposals today. The centre party will support that proposal, and we will also vote in favour of proposals No. 15, 16, 17 and 19, from Red. And with that, I'm also going to deal with that proposal the Center Party is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2520	The representative Ole André Myhrvold has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2525	Norway and the world face major challenges. We need to solve a climate crisis, we need to take care of nature, our basis of life, and we need to fight the increasing differences. We know that when the world is going to free itself from the use of fossil energy, we have to change. Norwegian oil and gas are a significant contributor to the challenges facing the world. We can't bet on a continuation of the oil adventure, we have to create new adventures. We need a green new deal. We need a green new deal, where the state uses its muscles to build the country green, to electrify the coast, to build new ships without emissions, to create new markets for industry and to dump resources into research and development and to build a new and modern infrastructure. A green new deal means to ensure that the gains from our resources and the new technology benefit the entire people. A green new deal means taking the earth and the sea into use. That's how we build the whole of Norway green. We also need to build Norway fairly. We're not going to solve the climate crisis by sending the bill to ordinary people and the profit to them at the top. We've shown in the past that we can make a change. From being one of the really big contaminants in the 1950s, 1960s and 1970s, Norwegian industry has taken a great deal of environmental responsibility and cut emissions of both pollutants and greenhouse gases. Today, the cuts made in the polluting industry are one of the largest sales arguments for Norwegian industry. There is no concealment that the requirements for emissions reductions in industry initially met strong resistance. But they quickly realized that the requirements were reasonable. The change in industry went through shows that if we want to. In the future, the proper use of our natural resources to create industry, secure jobs and ensure the well-being of the future is only more important and important. This is covered by the suggestions that SV also promotes in the setting. Over two decades, we have to replace our dependence on oil and emissions with a pollution-free economy based on renewable resources. The change must be fair and lead to improvement for people, local communities and the environment. So one explanation of vote: SV is going to vote in favour of proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party in the setting. We will also vote in favour of the proposals. 11, 13, 21 and 22.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2544	And the Haltbrecken wants to record SV's suggestions?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2549	So do I.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2554	The representative Lars Haltbrecken then addressed the SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2559	I open by asking the representative – and proposing – Bears Moxnes a question: Where is the sun? It's probably the only thing I don't find mentioned here in the big industrial revolution, and which is one of the great opportunities we actually have to build new industries, new jobs and new industries. So I miss the sun. The other industrial revolution that is not mentioned here, and which I really miss a bit in such a document – if one is going to have an ideological discussion about industrial revolution – is digitization, because that's the revolution the whole world is in, the enormous opportunities it gives us to both share more, consume less and make tasks more effective. I'm a little bit wondering what we're really invited to discuss here, and whether there's revolution in itself we're invited to discuss. I really don't want to discuss that, because it's not so often that it necessarily gives what we want to achieve. It kind of depends on the kind of revolution, of course. Plan economy could also be one discussion in this regard, to set it up against capitalism and the market. One could also draw it on: if one is a bit inspired by what China is doing, and seems to be effective and expanding a lot and is engaged in an industrial revolution, then part of that case is also a form of annexation of natural resources, of other people's land. I am also not so eager to take that discussion, as we have more than enough of the Chinese chess discussion at home. Everything else that is proposed here, we are working on: ocean wind, energy wells, hydrogen, bioeconomy. We're working on this like that. We put on for the instrumentation, for Enova, for the eco-technology system, have introduced the catapult system, innovation Norway gets bigger and bigger muscles, we do something with tax regulations and have established Nysnø. We're doing all these tasks, and it's probably also because a total mass rejects all the proposals from Red. Then a sort of debate starts with a lot of different windmills, where the red-greens don't exactly agree on the way forward. It's also an interesting discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2574	I'm a little excited about this debate, given the attitude that's taken from the committee. It is a joint committee which opposes the proposal on the basis of which Red has set the stage for a new industrial revolution. On the basis of the call for proposals here, we will discuss both revolutions and communism and the green shift and sea wind – as we discussed yesterday in an own proposal – industrial development and the EEA Agreement and cooperation on other elements in Europe. There is no doubt that there is a lot of political will for a lot of industrial investment and good interaction in order for us to achieve the climate objectives and a real green shift. Nor is there any doubt that quantum leaps have occurred both in political will, in reality, and in the transformation of business in recent years. It is a joint committee that opposes the proposal of revolution from Norway's only declared Communist Party. Nevertheless, it is a long list of individual proposals. Many of them are at home in a budget debate because it is about real budgetary priorities. Then maybe one should take it there and not as a summons decision. Major parts of the proposals are about areas where the government is already doing well, and where the support equipment has actually only been strengthened and strengthened in recent years. The closest thing that is a kind of real political debate here is about what is the policy's task. Red will have a revolution for the industries that they have picked out in the party office to win. Otherwise, the opposition does not want a revolution, but they say that there are some industries that have to go further than others. And then the position has a policy that says that we, as politicians, should create the framework and ensure the transition that is, and that it should happen to the actors who are going to make it a reality. For policy purposes, it is not a matter of determining how nutritionists should dance, but it is a matter of creating the dance floor on which they are going to do it. Business and business are the drivers of creating innovation and solutions that enable us to realize the green shift. ‘Climately’ has been a competitive advantage and, at the same time, there is a good interaction between policy objectives and a healthy social market economy. It's healthy and right in a democracy, and it's effective. We need a well-functioning and innovative business. I don't think we get through communist plan economy or socialist governance, and that's what this government rules well.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2589	The market will not solve the climate crisis. That's what you've seen in the last 30 years with all sorts of clarity. In a market, investment goes where it is most profitable in the short term, such as oil and gas, but we have to spend money building new industries before the oil price goes down. The reverse is the government: we're going to raise our oil investments by 20 pst. in 2019, and at the same time production in the mainland industry declines. Without a planned investment in new industries, we will lose both jobs, skills and knowledge that Norway is completely dependent on. We must have an active state industrial policy that builds new industries, while we control steps down oil and gas production. It does not happen without long-term state capital and political will to build new industry, as when in the 1970s we took control of the petroleum resources. The policy that guaranteed us a national supplier industry at the time can and must be used to build the green industry of the future, and there must be a fair transition. It's not the workers and communities that have built up the oil industry, that have to take the bill to phase out fossil energy. Those who work in Norwegian oil and gas are part of the climate solution, and we need them to build further – build new, green industry, like our bet on both liquid sea wind, deep geothermal energy and hydrogen. There had been no mainland industry in Norway without access to clean and cheap hydropower. Nor will there be any welfare state in the future if we are a pure commodity exporter. We can use the power to process metals and minerals, and we also have to process the timber and the fish at home. The Oil Fund shall benefit future generations. This must also be done by building industry and infrastructure for the future in Norway, and not just by having shares in Facebook or by owning British tradesmen. The state has the opportunity to be a long-term investor, for half a billion dollars in Nysnø are miles away from what is needed to convert Norwegian industry into the climate crisis. Historically, we have had an industrial revolution. I hope the bourgeois were not against it, just because it was a revolution. Now we need a new industrial revolution, this time fair and environmentally friendly. And with that, I take up Red's suggestion of just a new industrial revolution.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2604	The representative Bears Moxnes has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2609	In the 1970s, when the nation was busy dealing with our relatively new oil and gas wealth, and when among the repeaters of Norwegian policy there were increasingly clear signs that the state-initiated and controlled industrial policy was in the process of playing down, there were some – almost calling them hobbyists – in Trondelag and in the West that began experimenting with having salmon in cages under water, to say it a little simple. The sped trials became what is Norway's perhaps the largest new export adventure in the last decades, an industry that is today one of our very largest district industries, and one of our very largest export industries. I use it as an example simply because the whole political attention -- right, it was big things then -- was directed somewhere else. No one had decided to start experimenting with salmon in cages directly, but when we saw that there was potential here, as a country, we also built up an infrastructure around it, through research, through the education system, through support schemes and eventually through necessary and tightened regulations. How to define an active enterprise policy, rather than a revolution, of course you can discuss, but the starting point today is that we have a toolbox with a lot of tools in it. Norway has neither, nor is it going to, a so-called business-neutral policy, where we later appear to have no natural comparative advantage over others. At the same time, there is a balance, because if the state goes too far, if you try to set the market aside, you risk, as history has shown us, missing out on future winning industries, but also to bet on crazy technology and missing out on what really turns out to be the solution. There is a lot in the description and description of the Bears Moxnes and the representative proposal that I agree with, but not in terms of the medicine that is prescribed, even though I may be more sympathetic – I understand that the representative Moxnes has been thinking about the industrial revolution and not the revolution of some other regime or country. The problem is not just all the practical challenges of it; the problem is that there is a belief in an economic model of development that has not been proven to work. This is an experiment we've tried before. They've tried it in other countries. It hasn't worked. I am in favour of having high, ambitious climate targets, and I am in favour of using regulations to get the market where we want, but the plan economy is not going to solve any of the parts.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2622	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2628	At least it is good that the Council of State can read, at least, in contrast to some of my colleagues in the main hall. It's reassuring. I wonder a little bit about the government's oil policy. It's based on the fact that today we're building out fields that are going to be profitable in 50 years. If this gambler fails, e.g. by means of much higher carbon taxes – that is, if the climate policy of the United Nations, which we agree with, is actually successful – this could be massively unprofitable on the day the agreements and charges really come into effect. It will be harmful both for most people in Norway and not least for the environment. So I wonder how the Minister of Industry can defend an industrial policy based on the fact that we are going to have profitability in oil and gas fields in 50 years, when we are actually going to have zero emissions from these industries.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2637	It is completely independent of industrial policy that oil and gas industries are facing and in the middle, and are going to face difficult, major challenges and need to adapt to the sustainability objectives, the Paris Agreement objectives and our national ambitions. So to go straight to the point of the representative of the Moxnes: I think the problem of thinking about a kind of managed winding-up, rather than saying an end date for the Norwegian oil and gas industry, is not just that you hit very directly and immediately a lot of people. It is also a risk that the very capital, the knowledge, the competence that is the starting point for us to cope with a green transition will disappear from the country. We're not going to be able to say to an industry that they're not wanted in Norway, but then keep all the good things about the industry to use it for a green conversion. I'd like to elaborate on that, but now it's over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2644	It's the other way around. We can get a market-driven crash landing. We had a taste of it a few years ago when many people lost their jobs in oil and gas because the price dropped, and the price of oil and gas would go down sharply if the climate agreements actually started to work and get effect. Then there will be massive unprofitability with these fields in the future. The alternative is a planned conversion of the Norwegian economy, using the expertise currently available in the yard industry and in oil and gas workers, to build up new industries. They tell us that they like to build floating sea installations if they get assignments that give them jobs to do it. But then you also have to have someone who wants to bet on e.g.. liquid sea wind, which goes in for it with a long-term perspective. Unfortunately, there is the market too short-term, but the state could have gone in there, put really, given industry assignments in the future, and not least created new technologies and competences. It is, in my view, the alternative to a market-driven crash landing of this industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2651	Also with 2-degree targets and 1.5-degree targets, oil and gas are part of that energy mix, and Norwegian gas is also part of the solution for the green transition of Europe, not least because we have to phase out coal, which is climate change. But then the representative of the Moxnes plan, if you can call it it – or loosely collapsed points – bears the mark of being made at the desktop, among other things. by the representative talking about the oil and gas industry as if it were only those who were offshore. So this is an industry that is intimately linked to the entire Norwegian maritime industry. For example, the shipyards in Norway that develop zero-emission ships also deliver offshore. It is not that if that order were completely dried up or abandoned by political decisions, they would continue to be able to deliver all that green. Then you would tighten your legs on this conversion. There may be someone who says it to Red, but all the unions for the offshore employees say clearly: Do not wind up, do not see an end date.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2660	Here, I'm sure, Councillor Røe Isaksen will enter some open doors. We are fully aware that the supplier industry also delivers to the oil and gas industry and can also build so as to say what it should be. After all, we had had shipyards in Norway even before the age of oil and gas. Then, among other things, they built ships, for which we had good use. They can build large installations that can float far at sea in the future if there is capital that will invest in, for example: liquid sea wind. Now we're getting the largest offshore floating sea wind plant from Equinor, not off the Norwegian coast, but off the Spanish coast. We want us to go to the top of a Norwegian industrial adventure with the country in front, to make sure that Norwegian industry comes to the top of the world when it comes to delivering to this industry. That is the purpose of our proposal: that the state can go ahead where private people do not think long enough and are not willing to make enough capital available to ensure that the industry gets the opportunities it can get.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2667	If it's that moderate, I basically agree with that. I believe that it is absolutely necessary that the State is also inside, not only to correct market failures, but that the State is also inside Norway to build up in industries where we have special advantages. I also believe that when we have a food policy toolbox, which we're going to have, it's important to constantly re-evaluate the content of it to see if we can adapt, catch up and build up enough. What I'm skeptical about is – point one – if you try to put market forces all the way down. I believe that it has proved to be massively inefficient and leads to worse solutions. The second thing I'm skeptical about is when politicians go too far into either single industries or single businesses. So this government has strengthened almost all the tools we have to get a green shift, from the eco-innovation scheme to the new instrument Nysnøø to a doubling of industrial research and innovation since 2013, to mention something.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2676	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2683	We are at the end of the big year, and I would therefore like to thank the Energy and Environment Committee and Red for the cooperation in this session. It's also a small opportunity to look back. Almost all parties on the Stortinget believe that the climate crisis is the most important thing in our time, but therefore disagree on how and how fast we should and how fast we can solve the crisis. I believe that there are four areas in particular that distinguish us from environmental policy in the United Kingdom: that is oil policy, that is how active and how the role of the state should be, that is how much international cooperation we need, possibly how, and that is the view of environmental taxes. In the last two cases, the Greens and the Reds are fundamentally in disagreement, so we are also very far apart in climate and environmental policy. Because where Red says no to power cables abroad, the Greens will export clean energy to Europe to cut emissions. Where Red says no to environmental taxes because with poor advice they notice the fees more on the wallet than the rich, the Greens would rather solve that bias, among other things. by means of a fairer taxation of persons. We sincerely believe that not using environmental taxes for green conversion is completely unrealistic if we are actually going to be able to cut as much emissions as we have as much as we want to. If we demand that there be environmental policies to correct social inequalities created by unfair fiscal policies, housing policies and poor welfare systems, we are playing chess with the environment and climate change. No one should be poor in Norway. We in the Greens are therefore proposing in our alternative budget also more tax havens than Red for those with the lowest income. We want to strengthen social benefits for them by at least. We want to pursue an active urban housing policy and ensure cheap and good public transport across the country, while in our budgets we also spend less oil money than the government. Another difference between the Red Party and the Green Party is that Red will use the Oil Fund for investment in Norway. Just like the Progress Party, they challenge the rule of action, and we believe that this is deeply unaccountable financially. Instead, the Greens will use the oil fund for climate change in developing countries, as we have proposed at the Stortinget. Since the autumn of 2017, the Greens have promoted 29 proposals for representatives on the environment and climate, Red has promoted three. Of the three, one is about toll resistance in cities and one is about stopping the construction of foreign tables, and the third is what we are discussing here today, where there are some suggestions that it is easy to agree with. I say this so clearly because I have to admit that I think it has been very alarming that a new party at Stortinget today prioritises the climate and environment as low as the party Red has done. Nothing is more unfair, unsocial or destructive to community than climate crisis and natural crisis. Parties committed to solidarity, and not only Red, must recognise that solidarity today must apply across borders, generations and species.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2700	For the Workers' Party, it is extremely important that we use purely Norwegian force in the industrial further development that we are engaged in, and we have made a number of proposals here and in a number of other cases in order to make even greater use of clean hydropower for Norwegian industry, for power-producing, power-intensive industry. I would therefore like to add some comments to proposal No. 7, from the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, thereby giving an explanation of vote. Last year, during the discussion of the third energy market package, we reached a broad majority and a comprehensive agreement with the three then government parties, the Green Party and the Labour Party, which established many and important principles for Norwegian energy policy in the future, including: that ownership of the hydropower should be established, public ownership of the hydropower, that any decision on new foreignables should be taken sovereignly in Norway, that the Energy Act should be amended to ensure an absolute monopoly on ownership and operation of foreignables, old as well as new, that foreignables should be built only if they are socio-economically viable, and that thorough assessments and experience should be gained with the cables already planned before the construction of new cables. Moreover, the latter is fully in line with Statnet’s professional assessment, which says that further strengthening of the exchange capacity beyond it should last until we see how the already adopted increase will affect the Norwegian power system. This is an agreement we are proud of and happy to achieve, and on which we in the Workers' Party stand firm. This is an important policy for Norway, and we are pleased that this has been confirmed a number of times by our partners, among others. from the highest level of government. So in this case, there is a proposal from the Central Party and the Socialist Left that coincides with our view of one of the many things I have just mentioned. Our view is that this issue has already been properly addressed, but we still choose to vote in favour of this proposal, as it is natural for us to vote for what we are for and against what we are against. At the same time, I would like to remind you that the agreement we concluded last year is much wider and goes much deeper than this single proposal, and it is therefore very important that we have a reference with the other partners to it today. I would like to end by saying that it is very important for the government to return as soon as possible to the Storting with the changes in the energy law that a large majority voted in favour of last March. Additional deferrals at this point only create uncertainty about a matter that has already been clarified in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2715	It's, as many have said, a bit of a predestination about the title of a new industrial revolution, but industry based on Norwegian natural resources and workers with knowledge and high productivity is part of our history, of our welfare society, and it's also part of our future spring. I'll make that clear. I shall not prolong the debate, but I will just add a few words to proposal No. 10 and 12, which was in the Financial Committee. The size has just been legalized that the state pension fund abroad should be invested only in the rest of the world, but the return is used here at home. Every five dollars in the state budget comes from the return to the fund, and these revenues go, as everyone knows, among other things. to infrastructure such as railway and broadband. What is actually in the Red proposals here is a fund to avoid prioritizing the state budget. It would be nice to start the debate on who we are going to sell our goods to, and that we have to call about the EEA Agreement and take advantage of the space for action, but I think we can take another time.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2724	Finally, after what I have heard, Norway sold both oil, gas and even fish before the EEA Agreement, and as long as countries in Europe need Norwegian oil and gas, Norwegian fish and our metals, which are inputs to EU production life, they will probably have an interest in trading with us even if we leave the EEA Agreement. We believe that equiping Norway for the future also consists of having an environmentally friendly infrastructure, in having an environmentally friendly new industry. When private capital does not take long-term risks, the State should set up a small proportion of the oil fund to invest in new industries to equip us for the future. We must live on value creation in the future, not just of interest from the oil fund. That is the background to our proposal to use parts of the oil fund for such an important investment. That the Workers' Party is not for that, I think it is a pity, and that is probably contrary to that party's industrial policy history, I should think. With regard to the conditions for the Norwegian industry and not least the importance of the hydropower, it is that our industry will be hard pressed if the electricity prices increase. What we get with multiple export cables to the EU is also imports of a higher electricity price level, as we see in the EU. The electricity price now rises in the EU due to CO2 taxes and increased coal prices, but Norwegian power plants do not pay any CO2 tax or use a gram of coal. Prices are rising at home because we have become part of the EU electricity and energy market and follow the fluctuations there. Connecting us further to that market could in the future be the hook at the door of Norwegian industry, which depends on access to reasonable power from environmentally friendly Norwegian hydropower. That is the background for Red's no to Acer, our no to give the EU some control over Norwegian energy and therefore also industrial policy. That's also why LO, over 100 workers' party rapporteurs and a single left-hand side said no to ACER, in order to secure Norwegian energy and industrial policy for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2742	I would like to commend the proposer for raising industrial policy on the agenda. It's very important and really something we're discussing too little. However, I am not particularly enthusiastic about the proposals that are coming, very simply because we are either implementing them, or because they are bad proposals. Good framework conditions are important for Norwegian business, and they will be crucial and important in the future, in particular with a view to continuing globalisation. We see today that these are challenges. There are many who think protectionist, and I'm reasonably convinced that it won't take that long before you see challenges with it. Several of the suggestions are about thinking about ourselves, but we're going to be the only ones who do, because the foreigners are going to buy our goods. Conversion is important, but one should be quite absent if one does not see that there is a major change today. This government is adding to growth in both existing and new enterprises. We provide this through good framework conditions and by ensuring that business has access to capital, we provide growth-enhancing tax incentives, we build public infrastructure – especially on transport and road, where we have a committee that has been sitting here more or less continuously for two days – and we spend a lot of money on research and technology. What I want to draw up was a question from the representative Moxnes asked the minister, where he is so afraid that Norwegian petroleum industry will lose a lot of money in 50 years. And there are a lot of people who say that there is so much climate risk associated with the petroleum industry. I will not say that Norwegian petroleum industry today is primarily Norway's biggest contribution to the Paris Agreement, but there is a difference between losing money and making a little less money. Yes, it takes a long time today from a do-it-your-do-it-your-do-it-your-do-it-your-do-it-your-do-it-your-do-it-your-do-it-your-do-your-do-it-your-do-do-it-your-do-your-do-do-not-do-do-do, but when you start the extraction, luckily, the industry makes a very quick return to the field and the investment costs. That is why the government prioritises good framework conditions for this sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2753	The most useful explanation of this debate was in fact the settlement of Une Bastholm with Red, and that they are not entirely Siamese radical twins. There is a difference between the Red Party and the Green Party, which is also an estimated 90 pst. – I don't have the complete overview – together in the storeroom here. One can at least discover some small differences and that the Greens are willing to use the market and the economy more efficiently than Red with its planned economy. But I still have some questions for the representative of Moxnes. I wonder very much about that offshore wind farm outside the Canary Islands. They probably need renewable energy, but the big question for Norway is: Do we need that mainland energy in Norway? Is that why we're going to build it? Shall we electrify the base? Should we send the energy to the continent, just that we don't need a cable into Norway? Or are we actually going to have a cable inside Norway and shut down the energy that we don't need, to the continent, where Denmark is really the cashier of that energy? I wonder why it's going to land here, why it's better to build it in Norway, and why it's better to sell aluminium than renewable energy or knowledge of marine wind farms, digital solutions and ocean elements to the Canary Islands. Exports of knowledge and knowledge industries are as much as there are other types of industrial workplaces. So I don't quite get the logic of wanting that park to be built in Norway. Now there is also a good chance that a park or two will be built, but primarily to electrify the base, and that is a contribution. And then the question is, why can't we use the capital that Equinor already has, instead of creating our own completely new solutions and closing in money that way -- that we're using that money instead of taking off an oil fund that we've set aside for future generations. It is also a priority how a user already has government actors with good profits. There is a possibility that is completely absent in this discussion. When one is so planned-economic, it should be part of the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2764	The representative Bears Moxnes has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2769	An important part of the purpose of investing in liquid sea winds is to develop technology and expertise so that we can export it to the rest of the world and actually get an industrial venture based on it, and also contribute to climate change. With regard to the Green Party's input, Red does not solve welfare and tax policy exclusively through environmental policy. We have our own policy both for offensive welfare reforms and for redistribution through the tax system, which in fact brings the differences in Norway down clearly. In addition, we aim that everything we propose should be fair, so we get people with us to make the necessary adjustments – not against us. That is the background to our position in the debate on, among other things. tolls. We don't want to prevent people from being with us, but on the contrary, they're joining in on the transitions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2776	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2792	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2801	Through this Document 8 we are invited to discuss clarifications regarding scooter driving, also referred to the first paragraph of Section 5(c) of the regulation for the use of motorised vehicles in the field and on watercourses. First of all, I would like to thank the Committee for an unproblematic and flexible cooperation. I appreciate the good tone we have through the matters we discuss in committee context, even if we do not always fall on a consensus decision. This is a matter which has been discussed so far in Stortinget before, late last year. The background of the Document 8 proposal is a different practice both in the way the municipalities read the regulation and in the way they feel that the community interprets it. The starting point is that municipalities can authorise the use of snowmobiles for the transport of luggage and equipment between road and cabin at least 2.5 km from the broken road. The principle of equal treatment for the interpretation of such rules should apply. In order not to create undue unrest, a letter was sent to the statesmen on 3 July 2018 clarifying the understanding of the regulations. It's called this. att ‘municipalities have a discretion in the choice of measurement method to determine the distance between the cab and the broken highway. Municipalities are not bound to measure the distance in the airline. The essential factor for authorisation is whether the actual distance between the cab and the bridge is more than 2,5 km’. As this Document 8 was sent some time after the letter from the Department was sent, there may still be uncertainty as to how the regulation is to be understood. For this reason, a comment asks that the regulation be clarified so that it is clear that municipalities can use the shortest real distance between the cabin and the broken road when assessing applications for this service. With such precision, we hope that it will not be possible to interpret the regulation differently from that of topography when considering the distance. When it comes to scooter racing in the mountains, the range of options is wide-ranging. Someone wants the mountain to be at the absolute peace, while others have to use a motor vehicle for the cabin to be in use. What is important now is to see a dot for what is the starting point in this case – the interpretation of the first paragraph of Section 5(c).
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2817	It's a small matter we're now discussing, but it's important for those it applies, about the use of snowmobiles for cabins. Municipalities may authorise the use of snowmobiles when the cabin is 2.5 km from the broken road. In many places, over the years, municipalities have used judgement to assess how this is measured, because the country looks very different depending on where you are. 2,5 km can be measured in several different ways, and 2,5 km in the airline can be much more in actual operation. We know that the municipalities have practised this in a good and responsible way, but we are told that there are now several people who get alerts from the County about tightening up. The Labour Party is not a member of the liberalisation of practice, but we believe that what we are in favour of today is what has been in force for many years. Through the proposal we are promoting today, we will be involved in formalising this in order not to be unclear. We have previously noticed that representatives from the Progress Party and the Right in the newspapers have promised to clean up this at Stortinget, but not clear to do so when the matter has been dealt with. Once again, I just have to stress that we in the Workers' Party are not supporters of liberalisation, because it is bad for both people and the environment, but we believe that this is the practice that has been in force and that we believe should continue to apply. We wish it was unnecessary to promote this proposal, that this had only been solved by the government, but we see that it has not been done, and that is why we see it as necessary to promote it. With that, I address the proposal that the Labour Party and the Central Party have promoted in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2830	The representative of Åsmund Aukrust has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2835	I'll be brief. Municipal self-government is important for the Advance Party and for the Government. In this case, which we have dealt with before, the Council of State contacted the county council after the last treatment, to make sure that the municipalities had full clarity that they had an action room in the choice of measurement methods to determine distance, and to inform them that they were not bound to measure the distance in the airline. It is therefore fully possible to implement this today in accordance with the current legislation. To close the case and to make it clear that the municipalities can use the shortest possible distance between the cabin and the bridged road, we ask the government to change the regulation so that this becomes even clearer. And when the opportunity arises, I want to thank the Council of State for good cooperation in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2846	I have to say that I am a little surprised when I hear the last speaker say that the municipalities today have the opportunity to regulate this themselves. Let me give you some concrete examples. In the Salangen municipality, several of them have recently been deprived of their rights. Last year, when they were asked to renew their rights, the municipality was approved, but then the County came on the track and reversed the decision. The decision was appealed against to the Directorate, which again referred to the County. The reason for the refusal was that the airline from the broken highway to the cabin was less than 2.5 km, and that the regulation had been interpreted incorrectly by the municipality of Salangen. Yes, the airline was less than 2.5 km, but it was impossible to arrive at wintertime, with steep and icy mountains. With respect to reporting, it's going to be foolish for us down here to sit and make rules like this. What kind of basis does the Directorate or the Council of State have for assessing the geography and topography of each municipality? There is nothing but bureaucratic and an overrun of local democracy. This should give the municipalities responsibility for alone instead of sitting in Oslo and forbid families to drive with snowmobiles to the cabin. For the country as a whole, this is probably not a matter of great value and great focus. If, on the other hand, it had been a matter of tightening up boating in the archipelago, it would probably have created a great uprising. But for North Norway and other parts of District Norway, this matter affects the quality of life of a large number of people. With topography and tradition of scattered cabin construction, this means a major intervention in quality of life and a reduction in public health through the unavailability of established family cabins and associated outdoor activities. The main objective of the proposal from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party is to provide local government to the municipalities at this point. Then it is the municipalities that have first knowledge of the overall environmental impact in the different local areas. This is also in line with the government's signals about more local authority rights for municipalities, and it is not least in line with the government's intention that municipalities should have more tasks. This is not about a free slip of scooter driving, it's about utility driving to your own cabin. It's about common sense. That is why I am disappointed that the Progress Party and the Right today are spiteful of their local politicians in North Norway and vote against the proposal of the Labour Party and the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2861	Today's legislation ensures that the cabin owners who have a distance between the cab and the broken highway that is in fact more than 2.5 km can apply for the use of snowmobiles for the transport of goods to the cabin. On 7 May the Minister for Climate and Environment came with a letter to the Stortinget, where he wrote the following: ‘In other words, there is no doubt that, within the framework laid down by the legislation, municipalities can use discretion when measuring the distance and that actual driving distance and topography are of importance for whether the municipality is authorised to grant authorisation. I therefore consider that it is neither desirable nor necessary to amend the text of the first paragraph of Section 5(c).’ This is a letter from the government parties, including the Left, in total disregarding the setting of the case. Note what the government's climate and environment minister writes in the letter. He writes that it is neither desirable nor necessary to change the regulation we are discussing today. Therefore, it is quite strange that the government parties cast doubt on the home of the municipalities today, by asking the government to amend §5c against the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment's own wish and recommendation. I think it is extra strange that the Left too wants to go against its own climate and environment minister in this matter. I would like to have a reason from the Left for why they choose to ignore the advice of their own minister, and whether this is a new practice the party will put on. As the matter stands now, only SV supports what the Minister for Climate and Environment believes. It is a pity that the Council of State does not even receive support from its own party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2877	According to the regulations for the use of motor vehicles in outland and on ice watercourses, cabin owners may be allowed to use snowmobiles to carry baggage and equipment to the cabin when there is more than 2,5 km between the cabin and the broken road. Proposals want the distance requirement to be amended in order to give municipalities the power to exercise discretion when measuring the 2.5 km limit and to take into account the actual running distance and topography as being heavier than the distance measured in the airline. I fully agree that the municipality should be able to take into account what is the real length of the line of the cabin, when they receive an application for the use of snowmobiles. Nor is there anything in the legislation that prevents this from happening. I have explained earlier to Stortinget, also in a letter to the county officials last year, that the municipalities have the opportunity to use discretion when measuring the distance between the cabin and the broken road. Of course, it is reasonable for the municipality to take account of the shortest actual trajectory between the cabin and the road. So today's legislation allows municipalities to apply judgement in measuring the distance requirement. Although there is room for discretion when measuring this distance, this does not mean that municipalities can grant permission where the shortest path that is practicable to use is actually less than 2.5 km. Authorisation granted on the basis of such discretion would be contrary to the law. The proposers have stated that several municipalities have been criticised by the County because they have a too liberal practice in measuring the distance to the cabin, and that several tenants who have been exempt from scooter driving for a number of years have now been refused. I do not know the specific cases proposed by the proposers, but on a general basis, I would like to point out that the county officials are responsible for checking that the practices of the municipalities in the motorcycling field are in conformity with the Motor Travel Act. In cases where the County of County finds that the municipalities have taken decisions contrary to the law, it is the responsibility of the State of County to repeal the municipality's decision. Although I've explained several times that, according to today's rules, there is the possibility to use the shortest real distance when assessing the distance requirement, this question is still emerging, because we also had the same discussion in the committee last year. I therefore see that it makes sense to clarify the wording as proposed by the government parties, so that there should be no doubt about this, even if it does not involve any change in reality. Finally, for the sake of order, I would like to remind you that the distance requirement is one of several elements that the municipalities should or may include in their assessment of applications for snowmobile transport for cabin. In areas where rental is possible, this shall be preferred. In addition, municipalities may also take other considerations into account in the evaluation of an application for cabin transport. Municipalities are not obliged to make an application even if the distance between the cabin and the broken road is more than 2,5 km.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2896	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2901	I was very happy when I saw that the government parties were out in the media and said that they supported this proposal, but unfortunately I see that they intend to vote against this today, and that the Council of State now says that he will make a regulatory change. On the autumn winter of last year, I made a proposal to use the electric motor on less water. Then the government parties were also out there and boasted of the proposal and said that it was a very good proposal, as they supported, and the Council of State was going to fix this soon, with a regulation change – yes, without undue delay, the council of state said in the hall, but he almost regretted that he did not make it until the summer of 2018. Now I have asked when this is coming, and then I am told that it will take a very long time, for this is going to go to the hearing, the matter has not been sent out yet, etc. So it's clear that what you don't want to implement, it's about to postpone. I am very afraid that this matter will also be the victim of the Council's training exercise. Therefore, I would like the Council of State to confirm: When will this regulation be in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2913	I didn't say there's going to be any regulatory change, but it's going to be a clarification. The reason for this is that what the proposer proposes – that municipalities should be able to exercise discretion – is part of the law today. There is no need for any regulatory change. This is clarified in letters to the statesmen last year, and I have also repeated it for the committee – as I wrote it last year and this year. Here's a note from the government parties that want clarification, not a change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2918	In the electric motor case, the Council of State stood here on the speaker's chair and said that amendment of the law was unnecessary – this could be done quickly with a change of regulations. We see what that training has done. Now we're inside the second season without it being completed. With regard to this, I have to ask: what does the Council of State think that all the government parties in the form of a note say that there has to be a clarification of the regulations for this? It has been experienced around the country that, after a signal from the department, the county officials now say no to driving permits for many cabin owners who have had a driving permit for the same cabin for both 10, 15 and 20 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2923	Two things: one is that there is no disagreement that municipalities can exercise discretion. It's part of today's legislation, and it's specified time and time again. It's just the Center Party that insists that this isn't the case. It's hard for me to change. But it's also the case that we have a code. Yes, you can exercise discretion, but it is still a piece of legislation that has to be followed by the municipalities and that the county officials are of course looking at.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2930	I am surprised when I hear the council say that this is not a problem today, because yesterday I spoke to a number of tenants in the municipality of Salangen who had been authorised by the municipality, but the county council has converted the decision, and the directorate has agreed. The reason is that the cabin in the airline is less than 2.5 km from the broken road to the cabin. It's impossible to get on the cabin with the line that's measured up in the airline, and the real driving distance is 2.6 km. Does the Council of State not see that the municipalities today have a much better assessment capacity than that of the Council of State, the Directorate and the County Council to decide on these kinds of issues?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2937	It is completely impossible for me to comment on the description of a single case and a simple rejection. It is possible for municipalities to exercise judgement today on what is the shortest distance. They may make judgements other than that there shall be 2,5 km in the airline. This has been prepared for County, and it has been prepared for Stortinget. But it's actually so that even if a user uses a different assessment, the assessment can still be that it's more than 2.5 km. If it is in the case in question, it is impossible for me to say.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2942	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2949	With respect to reporting, we have now asked for clarification and clarification through a note, so that in the future you can avoid different handling, as shown here. So maybe the Center Party and the Labour Party should be glad that we're now clearing out the missing match of the road. So to SV: What we're asking for now is how the regulation is supposed to understand. Therefore, there is no practical change, and there is no reason to doubt the realities.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2956	I felt the need to take the floor on this matter in order to express satisfaction with the fact that this clarification has now been made, which means that we get this into the regulation, and to give praise to the Council of State for the letter sent last year to the statesmen. Many suggest that there have been different practices out there, and that letter I believe has actually led to a tightening of what has been practiced after that time. When we get a clear promise today that we should also include this in the regulation, I believe that today we are involved in clearing up all the doubts – perhaps the unnecessary doubts – that have been raised in the matter. Then I think it's worth reflecting a little bit about what I'm experiencing as a little bit strange, designed problem issue from the Center Party on this matter. When you're so clear, and when you clean it up like that, you should rather, like others, be glad that you now have this consensus. And then you can think a little bit about the paradox that is, that it's really the Center Party that has turned around in this case. When the bill was under consideration in 2015, the then government parties had some majority comments together with the Center Party. But there was one note that the centre party could not attend, and it was a further decoration of the 2.5 km requirement down to 0.5 km. I know there were long political discussions at the time. You tried a compromise with just taking Nord-Troms and Finnmark. But even so, you wouldn't be on the Senter Party side. So the comment became a minority comment. There was one thing that you couldn't include in the proposition at that time, and you're where you are today. But now you have at least the opportunity to clean up the 2.5 km rule. So it's strange that there's other issues here, like the representative, Mr. Greni, about the electric engine case. It's something completely different. That requires a change in the law. It has also been found in the answer given by the Council of State to the Stortingen in that matter. Here it seems as if you're trying to create the impression of a conflict where we now really have a broad consensus. It's very happy, because that means we're just getting the precision that makes you get that practice out of the county, and that makes it possible to get a more flexible treatment of the upcoming applications from the various snowmobiles that are going up to the cabin and celebrate Easter with a lot in the luggage.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2965	If you're going to start talking about what was done in the past, and who voted what, then you might ask why today's right does not vote for a proposal they were just four years ago. This is not a designed issue. I can encourage the representative Gudmundsen to be with me to the municipality of Salangen and meet the cabin owners who have been withdrawn the permit that they have had for over 15 years. I also notice that the government parties believe that they have won an important victory with a majority in this case. But when you can go for such a comment, why can't you support the proposal of the Central Party? I very much hope that the comment will be taken up by the Council of State Elvesuen the minute after we have finished this debate in the Chamber. But the fact is that there are no proposals that today bind the Council of State to do anything. I can take another example that we are going to discuss in the matter after today: Three years ago, the government parties believed that, through a majority comment, predatory policies had now been implemented in order to obtain a trial project for the extraction of the king eagle in Troms and on Fosen. Well, that note looks government council Elvesuen to have forgotten, or he's put it at the bottom of his office drawer. It's been three years – nothing has happened. The fact that the government parties here are trying to make this comment in this case as a saying is just words. It does not oblige the Council of State to do anything. We all know the views of the Left in this matter, and I doubt that it will be a priority matter for the Council of State and the Department. There has been a great commitment from many in this matter. Many statements have been made by county councils, municipalities, rapporteurs and regional councils, in all party colours, calling for the removal of the 2.5 km rule and the exercise of local maritime rights. I wonder why you should sit down here in Oslo and judge and decide, and that people shouldn't be allowed to drive to the cabin, as they've been doing for a year. It just makes me despair, despaired on behalf of the cabin owners – the families who are now sitting at home and not getting used cabin say in winter time because it is not possible to get there without scooters. This testifies to a bureaucracy about to emerge. There is evidence that the Directorate and the Council of State should get out and see how the geography and topography of this country are. I have expressed it earlier today, but I am disappointed that the Progress Party and the Right are being instructed by a party of 4.4 p.m., because the reality is that there is actually a majority for this matter in the Chamber today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2974	It's really pretty amazing to listen to Sandra Borch, because here you try to ride two horses: you stand here on the pulpit and make the impression that you want to remove 2.5 kilometers, but you voted against it when we had the law of treatment in the hall. And then you're going to agree to actually change, exactly what's in the proposal for a representative of 2.5 km, that it's included in the regulation – actually what's in the proposal from the Central Party. We're government parties. We hear that the Council of State is standing here and saying that this work should be started. What is the representative Sandra Borch not bringing? This is not a newspaper post. We are in the main hall, we have a case for treatment, we have a government council that has been here and gave a clear message about how he will follow up this proposal for a representative. Then I think it is with respect to report that you should rather deal with what is being said, and I was pleased that you now have that agreement. Because what you're doing here is actually trying to twist the facts, and I have a very little sense of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2981	This is a matter where everyone agrees, and yet it seems that there is a great disagreement. The boundaries of the municipality can now be exercised, there is no need for any clarification, but I do. But it doesn't change the content of the law, as it's to be done, and it's clarified and clarified to the statesmen after the discussion in this hall last year, and it's also clarified this year. Although discretion can be exercised, there is still a code that is based on 2.5 km, because I feel that the post of the representative of the Central Party is really about removing the 2.5 km code. But that is not what is in the proposal that we are now discussing. If that's what you want, it's a big change from today's legislation, which goes far beyond the fact that municipalities can only exercise the sense of how to practice the 2.5 km rule. They have that possibility today, it is to be maintained, but I should also further clarify, in line with the observation of the majority, the comments of the government parties, the existing legislation once again. Then we'll see if it makes this case not coming up again, or if it comes again.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2989	The representative Sandra Borch has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e2994	What we're responding to here is that the Council of State says there's no real change. You want a clarification, and I hope that with that clarification, the cabin owners who have been refused today will be allowed to drive the scooter to the cabin again. I have told the representative Gudmundsen earlier that when I see a change in the legislation, I will invite him to the cake, and I will also take the Council of State, and we can take a scooter ride to our cabin in the municipality of Salangen. But I hope that clarification will be taken immediately after this debate is over today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e3001	The representative Kent Gudmundsen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e3006	Then I look forward to cake. I'm very happy in marzipan, if I can put in a wish. I think that for those who have now received a refusal because they have probably been misappropriating the application, they will have the opportunity to complain, as they have both sent out a letter and there will soon be a change of regulations. With that, it's just to rejoice that you have a broad consensus on this matter, and then you can reflect on the fact that the Center Party voted against when the law was being treated, what was really the intention when Sandra Borch was in the pulpit here and had posts, namely, to remove 2.5 km. But sometimes it is that there is a long way between words and action from the Center Party – also in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e3015	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e3031	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e3040	Thank you to the Committee for a good cooperation. A wide setting is currently being submitted. The reason is that Norwegian predator management is based on the two-part objective of Norwegian predator policy: responsible management for the large predators, while taking into account grazing. In practice, this means that Norway is seeking to manage predatory strains at a minimum level, because without it much of the objective would be impossible to achieve. In other words, the size has, knowingly and willfully, put on a balance sheet which must take place every year. The Committee points out in the case-law that they are not in conflict with the Centre Party that the concerns of the agricultural industry are important, nor does it disagree that predatory policies must be continually assessed against the two-part objective. It is our responsibility as a national parliament to balance care and actually take our share of the responsibility for predators in our part of the world. At the same time, it is our responsibility to facilitate agriculture and traditional grazing industries, which constitute valuable value creation and good use of land resources. The management of predators, like all other natural resources, must be knowledge-based, and the management of endangered species must be particularly careful to make assessments on a case-by-case basis, based on the two-part objective of Norwegian predator policy. Therefore, the handling of claims for harm also needs to be speedy, so that some defensive withdrawals can be carried out without undue delay, and that the damage to grazing animals is avoided to the greatest extent possible. The operational and dynamic nature of the management is a provision for the enforcement of the predatory settlement. I am pleased that we in Norway have a good system for monitoring, damage documentation and quick handling. Since the elections, we have had several representatives from the Centre Party – about one in each session – on predatory policy. The proposals have been rejected by large parts of Stortinget. Sometimes the Labour Party has supported some of the suggestions and written with them. In fact, we are now dealing with the Central Party alone on the proposals they have made. In the debates we have had on several of these proposals – as the proposal No. Three-six, as the election has taken place in the past – not the biggest gap has been in the main hall, but between parts of the opposition, where the debate has largely been marked by a sharp tone between the Centre Party and the SV. It may have a bearing on the government's direction of the two-part goal, on the predatory settlement and on the leadership that the Stortinget has seen through later conciliation, and it is firm.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e3053	Discussions on predators may be demanding because they are to be dealt with in part by conflicting considerations. The Labour Party fully supports the two-part objective of having both a viable predatory wildlife population, in line with our international commitments, and of taking care of agriculture and grazing, and of ensuring widespread housing. We believe it has been a very strong force for Norway that we have managed to gather on predatory settlements that have given predictability to people and that have the ambition to calm down the debates. But then it is the government's responsibility to follow it up, and there we have been partly critical of how the government has followed up the policy of the Storting and provided predictability for people. Just because we are concerned with predictability, we have a very high threshold to address various representative proposals in predatory policy. We believe it serves both the different interests of the two-part objective that policy should be predictable and stable. That is why we are voting against the proposals that the Central Party has made in this matter. On the other hand, we have our own proposal on the king eagle, asking for pilot projects to be launched in the Troms and Trøndelag areas, and for this to be done in the course of the year. Initially, this should be an unnecessary matter to promote, for it is almost three years since the Stortinget asked for it. In a representative proposal from the Central Party in May 2016, the bulk of the population, then composed of the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party, writes: ‘the Government also requests the launch of a pilot scheme for the administration of the royal eagle in the framework of the robberies settlement. [[...]] A scheme is limited to areas in the Fosen peninsula and in the Troms, where the royal eagle is on occasion a major challenge for grazing animals. Such a pilot scheme will contribute to valuable knowledge of administrative practices.’.» This really fits into the range of policies that the Storting asks for, but that the government does not follow up. The special thing is that the government parties ask for it themselves, and that their own government councils have not followed up what the Stortinget asked for in 2016. The council writes in a letter to Stortinget now that he will work to implement it. Well, three years have gone by, and we have to expect that the Greatness's will is followed up by the government. That is why we are promoting this proposal that it should be done in the course of the year, and we hope that such a pilot project will provide us with valuable knowledge for further work on and follow-up to the predatory settlement. By doing so, I take up the proposal from the Labour Party, which is behind this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e3069	The representative of Åsmund Aukrust has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e3074	Pest management in Norway is important. It means a lot to those who are affected. We are in a situation where there may be grounds for clarifying the management. We have a two-part objective of predatory wildlife policy in Norway, and it is a large majority who want to pursue a policy that takes care of both grazing animals and predators. We need a responsible administration that takes care of the interests of the grazing industries and keeps the predatory game to a minimum. The size has adopted broad agreements, and it is important that they are followed up well. We see that it is not all the decisions that are equally well received by the grazing industries, and it is very important that the parties have a view that the Storting decision is being followed up. Low level of conflict, good processes and good dialogue between the parties involved are prerequisites for success. Here you can see that some people have an improvement potential. The Court of Auditors recently presented a report on the management of wild game, which shows that, even if the management functions well, there are some points and recommendations that should be followed up by the authorities. It's a work that I expect to get started immediately. Administrative zones, regional breakdowns, common stock targets and the efficiency of harmful traps are all areas with potential for improvement. We have a regional management model in which predators are given a primary responsibility. The main task of the subjects is to design and establish management plans where there shall be a low threshold for the felling of predators in grazing priority areas. It is important for the Ministry to provide the necessary clarifications when disagreements arise between predators and environmental authorities. The knowledge we have today about the predatory wildlife populations is good. Much resources are used for monitoring and damage documentation, which is essential for maximising the follow-up of causes of loss of grazing animals and the effectiveness of preventive and conflict mitigation measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e3089	The wild game deal is broken and not followed up on a number of points. This is not the word of the Center Party. This has been concluded by both the Food Authority and the National Audit Office. The situation of grazing industries is serious in several places in the country. Several have experienced severe losses to predators in recent years and experience that the system around killing is slow and inefficient. The breeding agreement on predators was intended to facilitate a clear zoning, and to ensure that the harvesting of predators in pasture-prioritised areas would take place quickly and efficiently. Where does most of the losses of predators happen today? That's just happening in grazing priority areas. The Food Authority’s report makes it clear that this is a clear breach of the agreement. The report by the Food Authority also points out that the annual license hunt for bear and yerv does not work. After six years of experience, it has not been possible to take out the allowances that have been set. This is not a matter for the Council of State. This is an assigned task to be carried out. Today, predatory policies are to be based on a two-fold objective where both grazing and predatory animals are to be maintained in different specific zones. I don't take it very seriously if I say that the overall two-part objective is not followed in the grazing priority areas. Year after year we see great attacks by both youives, bears and wolves. It bears witness to a government and a government council that shows little willingness to give priority to the grazing animals. When the Riksrevision and the Food Authority conclude immediately, this is not an exaggeration from the Center Party, as some parties here claim. Sami reindeer management is strongly affected by current predatory policies. Especially the queen eagle is a problem. In this respect, I have a question for the government parties, in particular the Advance Party and the Right. In 2016, the Right and Advance Party stood and cheered because, in the form of a note, they had agreed to launch a test project for the extraction of the king eagle in Troms and Fosen. What's happened? No things of the world! Once again, we see a government council that is not willing to do anything for the grazing industries. That this should be so difficult, so bureaucratic and so little practical, is hard to understand. On the other hand, a significant bureaucracy is gradually what characterises the predatory game management here to land with this government. The overall picture that emerges is that today predatory game management takes too little account of the community and business community concerned, creating particularly great challenges for grazing industries. In order to be able to follow up the intention of the predatory game agreement on a two-part objective and the harvesting of predators in priority pastures, measures are necessary to be able to extract predators that cause harm. It must also be possible to do so quickly and efficiently. I'll bring this up with the Senter Party's proposal in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e3108	The representative Sandra Borch has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e3113	Norwegian predator management is based on the dual objective: responsible management of the large predators and taking into account the grazing industries. This is something most – not all – the games on the Stortinget are occupied with and about which the government and government parties are concerned. Robbery policy is based on broad agreements, and that is a good thing. This is an area of some conflicts, and we are served with the lowest level of conflict possible. The proposals we are considering today are identical to those that have been promoted and dealt with earlier in the Grand Duchy. If the Senter Party had done anything other than propose autopilot, they would have noticed all that is happening in predatory policy: The treatment of claims for damages is agreed upon in a timely manner. We need operational and dynamic management. It is now working for an even clearer zone management. Proposals sent out at the hearing give the names greater scope for action and responsibility. A low threshold is also important to allow the killing of predators in priority pastures. It also needs to be made more effective, including: through new instruments, such as the use of loose, on incubated dogs, compensation for municipal killings and increased professionalisation of municipal killings. There's a lot going on in the predatory field, and, as I said, if anything had come from the Center Party other than just suggestions on autopilot, they would also have got it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e3135	The world is facing a very demanding situation with a loss of natural diversity. The International Natural Panel, IPBES, recently presented a report that presents a serious picture of the state and evolution of the world's natural diversity. As much as one million of the world's estimated eight million species are threatened by extinction. In parallel with this, the Centre Party promotes a number of proposals in Stortinget, such as: include standing killing permits in pasture priority areas. That is, you can trap without any further consideration. I would like to remind you that the four major predatory species – bear, yerv, wolf and gaupe – are all classified as critical or highly endangered on the Norwegian red list for species. This condition will continue to exist as long as they remain on the stock targets adopted by the Stortinget. Of the five species that are part of what we in everyday terms call predatory game management, only queens are not classified as threatened. However, like wolf, bear and yerv, the king eagle is a protected species in Norway and is protected according to the strictest category for species under the Berne Convention. The starting point is that we have predatory animal management in Norway where the population is kept at a low level for grazing purposes and the two-part objective. I believe it is important to have this perspective in the game management. In the case of small populations, a thorough and continuous assessment of the condition of the populations is always required, the need for bottling in order to avoid loss of pastures and the existence of satisfactory solutions other than bottling. The starting point under Norwegian law and Norway’s international obligations is that several conditions are to be fulfilled before the derogation provided for in the Nature Diversity Act and the Berne Convention on bottling applies. The Centre Party also proposes that all local felling species should be able to apply the same methods as those used by the State's natural resources. I strongly advise against this. The State nature oversight has the professional competence to assess in which cases the individual instruments and methods will increase the efficiency of the killing experiment, and assess ethical and safety aspects thereof. There are also major budgetary implications of this proposal. I believe a more constructive approach is that, based on professional assessments and experience, a guide is developed for the most effective and professional implementation of injury traps. A first version of the guide will be published in a short time. In addition, local precipitation teams may request the assistance of the State's natural supervision. The Government has strengthened the State's nature oversight in 2019 in order to provide further and simultaneous assistance to such felling species. I believe that the proposals of the Central Party, which are largely about removing all previous assessments before predatory joint, are not appropriate for species that are threatened and/or at peace. I am therefore pleased that the Committee insists that the proposals of the Central Party should not be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e3150	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e3156	Governments have recently sent out a package of changes to the game management at the hearing. The package includes, inter alia: cut in the number of predatory game regions. The way in which a predatory decision is to function is also described as a proposal. The predatory wildlife subjects were part of the infested game settlement in 2011 and provided clear leadership for the organisation and purpose of local predators. The fact that the Council of State is now proposing such a significant change as halving the number of subjects is not surprising. The less he gets to disagree with. But my question is, are these changes that have now been sent to the hearing to be dealt with in the Storting, and when will this happen, if any?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e3165	Now it's going to be a hearing. This is based on an evaluation, and it is not about you getting a weakening of the predators. The pollinators are absolutely crucial in Norwegian predator management. I believe that they will be more effective by allowing them to look at larger areas at the same time, that they can also look at populations beyond the responsibilities of predators. This will provide better management, and it will also provide a basis for clearer and better management plans based on the two-part objective. That's right, it's in Stortinget, and I'll come back to Stortinget to take this up again in an appropriate way once the hearing is completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e3174	I hear what the council says. I expect and expect that when such a major change from the 2011 Robbery Agreement is made, it will be dealt with in Stortinget. But I want to follow up on the matter of royal eagles. In 2016, the Right and Advance Party stood here in the Chamber and cheered because they had received a majority comment that a pilot project was to be launched with the withdrawal of the king eagle in Troms and on Fosen. Absolutely nothing has happened in this case. Now both rapporteurs and statesmen are calling for action. I wonder why the Council of State has not followed up this decision and set in motion the pilot projects that were adopted or which, in the form of a note, were said to be done three years ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e3181	It is important to clarify that the proposals, which were similar, were not adopted. That is the comment of the Committee on Energy and the Environment on the proposal that is there. So this is a proposal that has not been examined in advance, a request decision from the Stortinget, and I believe that if you are to do this, you need a thorough investigation of it. A consultation on regulatory changes has now been carried out. There is also a research project on the relationship between eagle and sheep on the Fosen. It has taken longer to get it going in Troms, on eagles and on reindeer, because it has not been easy to work together with the reindeer in Troms. Now it seems that we're able to get it in place, also to get a research project in Troms.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e3188	The Council of State began its intervention in talking about the critical threat to biodiversity in the world. He indicated that one million out of eight million species in the world are critically threatened. In Norway, we have 685 species on the red list, which are endangered by re-growth. Of course, predators are a cause for restocking when pasture can no longer be used because farmers have to lay down. Within the wolf zone, for example: barely again a single sheep, which also explains why the loss of sheep has gone down there. Then my question to the Council of State is: Isn't the Council of State concerned about the 685 species of plants and insects that are endangered by re-growth, something for which the wolf, the yew, the gupa and the bear are a cause?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e3197	Yes, I'm worried about the cultural landscape, but I don't think it's the predators that are responsible for the re-growth. We have a lot of measures to combat re-growth, including through farming, which has a lot of environmental measures both last year and this year. We've increased the number of selected cultural landscapes; now it's 44 so far this year. We also have projects to see if we can make more use of the close cultural landscapes, which are, to a large extent, those that are reclaimed, to use them more as pasture in the future. There are many measures to be taken to preserve cultural landscapes and the species that are there. I see no contrast between that and caring for the big predators.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e3202	No one has claimed that predators are the only threat to the cessation of grazing and restocking, but it is a threat. A head of science and research from NIBIO has said it this way: ‘Pets lead to minor grazing. Minor grazing leads to regrowning. Recycling is a threat to the cultural diversity of species.» My question is: is the knowledge base sufficient to make sure that there is no risk of predators threatening these species due to re-growth?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e3212	Yeah, I don't have any knowledge to make sure that's it. It is also absolutely fundamental in the two-part objective that we have the grazing priority areas, where there should be a lower threshold for withdrawals, and then we have the predatory game priority areas, where there is a higher threshold. There will be completely different and much more precise measures that are necessary for species conservation, if that is the information that emerges, and we have the means to do so. We have just received a case from the Environment Directorate on how to take care of the most critically vulnerable natures and species, including where we need additional protection. The area that has the largest share of red-listed species is forest, so 10 pst. forest protection is something we work systematically to care for.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e3219	That's now 55 pst. of Norway’s land area is predatory priority area and, as the Council of State is aware, many predators also leave the predatory priority area. For example, in Rendalen last year there was a wolf attack outside the wolf zone. This has led to more farmers shutting down sheep farming after last year's wolf season, as we've seen for years, as a consequence of predators. As I see it, there is obviously a risk that predators lead to regrowth, which in turn leads to loss of biodiversity. So the council says we don't have knowledge that gives him reason to believe it, but do we have enough knowledge of it at all? Can the Council of State be sure that there is no risk, or he believes that we need more knowledge about the causal link between the wolf and the loss of 29 pst. of the species on the red list?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e3226	I think it's not a connection. When we're going to take care of cultural landscapes, we need an active policy to do that. It is also a fact that the loss of sheep to predators goes down while we have more sheep on pasture in Norway now than we had a few years ago. It is not that there are smaller grazing animals in Norwegian nature now than it has been in the past. In order to ensure diversity of species, we need to base it on knowledge of the individual nature and the actions we need to take to ensure it. We need to use the professional environments we have, both in the Art Database and in the Environment Directorate, and follow the recommendations we get from them.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e3233	The practical everyday life out there is that it is very difficult to take care of pastures and crops that are growing again, when you cannot have grazing animals there because of predators. What kind of action does the Council of State intend to take in areas where grazing is impossible in order to preserve the cultural land? Do you have to beat it like a lawn? It will be extremely resource-intensive and is something that is certainly not being done today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e3239	It's like I'm saying, we've increased what's going to take care of the selected cultural landscapes. We now have agri-environmental measures. We're looking at whether it's possible to use the close pastures more. We have strengthened the preventive FKT funds by 10 million. kr this year, also in order to have a smaller conflict, and even if, as was pointed out, it is farms which have asked for support for the conversion of operations, it is indeed conversion and not closure.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e3244	That's the line change. The President will remind you that when there is a change of line, you have to titulate the President, and you have to wait until you get the floor before you take it. It's not New Year's Eve 18 we're doing here. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e3253	As the majority of the Committee writes in its comments, Norwegian predatory policy is based on broad settlements in Stortinget. The challenge is that the objectives of the agreement have not been achieved, or that the agreement has been broken – it has now been established by both the Food Authority and the National Audit Office. Then it is strange that the bulk of the population does not choose to go into any of the proposals of the Centre Party for more efficient game management. It's not about the Senter party going on autopilot in predatory policy, it's about a reality orientation to the landscape we see around us. It would have been an advantage if the majority of the committee had also taken over. The majority of the Committee points to what they consider to be more effective in recent years. With respect to reporting: it notices those who have predators close, little more. Expensive time is often lost through a forward-looking bureaucratic treatment prior to the granting of a breeding permit. What we need are standing killing permits in case of injury. It will save time and ensure that the killing can be carried out more efficiently and without prior bureaucratic treatment. The Food Safety Authority’s report points to several points that show that the agreement has not been met. One point points out that municipalities should establish well-schooled, local precincts where appropriate. Last summer, several bears in the region of Mid-Norway, with damage situations from early summer to late harvest, were granted a civil protection permit, without being able to do anything with the pests. The conclusion of the Food Safety Authority is the same as that of the Centre Party and with which the majority of the population could do something today by supporting our proposals, namely that the damage trap is not effective enough. So it's not about autopilot, it's about reality orientation. We see the same thing in the region of Stor-Oslo, where the compensation for damage caused to wolves last year was granted for five different periods during the grazing season. Nor were the attempts to trap pests successfully here. This shows that policy and instruments are not effective enough. It is not useful to hide behind remarks that policy is based on broad settlements, when the comparisons are not followed up. It has now been decided by both the Food Authority and, not least, the National Audit Office's report. What's needed is to start taking the problem seriously, get into it and figure out how to actually fulfill what you're agreeing to. Farming animals, both inside and outside the so-called wolf zone, is becoming increasingly difficult because management is not good enough. In Eastfold, for example, there are now No longer means of conflict reduction, following clear guidance from the Environment Directorate – I know that it also applies to Oslo and Akershus, as well as Oppland – if conflict mitigation measures contribute to increasing the number of grazing animals. New establishment of sheep farming shall now be rejected for applications for funds for predatory game-repellent fences, in order to contribute to a clearer zone management. Sons are fine, but it's not nice that the Council of State can point to better statistics. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e3268	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e3273	In Finnmark, there is a huge increase in both king eagle and oat eagle, and there is no doubt that eagles have become a challenge, especially for reindeer drift. The problem today is that we don't have any eagle management. The population just gets to grow and grow, and we don't have control of how many they're going to be. The loss of predators leads to great economic and mental burdens on the reindeer owners. Now the reincalving is going on, and unfortunately we see the same conditions as previous years. The situation is critical in several calving areas, and the reindeer are known to be powerless. I understand their frustration, and that they feel overwhelmed by the authorities. The merger has repeatedly pointed to the need to introduce extended opportunities for the killing of eagles in the Sami region. Today, there is a great deal to be done in order to obtain a penitentiary permit on queen eagles, among other things. because the roving game regulations say that the killing of the king eagle must be directed at certain individuals. I do not understand how it should be possible that we have to document which eagle has taken the calf before it is to be shot. It's impossible – but maybe that's what the Council of State wants. Purification indicates that the eagle population is much higher than the figures with which the authorities operate. There is no doubt about it when you see the great losses experienced by the reindeer today. The merger has underlined the importance of including traditional, experience-based knowledge from the reindeer industry in the predatory game management. I hope that the government parties can take a trip to Finnmark and meet the reindeers who every day find dead reindeer calves. Several have also indicated that domestic operations are now severely threatened, due to the large predatory load. When we now demand action, something has to happen. That is why I hope that today you can vote in favour of the proposals on follow-up to the Robbery Agreement, and not least take seriously the challenges faced by many in the reindeer industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e3284	Why is it that there must be a tragedy before the majority of the members of the Grand Duchy react to predatory policies? We've had tragedies every summer in the last few years. When wolves, especially, and other predators have gone into grazing priority areas, done enormous damage, damage that has cost tens of millions of dollars, even the Prime Minister has used helicopter to get to them, and said that the situation is incredibly sorry and here we have to do something. Now, before the grazing season has really started and the wolf has begun his raid, it is quite quiet. There are many fine words that we have a deal, the predatory game deal works, the two-part goal we have to rest on, etc., but it doesn't have the root of the reality that people experience out in areas where you have problems in animal husbandry, while experiencing extreme pressure from predators. Last year I was in the Rendalen at the end of the spring, it was late spring, because a wolf had been there and took lambs from a grazing area where several farmers drop their animals in the summer – one of the places where we can produce environmentally friendly food and make great use of resources, it just hadn't been for the wolf to leave the wolf zone and enter this which is a grazing priority area. Then the ministry had refused to grant permission for the killing of a wolf that had been observed in that area before the grazing season. Then the molting was granted during the grazing season, but it helped little, because it is difficult to trap wolves or other predators in the summer, simply because it is difficult to see them because they have a color that goes with nature, and you can't use snow to track them, as you can in winter and before the snow goes in the spring. It's obvious that it doesn't work as it is now. Can't you see that, and not just when you're in the middle of an attack and you have to calm down in the media? Because there are protests from all the parties that were behind the looting agreement, just that it's at the local level, while the poachers say everything works so well. Can't you see that, instead of saying that the Center Party is making suggestions on autopilot? I'm not going to autopilot, it's suggestions that we're strongly encouraged to promote, from people locally, because these are suggestions that would make their everyday life better.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e3293	Robbery policy is largely about balancing two aspects. It's challenging -- very challenging. And then we see that some parties don't have exactly the same approach to what others of us do -- they favor one side. They must be allowed to do that, but we have, as the first government, established a very good dialogue with the USS, the Association of the Foreign Communities, which brings results. They wanted legal remedies for the municipalities – where the government is complying with them. I have to admit that I get some déjà vu, that we have dealt with this matter before. These are actually clips and glues from the last proposal of the Central Party. It's just that it's happened quite a lot since last time. This applies to both the millions of conflict-reduction measures, to the heads of claims, to the management plans and to the legal appeal interests of the municipalities, to mention something. I have to admit that I think it is a little sad that something as important as predator management is turned into a yes or no to predators in a previously discussed representative proposal. It's much more nuanced than that. Both predators and those who must live with them deserve more than that. So it remains to see if the Center Party is more creative next year, or if we get a new clip and glue proposal. Finally – perhaps a little bit of a depression – to something I think is a little unnecessary: this hall is not filled with people from Oslo. The few, in fact, in this room is from Oslo. Most of us live elsewhere in the country — for example. in farms. On my farm, for example, there's a drum with Right people. The right has people in absolutely every state. There's no monopoly on having seen how people do it outside of Ring 3. Most people sitting in this room live with it every day. We all know that. Therefore, the Centre Party should relinquish that rhetoric. At least for me, it's about having some respect for us other people who actually live outside Oslo, who live every day in the village, and who know very well what it's like.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e3302	I react a little when the representative Westgaard-Halle says that this is a cutting-and-gluing proposal, because it is not at all. This is a proposal with effective harm-reduction measures, precisely in order to follow up the wide-ranging predatory agreement we have today in Stortinget. Unfortunately, there does not seem to be much to worry about the Right and Advance Party that both the Food Authority and the National Audit Service have concluded that the robber agreement is not being followed up. I can frame several points that are addressed in the reports: It is concluded that the zone management is not working. This is particularly the case in grazing priority areas. It is a dilemma for the ministry to take care of the interests of the pasturage. The ministry has spent a long time following the evaluation of the management from 2016, as evidenced by low active and low-level governance. The Ministry does not have sufficient knowledge of the causes of loss and the effects of the preventive and conflict mitigation measures. The fall in damage is to a small extent effective. These are not the words of the Central Party; these are the words of the Food Authority and the National Audit Office. It is therefore concluded that several points of the robberies agreement are not met. Today, when you look at the loss of predatory game, you can see that most of the documented loss occurs in grazing priority areas. So this happens despite the fact that the predatory game agreement says there shouldn't be predators representing a potential damage in those areas. The left must be very pleased to have managed to turn the Right Party and the Advance Party into backseat passengers in predatory policy. They have to do exactly what they want, but it disappoints me that the Right Party and the Advance Party do not take greater responsibility here. It's about following up on the broad looting agreement we've decided in Stortinget. The fact that the government does not follow the rapprochement, does not follow the two-part objective, and, in general, does not follow up the decision of the Great Britain, is about more than predators. It's basically about people's trust in the authorities. When the state changes the rules of the game along the way, when the state exercises power without a democratically anchored justification, the confidence of those who govern the country is weakened. Can the government live by the fact that parts of the population feel that their experiences are not respected, that their arguments are less important, that their rights are less valuable, and that the predatory settlement is not followed up? I will end with a small explanation of vote: the centre party will vote in a subsidiary way for the Workers' Party's proposal for a pilot project on the king's eagle, even though we really want to go further.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e3333	First of all, the government is following up the looting game comparisons. We follow up the majority decision on the wolf. We follow up on the Berne Convention. And we're following the natural diversity law. As far as I can see, there is nothing in the Riksrevision report that shows that the robberies deal is not fulfilled. They have comments, and we shall look at them and, of course, also comment on the Committee on Control. To other claims: we have an effective preparedness for killing permits. It's said here that it's a bureaucratic system. On the contrary. In fact, applications are dealt with in minutes, and there is a readiness throughout the summer when damage occurs. There is no criticism of this either. I almost can't see how to make it more effective, based on the way we have it right now. There's no doubt about it. There's no doubt about it. But we have strengthened the State's natural oversight to be able to support under the local killing laws. We work with a supervisor to make this further effective, and we also have suggestions on consulting to make the trial system with you permanent. We have a two-part objective. We're going to have it in grazing priority areas, and we're going to have it in the predatory game priority areas. It's about making these as good as possible. The main responsibility for this lies with the predators. We also now have consultations on how this can be done more effectively in order to improve zone management in Norway. The wolf in the north-east valley last year was pulled out again. There wasn't one, there were at least three inside the area. Everyone came from Sweden. Whether one wolf and one decision in the past have led to any change is impossible for both me and others to say. Now we have made changes in hunting times outside the wolf zone to extend this in the spring, out of May, just as we have a restriction on the harvest in order to make it possible to have immigrated the wolf – the main problem is the inbreeding of the wolf – to be able to get important wolves from Finland and Russia. In the end, in the case of the king eagle, we have a stable population of the king eagle, and we need more research. If we just take out the queen when we don't know which eagle it is, we have no guarantee that it gives any effect, as fast as they move and can take over an area... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e3346	I can assure Stortinget that the Center Party will not stop taking up this kind of proposal. We're going to continue to deal with this kind of proposal, and we're going to do it throughout the big period, because this concerns people's everyday lives. Many people are living with quite serious challenges related to today’s predatory policy and to the fact that one in several areas does not follow the predatory comparisons made by the Stortinge. Right now the wolf is wandering in the border area between Meråker and Verdal. There shouldn't be any wolf there. In that part of Norway, we have yerv, bear and gaupe, and we're not going to have any wolf. That wolf must be removed by sea as soon as possible. For this reason, it would have been most effective to have a standing breeding permit and to ensure that a few more efficient evisceration in pasture-prioritised areas. Both of these municipalities are grazing priority areas. Right now we know that the reindeer industry has again lost large parts of its calving to predatory game, in both northern Sami and south Sami areas. They are plagued by this zone management with which we operate, because it does not fit very well for the reindeer industry. The cleaning industry is not subdivided into zone management, predatory zone, grazing zone. They have their reindeer business where they usually had their pasturage, and they move after where they usually had their pasturage. They have great losses associated with predatory game, whether it's wolf, bear or you. It was asked here what has happened since the last time the Center Party made proposals. Yes, there are two things that have happened. One is that the Food Authority has produced an alarming report and warned against the predatory game management we have, and the other is the Riksrevision report. That makes us think it's quite timely to take up these questions one more time. Let me then mention three things in particular: One is very concerned with the predatory zones, but had a corresponding care to make sure that there was actually a full possibility of grazing in grazing priority areas, we had come a long way. The problem is that some of those with the greatest challenges now — in the previous season but also likely in the current season — are grazing priority areas, not predatory areas. The second is that if one had taken out more of the allowances under license, especially on yours, one might have escaped some of the problems that one sheep with you in the spring and summer. It's almost impossible to track them in the spring and summer. The third is that if one proposes changes in the management of wild game, aggregation of zones or predatory game subjects, then there is a clear question that needs to be discussed in the Storting, as it is actually a very concrete part of the predatory game agreement that was concluded in 2011. Otherwise I just have to say it's a typical sign in Middle Norway. 100 bears have a certain license agreement for in Jämtland, and then we live in Trøndelag, and they don't see the boundary between them.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e3372	Governments relate very much to various documentation, reports, research, etc. It's really great, but you also have to relate to how things in nature and animal husbandry work. The Council of State, for example, showed that: that the government is so good at facilitating effective hunting for the wolf, by referring to the extended hunting time of the wolf outside the wolf zone, which is now from 1 December and out of May. The problem with such a presentation of what is effective is that it is logically less effective — although the period itself is longer. When the wolf had to be killed inside and outside the wolf zone, the hunters were in consultation, so that they could extend the killing period somewhat, so that they could start earlier in the harvest, from 25 September, and continue out of April. Why? Yes, for the period from September 25th and the next two months is the time of year when there are most hunters hunting in Norway, because then it is elgjakt and deer hunting. Before that, the fallout period on the wolf to a certain degree coincided with the elk. It was not quite coincidental, but it was at least a period in the elk, as one could also trap wolves. Now there's almost no part of the elk where you can trap wolves. You might say that you have extended the precipitation period out of May, but the problem is that the snow melts. It would have been better to start earlier and stop a little earlier, because in April there is still snow in many of the areas where there is wolf, and it would have been possible to hunt it. These are the actual realities that the Council of State has to deal with in its manufactures. I'm also a bit surprised at what the council said in the line change that you can be absolutely sure that there's no causal link between regrowing due to predators, that the 685 red-listed plant and insect species threatened by regrowth are actually endangered, and that the knowledge base we have suggests that it's 100 pst. I'm sure there's no causal link between the two things. I wonder what the basis of knowledge is.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e3383	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e3399	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the President of the case, 5 minutes to each of the other party groups and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows be given, with replies from members of the Government, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e3408	The background for us to deal with this matter now is that we received an enquiry from Tanavasstraket's fish management. They had been in contact with the Ministry of the Environment to seek answers to the situation following the conclusion of the Tana Agreement, which was adopted in 2017, but had received little concrete answers to it. That was the background for us, as a committee, to ask questions to the Ministry of the Environment. We did that the first time on March 5. Then we asked follow-up questions on March 26. In view of the fact that we were not satisfied with the answers we received, the Committee opened up a case. This is a case that has been dealt with in its full width earlier in Stortinget. It was addressed on 28 March 2017. Then it was Innst. 228 S for the 2016-2017 treatment. The tana agreement was quite controversial that time, and there were particularly two things that were controversial. One was that many thought – the party I represent was among them – that the fish management of the Tanavas Strait and the Sameting were not involved in the development of the agreement in the way they should be involved. In addition, there was a question that at the end of the negotiations a new rights group had been set up, namely Finnish cabin owners with cabins in Tanadalen. In this respect, it is worth noting that during the hearing in the case there were significant warnings against the agreement that was concluded and not from anyone. It was from Tanavassträket's fish management and from Sametinget, but it was also from the County of Finnmark and from Finnmark County, to name a few. Nevertheless, the Ministry did not check the legal basis for the claims about the rights that Finnish tenants had to have, which are thus new rights that were not in the old agreement. After the agreement was concluded and our proposal to go to the new negotiations was defeated, it was once again the Tanavassträk fishing management that made the department aware that there had actually been legal testing of the Finnish cabin owners' right to fish as owners of the river. It had been rejected by the Finnish judicial system, and the European Court of Human Rights had also refused to address the case, because they considered the old agreement to be correct. It was then, of course, a test of the previous agreement. So anyway, that knowledge didn't come into her. That is the background for us now dealing with the matter. There is no rematch on the previous case, because it is settled, but the question is: Has the Council followed the information obligation imposed on him under the Basic Law § 82, i.e. that there should be correct and sufficient information for our decisions? There was a lack of information in the handling of the case about what was the Finnish legal state. It says the majority of the committee is critical. In the debate that took place in connection with the previous proceedings on the matter, on 28 March 2017, the then State Council Helgesen said: ‘It is not new that non-resident owners of land have fishing rights in the river, but the new thing is that the existing Finnish right is now regulated in the agreement.’ No, after the Tana agreement that applied, the Finnish landlords did not have the basic ownership rights. Even so, in connection with the hearing I asked the former State Council Helgesen about exactly that and the course of the negotiations, and he actually confirmed that if the agreement had been adopted as it existed in December 2015, the Finnish cabin owners would not have these rights either. So there was something that came in at the end of the negotiations, and that was, of course, the background for making noise. Another claim made by the landfill proposal from then on is as follows: ‘The Agreement, however, provides that this group of rights is to be treated mainly as other tourist fishermen.’ So that was the basis that the Stortinget got from the ministry to make its decisions. But no, that's not true, because there's a lot of differences. These include: a much longer season, it is a longer fishing day, and the cabin owners can, unlike the arriving fishermen, have by boat themselves. Nor do they depend on having a local rower, and they pay only EUR 10 to get the fishing rights – a completely different price from what we are used to for the corresponding fishing rights of a local fisherman in Tana on the Norwegian side and other arriving fishermen on the Finnish side. There's a bunch of special rights, so that's misleading information. What is serious about this matter, as well as the fact that the Finnish cabin owners have been given very special fishing rules far beyond what they were said to be comparable to – the tourist fishermen – is that a new right group has been introduced at all. The rules in Tana are still open to discussion, but there is thus a whole new right group in the new Tana agreement. It was one of the things that was going on at the hearing, and after the hearing, we got to grips with what could happen during the hearing, namely that the Finnish tourist fishermen have now also been given the opportunity to sell their fishing licenses further. So if you and I go to Tana and buy fishing licenses, we're not allowed to sell them on and make money on them, so at least the rules in Tana, but the Finnish cabin owners have that opportunity. It demonstrates the danger of allowing a whole new group of rightholders in a well-regulated area. Therefore, it is thoroughly visible that it was wrong to grant rights to a new group, and that it may have consequences that we do not understand. I would ask the Council of State to pay particular attention to page 5 of the motion for a resolution and to the unanimous comment of the Committee there, which just points out the unfortunateness of what I am now referring to, that the Finnish cabin owners have thus been given completely new rights in relation to the time when we had the matter at the hearing in the committee. That is why we jointly say that here the Council of State must take the initiative against its Finnish counterpart and stop that development. In addition, there is a proposal from the majority of the Committee, which says: ‘The Council asks the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment to contact the Finnish authorities with a view to depriving Finnish cabin owners in Tanadalen of the possibility to resell fishing licences.’ In this case, in my opinion and in the majority's view, the size has not been properly informed. It is also striking that, as regards both the knowledge that the requirements of the Finnish cabin owners were rejected in the Finnish legal system, and the knowledge of the developments we are now seeing, that Finnish cabin owners can sell their fishing licenses, none of that information has come to us from the department. No, it is Tanavassträket's fish management that has had to follow the case and make the department aware of what is going on. Therefore, it is worth noting to the Council of States the common comment that is unanimous. I sincerely hope that the Council of State will now address the matter and try to stop the developments that are taking place.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e3445	For 146 years, we have had an agreement with Finland on fishing in the Tanava stretch. The previous agreement was, as has been said, from 1989, and it gave too much pressure to fish in the watercourse, among other things. because of the large Finnish tourist fishing. The 1989 agreement had no upper limit on Finnish tourist fishing. Finland really did not want a renegotiation of the agreement, because they thought they had a very good deal. That is why the negotiations for a new agreement were very difficult, and it took five years to reach an agreement. But the result was good. The fishing pressure is falling, and Norway’s share of the fish is increasing. An example of this is that in 2015 33 000 fishing licences were sold to visitors on the Finnish side, while 3 000 fishing licences were sold on the Norwegian side, and in 2018 Finnish sales were reduced by two thirds compared to 2015. This is because the new agreement provides a ceiling of 11 000 fishing licences to each country, including fishing licenses for the Finnish cabin owners, which means that the fish pressure from visitors has now fallen by about one third. This has been absolutely necessary to rebuild the fish stocks in the Tanavas trek. In this case, we have to do with the different legal systems and laws of two countries. In Finland, there are strong rights attached to individual landowners. If you have a property on a watercourse in Finland, you have fishing rights there, whether you live there or not. On the Norwegian side, on the other hand, a permanent settlement is a prerequisite for fishing rights in the Tanavasstraket. Finnish cabin owners at Tanavassträget have their own right to fish even if they live elsewhere in Finland. This right is protected by the Finnish Constitution. The protection of the rights of the Finnish cabin owners is even stronger today than when the previous Tana agreement was concluded. In the past, the Finnish Parliament was able to derogate from the basic law on the protection of property by a qualified majority, as was done when the Finnish Parliament adopted the old Tana Agreement in 1989. However, the Finnish Constitution was amended in 2000. The ownership was then further strengthened. Now it is no longer possible to derogate from the fundamental law's protection of property by a qualified majority in Parliament. This had to be taken into account in the negotiations on the new Tana agreement. It also had to be included in the new bilateral agreement. It is quite common in negotiations between two countries to take the internal legal situation of each country as a starting point for the negotiations. It is unreasonable and unthinkable to consider another way of negotiating between two countries. There has also been criticism from the opposition that the government has not involved Sametinget and Tanavassträket in the renegotiation of a new agreement. I will then refer to the hearing we had in Stortinget when we dealt with this matter. Both the current and the former state councils well explained the knowledge they had at the moment of negotiation, and how, in their opinion, both the Sametinget and the Tanavas Streak’s fish management were along the whole process. Finally, as a previous speaker has said, Finland has recently found that Finnish cabin owners are in the process of granting extended rights that give them financial gains and that can also involve new user groups. The right considers that the Council of State must take initiative with the Finnish authorities in order to safeguard Norwegian interests. It is important that the terms of the agreement are met in such a way that Norwegian landowners do not suffer damage. It is also important for the Right that the objective of reducing fish pressure in the Tanavas and the management of fish stocks in the watercourse is not waived.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e3462	Tanaelva is world famous for the good salmon fishing. Norway’s largest salmon eel has been a source of food, entrepreneurial income, tourism and other pleasures throughout all years, especially for those living along the river. Now that we've come into the difficult situation that there's disagreement about how one of the Norwegian and Finnish sides runs the management of the fishing in the river, it's a shame. Nevertheless, I am happy that the matter has come to Stortinget. We can quickly come to an agreement that it was right to start new negotiations because of the large fish pressure in the 11th century and the high percentage of fish that died. There is no doubt that this has produced results, and that Tanaelva today appears to be one of the best salmon rivers. Nevertheless, there is disagreement in the cooperation between those who use eleven actively. In particular, this applies to what is happening on the Finnish side. I believe that much of it could have been avoided if the Stortinget had been well informed about what happened on the Finnish side from 1989 until a new agreement was concluded. It seems a little strange that the Finnish owners of cabins, as one claims had no fishing rights, were suddenly asked to obtain fishing rights under local conditions on the national border section, at a time when the negotiations between the Finnish and Norwegian sides had ended. It's never a good feeling to sit in the hall when something about yourself is decided behind closed doors. It is therefore easy to understand the frustration that the board of directors of the Tanavasstrak’s fish management said they had after the Svanhovd meeting in May 2016. This process at all bears witness to a lack of involvement, in particular by the Norwegian landowners. When landowners think that Finns can solve a registration fee of EUR 10, and that then there is no more control over how this is resold, we are worried about it. We therefore support the proposal to contact the Finnish authorities to ensure that the Finnish cabin owners in Tanadalen are not allowed to continue to resell their fishing licenses.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e3475	I want to start by saying that the Tana Agreement is a very important environmental agreement, which ensures that we can rebuild overfished populations in the Tana River Strip. There is a broad consensus that there has been a need to reduce fishing in order to rebuild stocks in one of the world's most important Atlantic salmon streams. This has been achieved so far through the new agreement. The Tana Agreement is a good agreement, based on thorough balances between Norwegian and Finnish interests. The result of the agreement, which is also pointed out by the Committee, is a reduction in the fishing pressure. Norway’s share of the fish resource is rising, and we are on the way to achieving the goal of rebuilding stocks. In 2015 it was sold approx. 33 000 cards for travellers on the Finnish side, while the agreement now limits the number of such cards to 11000. This shows that Finnish tourist fishing is significantly reduced by the new agreement. As referred to in Prop. 54 S for 2016–2017, in Finland the owners of cabins have a fishing right under Finnish law. This fishing right is protected by the Finnish Constitution. This was also the legal situation when the previous agreement was concluded in 1989. At the time of the conclusion of the previous agreement, it was possible to derogate from the fundamental law provisions on the protection of ownership. This possibility was subsequently removed by a constitutional amendment. Finland therefore insisted that the new agreement should give this fishing right a certain amount. I take note of the majority's criticism that the changes to the Finnish Constitution were not problematic at the time of the conclusion of the new agreement. I would like to stress that the Stortinget was correctly informed about the legal situation on the Finnish side. The judicial decision, which has been brought forward after the Storting's proceedings on the case, has confirmed this. Furthermore, I note that the majority of the Committee sees the differences between the rights of Finnish cabin owners and other tourist fishermen as significant. I would like to point out that the majority then ignores the main point, namely that the significant distinction goes between resident and arriving fishermen. Permanent residents may fish with a seasonal card, and permanent owners also have the opportunity to fish with yarn. On the other hand, travellers can only purchase daily tickets from a limited quota and can only fish by rod. This rule also applies to the cabin owners. They must also purchase daily tickets within a limited proportion of the Finnish tourist quota. The slightly extended access of the cabin owners to the fish is not assumed to result in significant increases in fishing pressure when purchasing cards from the set quota. In the first two fishing seasons under the agreement, Finnish cabin owners have been responsible for 6-7 pst. of Finnish tourist catches. I note that the majority of the committee has decided to ask me to contact the Finnish authorities in order to deprive Finnish cabin owners in Tanadalen of the opportunity to resell fishing licences. In this context, the Committee points out that it is ‘evident that some prerequisites for the renegotiation of the agreement from 2017 and the acceptance of it by Norwegian parties have now been changed, inter alia, by granting new rights to Finnish cabin owners that give them financial benefits and involve new user groups’. The opinion and the committee's reference thereon are based on the opinions of the fish management of the Tanavasstrak during the consultation and on the information received after the hearing. We are now investigating with the Finnish authorities what are the legal issues on the Finnish side. The feedback I have received so far from the Finnish authorities says that Finnish law does not allow fishing rights or fishing licences to be resold to Tanavas. There may be a certain possibility on the Finnish side of fishing rights holders to rent out the fishing rights. What I have to look into is what this means, and what that difference actually involves in practice. Of course, we continue our dialogue with the Finnish authorities on all the issues related to the Tana agreement on how the fisheries rules work. In conclusion, I would like to say that we are now on the right track to achieve the objectives underlying the agreement, as regards both the rebuilding of fish stocks, the reduction of fishing opportunities, the restriction of tourist fishing and the distribution of fish between Norway and Finland. I would like to stress that there is extensive contact between the department and the Tanavasstrak fishing management in the work that is currently in progress in implementing the agreement and building up the stocks in the watercourse. Good cooperation between all parties is central to achieving the objectives of the agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e3490	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e3495	Let me first underline – because I had to use my post to talk about the things it had been and disagree on – that when the matter was initially dealt with, there was no disagreement that there was a need to reduce the total fishing pressure in Tana. Nor did it come to light when dealing with this matter or from any of those at the hearing. That is not what the disagreement is about – we agree on that. However, there is the introduction of a new right group, which – if one heard between the lines of the Council of State, which actually confirmed that the old agreement was valid until the new arrival – did not have that right in practice. When we see the development of such rights leading to them, my first question is: will the Council follow up on the joint remark? I do not ask whether he will necessarily follow up on a proposal that might be voted down, but the joint remark, because, to some extent, he was a little in the end, just trying to stop progress. Because I don't think it's a desired development on the part of the department, the development we're seeing now.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e3502	As I say, we're in contact with the Finnish Ministry to really figure out what the situation is, and what this is about. Then we have to look at how this is against the agreement we have. The cabin owners had rights, but they could be set aside before the new agreement, and one reason is that there was almost no restriction on the ability of passengers to buy tickets on the Finnish side before they had this agreement. So with the new agreement, all parties around the Tanavas stretch have had reductions in fishing opportunities, which provide a basis for dampening the fish pressure and re-establishing the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e3507	Let me then ask the question: When did the department get acquainted with such a development on the Norwegian side? None of us knew about it when the Council of State was at the hearing. Some people suggested that it could happen, but it's worrying that we have to get that kind of information from third parties in the relationship between government and big business, that is, Tanavassträk's fish management. When did the Council of State become aware that there was such a development with the translation of the relevant fishing licences on the Finnish side? Was it only on the basis of information from Tanavassträket’s fish management?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e3512	We're trying to find out what the content is, and if it's possible to trade, if it's possible to sell, if it's rental. I need to know more about this. As the committee, I was familiar with this issue at the hearing of the Tanavassträket fish management, and then we have tried to find out more in retrospect. It's also based on the news releases that have been.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e3518	Then I assume that the Council of State follows up what he says, that they investigate, that it is followed up with contact with a view to stopping this development, which I assume we can agree on is unfortunate. My last question concerns both the discussion about Finnish legal status and the decisions that have taken place in Finland and about the rental of fishing rights now. Other than the Ministry has become familiar with matters and has made known them to the Department. Then is my last question – because the criticism of the original handling of the case was just the contact with the Tanavassträket fish management and the Sametinget – about the state council will say yes to actually talking to them. Because there is an emotional and real, provoked situation in which a new rights group has been introduced – I have not heard protests against reducing fishing pressure – with that element of the agreement. I ask: Will the Council of State in the future say yes to meeting the Tanavas Streak's Fish Management and the Sameting on the matter, so that they can be involved in the further work?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e3525	The Ministry has a lot of contact with Tanavassträket’s fish management. Reassessments of the fishing regulations are carried out every year, and the fish management of the Tanavasstrak is involved. There have also been adjustments here. I would also like to point out that I – not as the State Council, but as the then head of the Energy and Environment Committee – had a lot of contact with the Tanavas Streak's fisheries management prior to the decision taken by the Stortinget, both in Tana and, of course, also in a separate consultation held at the time by the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e3532	I'm sorry it had to happen again. I did not ask if the department had any contact with Tanavassträket's fish management, which he responded to in a long time. This is a political issue that is very important to the population of the Tana Valley, and they expect to talk to the political level. That is why I ask whether the Council of State itself will agree to meet those who are involved and involved in this matter. This could be done, for example, by: by the fact that the Council of State of Elvesuen could try a fishing licence on the Norwegian side and a fishing licence on the Finnish side, according to the standard cabin owner, and see the practical difference.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e3537	If I get a request from the Tanavassträket fishing management, I will, of course, have a meeting with them, as in all other requests.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e3542	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 15th
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e3560	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no opportunity for a replacement of lines, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e3569	No one has asked for the floor on case No. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e3581	The size is then ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e3768	It is quoted first in § 41, second sentence, and § 45. The Progress Party, the Center Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e3782	President! I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e3788	At that time, the presidency's position was approved by 69 votes to 30. It is contested in the fourth paragraph of Section 51. The party of progress, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e3806	We have a lot of voting now, so now I ask you to concentrate carefully when I read. The presidency's position was then approved by 59 votes to 41. The rest of I and II are voted on. The Progress Party and the Center Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e3952	In the course of the debate, a total of five proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-3 from Björn Moxnes on behalf of Red the proposals No 4 and 5, from Freddy André Supreme Court on behalf of the Socialist Left Party We are voting on proposals 1 and 2 from Red. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The decrease agrees to the fixing of the following remunerations with effect from 1 May 2019: – Deposit representatives: SEK 798 864 per year [[14 times the basic amount of Social Security]] Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The amount of the allowance shall be terminated by the Wage and Wage Commission.’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e3983	There is a vote on proposal No. Three from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Council asks the Presidency to amend the guidelines of the Grand Duchy’s Wage Commission. The amendments shall ensure that the Wage and Wage Commission does not submit proposals for a million-dollar salary.’.» The Socialist Left has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e4000	There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size consents, with effect from 1 May 2019, to regulate the remuneration of large-scale representatives, members of the government and prime minister corresponding to the married and cohabiting minimum pensioners estimated to increase purchasing power as a result of the year’s social security settlement. The allowance is set at SEK 420 on this basis and gives the following compensations: – Depositary representatives: SEK 956 883 per year – Government members: SEK 1 365 436 per year – Prime Minister: SEK 1 680 697 per year»
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e4017	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The amount agrees that allowances for depositors and government members are kept unchanged at: – Depositary representatives: SEK 956,463 per year – Government members: SEK 1, 365,016 per year – Prime Minister: SEK 1,680,277 per year»
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e4087	In the course of the debate, a total of five proposals were put forward by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to investigate and come back to the Storting with a proposal to review the quarantine law of an existing control body for similar benefits, such as Nav Control. The Supervisory Board shall not have members who are former State Councils, State Secretaries or political advisers in the Governmental Apparatus.’;» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks either to return to the Storting with a proposal to amend the quarantine pay system so that persons who set up companies during the post-paid period in areas that will trigger the quarantine, but do not pay, receive the quarantine, or to settle and return to the Storting with a proposal to introduce a provision in the quarantine law that regulates the speculation of setting up companies or equivalent in order to extend the quarantine period not to be a law, and in such cases to trigger claims for reimbursement of the compensation.’;» Proposal No. 3 sounds: «The decision asks the Government to propose to amend Section 20 of the Quarantine Act in order to impose an infringement fee if the conditions exist.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The decision requests the Government to make proposals to recover the compensation paid in the event of a breach of the quarantine law.’;» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The majority asks the Presidency to propose a change in the scheme for post-employment benefits to members of the Government, State Secretaries and political advisers so that those who have income from wages, salaries, pensions or the like after retirement are not paid a retirement benefit for one month irrespective of the source of the income’.» An alternative is to vote between these proposals and the decision of the presidency. The Presidency had set the Storting to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e4127	Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e4143	During the debate, Freddy André Øvstegård put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Grand Duchy is asking the Presidency to come back with a new proposal to the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Norwegian Institute for Human Rights, without any links with the current Government. Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e4170	The Socialist Left has announced subsidiary support for the suspension.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e4187	Socialist Left Party and Red Party have announced subsidiary support for the suspension.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e4232	A total of 11 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-6, from Siv Mossleth on behalf of the Centre Party proposal No 7, by Arne Nävra on behalf of the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 8-11, from Björn Moxnes on behalf of Red There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 9 and 10, from Red. Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government is asked, by reference to Article 10 of EU Regulation 1072/2009, ESA, to immediately suspend the cabotage rules in road freight transport in Norway.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The budget asks the government to review and propose improvements before the regulatory reintroduction of the cabotage system.’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e4266	There is a vote on proposal No. 8 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the necessary day-to-day continuous monitoring of vehicle trains at border crossing points in Norway, without at the expense of domestic controls.’ The Central Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e4283	There is a vote on proposal No. 11 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Government to ensure that transport buyers who violate the duty of driver pay and working conditions during cabotage operations are subject to severe penalties and to increase the level of fines to at least DKK 10 per kilogram of goods for road freight and at least NOK 1000 per passenger for road passenger transport’.» The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left have announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e4300	There is a vote on proposal No. 7, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to review the sanctions/punishment framework for the professional transport sector and to assess whether they are strict enough and to return to the Stortingen case.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e4317	There is a vote on proposal No. One from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to reduce the number of possible cabotage operations from three to two.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e4335	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2–6, from the Centre Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government requests the introduction of electronic consignment note requirements for the transport industry.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for advance payment or other guarantee solutions to ensure that all foreign vehicle combinations pay tolls.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that fines linked to the illegal use of diesel diesel are made equal for Norwegian and non-resident carriers.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to introduce a compulsory course at the level of Norwegian drivers to master Norwegian winter roads and to set stricter standards for the winter equipment of cars.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: «The government is asked to establish an environmental aid scheme for rail freight. The environmental aid scheme must facilitate the movement of a greater proportion of the goods from road to rail.’ The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e4382	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e4398	In the course of the debate, a total of five proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Sverre Myrli on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 3-5, by Arne Nävra on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to withdraw circular N-1/2013 or to change its content in such a way that the Norwegian authorities comply with EU legislation relating to international transport in this field, thereby recording both the tractor and the trailer registration number, and using the same definitions as used in both cabotage legislation and the Road Freight Code where the tractor and coupled trailer are defined as one vehicle.’ The Central Party and Red have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e4424	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 and 4 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to examine the possibility of setting in motion the possibility for Norwegian control authorities such as the State Road Administration, the Labour Inspectorate and others to stop and prevent the further movement of vehicle combinations which have outstanding debts on tolls, fines or other debts to the Norwegian State before their claims are settled, either by local drawing of credit cards, bank transfers or other.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for compensation for cars of less than 3,5 tonnes carrying goods by road to be subject to the same legislation as for professional cars of more than 3,5 tonnes, both in terms of driving and rest periods, compulsory allowances, public pay and other requirements applicable to heavy-duty vehicles.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e4448	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to develop and submit to the Storting measures to halt the development of social dumping, crime and increased safety risks in the transport sector, including proposals to: 1st@item: inlistbox All foreign tour bus operators are required to register in the VAT register, i.e. the limit is reduced from NOK 50000 to NOK 1 in turnover for VAT registration for this class, which will facilitate the control measures. In addition, all cabotage operations shall be electronically registered in Norway. 2nd@item: inlistbox The labour inspectorate shall increase the control activities. The establishment of a separate special unit for checks in the transport sector shall be economically strengthened and manned. The national road authority shall increase the control activities on the border and along national roads. The State Road Service shall be granted the right of enforcement to stop vehicles following a decision of the Labour Inspectorate. An electronic consignment note system for the carriage of goods by road shall be established. 3rd@item: inlistbox It shall be ascertained whether professional cars of less than 3,5 tonnes may be legally covered by the driving and rest periods or whether regulations giving equivalent effect may be introduced in any other way. 4th@item: inlistbox Punctuality shall be introduced for holders of national transport permits for breach of the labour environment and road traffic law. 5th@item: inlistbox Increased and certified equipment and competence requirements for drivers in winter driving are required. Requirements are introduced for all drivers on Norwegian roads to have completed a smooth course. Requirements are introduced to allow trucks on Norwegian winter roads only to use winter tyres which are 3PMSF-labelled under EU legislation and which have strict adhesion and performance requirements in cold weather conditions. 6th@item: inlistbox The obligation to provide information, the duty on passports and the right to transparent access to collective agreements for road haulage and road haulage employees shall be further strengthened. The control measures of the authorities shall increase to an extent and interruptions shall result in deterrent reactions. 7th@item: inlistbox Legal, economic and insurance co-responsibility shall be imposed on the contracting entity when purchasing transport services, in addition to the joint and several liability in force in all branches where there is a regulated minimum wage or salary. [[generalised collective agreements]] Eight. The ownership of the country shall be actively used to promote a serious working life with a level playing field in the transport sector. State companies and businesses shall comply with the seriousness requirements. 9th@item: inlistbox Money shall be paid on the compulsory toll chips before foreign trucks and coaches cross the border with Norway. 10th@item: inlistbox Co-ordination of the efforts of agencies against unprofessional operators in the transport sector should be strengthened. Customs, Public Prosecutors, Public Road Administration, Labour Inspectorate and the instruments of tax authorities are important counter-factors for the emergence of unprofessional operators in the transport sector, and therefore efforts need to be better coordinated.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to contact the Swedish and Finnish authorities in order to improve and strengthen control cooperation so that heavy vehicles which do not comply with road safety requirements are stopped by Norwegian inspectors even where the border control is on a foreign basis. It must also be possible to stop a vehicle where the owner has not paid outstanding claims for tolls, fines or other debts, until this has been paid.» Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e4499	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e4516	During the debate, Kirsti Leirtrø put forward a proposal on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to draw up a programme to reduce the maintenance run on the county roads. The programme shall outline a roadside refurbishment plan with proposals for funding models and organisation to increase maintenance and post-stress reduction on the county road network.’;» Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. Red has announced support for the proposal. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e4546	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Kirsti Leirtrø on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Kirsti Leirtrø on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2. from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size of the budget for 2020 requires the government to provide up-to-date cost estimates for all projects in the National Transport Plan 2018-2029.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e4572	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to come back to Stortinget with a complete case about the future organisation of the State Road Administration.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e4686	Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e4702	During the debate, Sverre Myrli put forward three proposals, on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for further tendering of passenger services by train until an external evaluation of the invitation to tender of Traffic Package 1 South and Traffic Package 2 North has been carried out.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: «The Government is asked to ensure that no contract is signed with the award winner of Traffic Package 2 Nord until an external evaluation has been carried out. If the evaluation reveals that the price is weighted above quality, the tender shall be cancelled and a new tendering procedure shall be initiated in which quality is weighted significantly higher than price.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is also asked to include in future calls for tenders for train passenger services with assessment criteria for the safety and employment of employees.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e4747	A total of 22 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, from Else-May Botten Norderhus on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party the proposals No 4–6, from Une Bastholm on behalf of the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment proposal No 7, from Ole André Myhrvold on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 8, from Une Bastholm on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Greens proposal No 9, from Lars Haltbrecken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 10, from Une Bastholm on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA the proposals No 11-22, from Björn Moxnes on behalf of Red There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 12, 14, 18, and 20, from Red. Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for the launch of a State pilot project for electricity generation from deep geothermal energy in 2020, based on geological knowledge and drilling technology from the petroleum sector, such as cooperation between oil industry partners, public research institutions and the Research Council.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the strengthening of regional development funds, with instruments specifically aimed at expanding existing industrial clusters, building new industrial clusters, extending product and value chains, ensuring resource use of by-products and creating locally anchored jobs, in cooperation with relevant trade unions in the region.’; Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to allow a share of the SPU to be used as a national green industrial fund to make strategic investments in domestic industrial production, with a view to ensuring technological development, increased exports of goods, more industrial jobs, increased value creation and further processing in Norway.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals to enable a share of the SPU to be used as a green infrastructure fund investing in the development of climate-friendly infrastructure such as rail, collective, charging networks, ports and broadband throughout Norway.’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e4803	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 11, 13 and 22, from Red. Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a large-scale industrial construction plan across the country, based on further processing of the country’s natural resources, industrial workers’ knowledge, technology and environments of competence, so that professionals and communities who have contributed great values to the community must not take up the cost of the necessary conversion of the Norwegian petroleum industry in response to global climate change.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asking, in cooperation with the parties in today’s supplier industry and public research institutions, to work to ensure that hydrogen is safely and commercially available as a fuel for shipping in 5 years’ time’.» Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The government is asked to present a case on how to establish and maintain existing industrial production throughout the country by developing and facilitating different forms of ownership, including regional and county ownership, ownership through employee funds, and employee-owned enterprises.’ The Socialist Left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e4832	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 15 to 17 and 19, from Red: Proposal No. 15 sounds: «The Government is asked to ensure that assignments in respect of large investments in public enterprises, state companies and enterprises are given to shipyards and production companies in Norway, with requirements for good cooperation of the parties on business development, fixed employment, contract chain restrictions and stringent requirements for HMS and the external environment.» Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government is asking for updated guidelines for ENOVA and other national support schemes so that grants for major investments and projects within the target are conditional on a high proportion of the value chain of the projects being located in Norway and allow the restoration of production previously moved out of the country.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to present a case on how Statnett and Statkraft are to be given extended responsibility to ensure that Norwegian electricity and power generation are used as an industrial policy and environmental instrument, including ensuring industry access to long-term reasonable power contracts, with strict environmental and active production requirements, and to say no to new power connections abroad.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government is asking in the context of the notified ownership notification for proposals on how to use existing and new state ownership actively to maintain industrial production in Norway, as well as proposals to increase the level of further processing and ensure longer value chains in Norwegian industry, in particular related to forestry and wood processing, aquaculture, fisheries, agriculture and food industry, as well as process industries and further processing of metals and minerals.’ The Central Party has announced its support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e4866	There is a vote on proposal No. 21, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government of the State budget for 2020 is asked to establish a support mechanism for projects in the process industry that replace fossil inputs with hydrogen or other solutions that contribute to a significant reduction of greenhouse gas emissions from the chemical processes.’» The Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e4883	There is a vote on proposal No. 10. from the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government in the context of the State budget for 2020 to set up Bionova, in line with Enova’s model, to systematise innovation and increase the commercialisation of bio-based value creation.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e4901	There is a vote on proposal No. 9, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking within the climate target to cut emissions by 60 pst. by 2030, and halting the loss of natural diversity, present a plan that increases the share of the green mainland industry in the value creation to 10 pst. in 2025, and to 20 pst. in 2040.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e4918	There is a vote on proposal No. 8, by the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government of the State budget for 2020 is asked to make proposals for a large-scale investment in the development of offshore wind power in Norway.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e4935	There is a vote on proposal No. 7, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to go against several foreign tables before we have gained experience of the two started cables to Germany and the United Kingdom. Social benefits must be documented before several foreign tables can be built.’ The Workers' Party has announced its support for the proposal and Red has notified subsidiary support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e4952	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4–6, from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a return to the Storting with proposals for the establishment of a green investment company for the development of technology enterprises based on green renewable carbon.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the start of a state pilot project for sea wind in 2020 through cooperation between the parties in the oil supply industry, public research institutions and the Research Council.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to explore the potential for energy production from geothermal energy in Norway, both at sea and on land.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e4981	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking to contribute to the development of new production methods and uses of Norwegian natural gas based hydrogen.’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e4996	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government actively requests the Government to facilitate fleet renewal in the short-sea fleet, inter alia. by establishing a top-level financing scheme in the GIEC and a wreckage scheme that is taking place.’;» Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e5014	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government requests the continuation of the CO 2 compensation scheme at today’s level by at least 75 pst. compensation also after 2020.’;» The Socialist Left and Red have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e5059	It shall be counted against II, III and IV only. The President assumes that the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e5073	It's going to wrestle over you. Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e5087	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e5092	I didn't vote at all, to be honest.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e5097	Then we'll take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e5113	During the debate, Mr Aukrust has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to amend the regulation on the use of motor vehicles in the open air and on ice watercourses so that municipalities are empowered to exercise discretion in measuring the 2.5 km limit in accordance with point (c) of the first paragraph of Section 5 of the Regulation. The actual running distance and topography shall be considered to be heavier than the distance of 2,5 km measured in the airline.’» Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e5141	In the course of the debate, a total of ten proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Åsmund Aukrust on behalf of the Workers' Party the proposals No 2-10, from Sandra Borch on behalf of the Centre Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2-10, from the Centre Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to extend the withdrawal of yew in the reindeer pastures prior to calving if the quotas for yews in the region have not been withdrawn during the ordinary licence hunt.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: "The government is asking the government to establish a standing permission for the killing of the Yves in grazing priority areas." Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to introduce standing permission for the killing of wolves entering pasture-priority areas and in areas of Sami domestic reindeer operation.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to amend the Roofing Game Regulation in such a way that, in situations where there is evidence of a greater damage over several years in the same area, it provides a general opening throughout the country in order to allow the killing of the king eagle prior to damage and without the existence of an acute damage situation, if there is a risk of major damage. Such permits shall be linked to a specific area and time without requirements for the identification of the harmful individual.’;» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to take the initiative to amend the rules on the indemnification of large predatory game, so that the killing laws can apply the same methods used by the State’s natureguard.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to submit proposals for a standing moulting permit during the grazing season for predators in predatory pastures and on inland pastures.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to grant a standing permission for gloat killing in pasture priority areas.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government requests the imposition of a standing permission for the killing of bears in pasture-priority areas.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘In case of harm to bear and yerv be allowed to use measures such as helicopter, drone, loose, on a driven neck dog and treated accordingly without delay.’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e5208	There is a vote on proposal No. One, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to launch pilot projects for the management of the Kings of Troms and Trøndelag during 2019.’ The centre party has notified subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e5232	The President assumes that the Central Party will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e5258	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e5321	The President proposes that referral No. 397 shall be sent to the Municipal and Administrative Committee. Mr Andersen has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e5328	We have asked that report No. 397, document 8:179 LSB paragraph 1 is dealt with in accordance with Rule 39(c). We do that because there is an urgent need for a stopover to Afghanistan. The last few days' practice has gone over all the boots. This concerns police work at all stages, money use and health professionals' handling. There is a need for soundness at all stages of return, and we therefore ask that this point be dealt with in accordance with Section 39(c) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e5335	Does anyone from the other party groups wish to speak for explanations of vote? The size of the sample is based on the method of treatment of Document 8:179 LS for 2018–2019. Alternatively, there will be a vote between the proposal by the President on comitology and the proposal by Karin Andersen on the procedure under Rule 39(c) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-06-20.ana.ud507e5351	Today's map has thus been processed. Before the meeting is cancelled, the president reminds us of the start of tomorrow's meeting. 9th@item: inlistbox Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
