ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-24.ana.ud509e25	Representatives of Sigbjørn Gülsvik, Lise Christoffersen, Ove Trellevik, Jette F. Christensen, Petter Eide and Marit Arnstad, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. Three permit applications are available: by the Workers' Group on the Permit of the Representative Svein Roald Hansen on 24 and 25 April in order to participate in the journey with the EFTA Parliamentary Committees to South Korea from the Workers' Group on sick leave for the representative of Hadia Tajik from 24 April until further notice from the Central Party Group on Care Allowance for the Representative of Willfred Nordlund from 24 April to 30 April On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For the Nordic counties: Kari Anne Bøkestad Andreassen For the Province of Rogaland: Julia Wong For Eastfold County: Siv Henriette Jacobsen
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-24.ana.ud509e95	Kari Anne Bøkestad Andreassen, Julia Wong and Siv Henriette Jacobsen are present and will take the seat. The representative, Emilie Enger Mehl, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-24.ana.ud509e102	On behalf of Marit Arnstad, Geir Inge Lien and myself, I would like to make a proposal for a public investigation into the criminal case chain.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-24.ana.ud509e107	The representative, Lars Haltbrecken, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-24.ana.ud509e112	On behalf of the representatives of Audun Lysbakken, Arne Nävra, Karin Andersen, Sheida Sangtarash, Freddy André Övstegård, Solfrid Lerbreck, Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes, Kari Elisabeth Kaski and myself, I would like to propose a public ownership of wind power.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-24.ana.ud509e117	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-24.ana.ud509e133	On Wednesday 17 April, the Stortinget received notice from the Prime Minister's office that Trine Skei Grande and Kjell-Børge Freiberg and Foreign Minister Ine M. Eriksen Soreide will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We'll start with the first main questions, from the representative Espen Barth Eide.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-24.ana.ud509e142	My question goes to the Minister of Oil and Energy and is about sea wind. In the government’s own perspective report, they state that the oil and gas industry will form a smaller part of the Norwegian economy from the end of the 2020s, that the demand from oil to other sectors will decrease, and that Norway will gradually become a more western country, with more industries without a base rate. We have built up a comprehensive supplier industry, and we have world-leading competence both in energy and at sea. How, then, do we take action to ensure that what we have built can also contribute to the transition to the renewable society? Of course, there are many answers to this question, and one of the answers is called liquid sea winds. It can contribute to our own and Europe's energy conversion. It just requires the kind of competence we already have in platforms, anti-corrosion knowledge, cable technology, positioning, operating systems, safety culture. It offers opportunities for value creation in industries that have to expect declining demand as the relative share of oil declines. In addition, we see that in liquid sea winds, there can be fewer conflicts than on land. We have had many recent examples of the level of conflict in building wind power on land. Wind power in coastal struts, i.e. bottom-resistant, can also be in confrontation with fishing and farming. In this situation, during its visit to the Arkona plant in Northern Germany, the Council of State Freiberg chose to say that sea wind would not be profitable in Norway. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State if the Council of State does not see the great potential of the development of liquid sea winds. Does he and the government intend to take any action to get to this? And isn't it that this can be just some of the answer to what Norway is going to live on in the long run?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-24.ana.ud509e155	The government is for the development of profitable renewable energy both at land and at sea. Onshore wind power is now the largest contribution to renewable energy in Norway. At the same time, it is important to strike a proper balance between the creation of value added and the development of renewable energy on the one hand, and the consideration of natural diversity, outdoors and local populations, etc. on the other side. The government has therefore, as the representative Barth Eide knows for sure, asked the NVE to make proposals for a national framework for wind power – which is under consideration. With regard to offshore wind power, we see technology development and lower costs. Therefore, the Ministry of Oil and Energy is now preparing the opening of one or two sea areas for wind. In the first place, this is mostly about industrial development. Sea wind offers exciting opportunities, where we can use the expertise of the Norwegian supplier industry. However, the difference in costs between wind power on land and at sea remains significant. At sea wind power will not be an alternative in the Norwegian power supply in the coming years. Marine wind power also offers great opportunities for Norwegian companies. Norway may build a unique experience in the oil and gas industry, shipping, the shipbuilding industry and renewable energy. And here's what I've said: here's not the market Norway, but the market is the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-24.ana.ud509e164	I thank you for your answer. I am pleased that the Council of State also sees that there is a potential in this, but I believe that there is a significantly greater potential than the State Council here expresses – for use both in Norway and internationally. I think – as very many in industry say, as the Swedish Shipowners' Association says, as LO says – that it is important to build a domestic market when it comes to positioning internationally. That is why I believe that there is room for a significantly more active industrial policy. Now I'm going to refrain from making a point that the predecessor of the Advance Party, Anders Lange's Party, would sell all the oil rights to Phillips Petroleum in 1968. Nor did the Council of State now have any responsibility for it. But here he has an excellent opportunity to make this impression right again by now taking a much more proactive industrial policy approach and making this part of what Norway is betting on, so when we know that what we live on today, a bit into the future won't be able to give us the same income. Will the Council of State lift its eyes and view this as a major industrial policy effort?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-24.ana.ud509e171	That's exactly what I said we're doing. We are going to outsource two areas of sea wind – precisely to facilitate the development of this industry. At the same time, we have to have greater ambitions than that. Norway is important. Norway has an opportunity. But the great opportunity is the world as far as the supplier industry is concerned. I record that the representative Espen Barth Eide pointed out that there are smaller conflicts at sea than on land. I'm not so sure it is. The sea also has its users. I would recommend the representative to take a trip along the coast. If you talk to those who use the sea every day to feed on their food and their communities, you'll find that it's not conflict free to have this at sea either.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-24.ana.ud509e178	There will be follow-up questions – first Else-May Botten Norderhus.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-24.ana.ud509e183	The councils talked about sea wind. He said that they have arranged for sea wind, but nothing more about how the government wants to get hold of it. It goes a little bit into the sequence, where Erna and the government talk about the green shift and green conversion – as a repeater – but are very little concrete about what you want to bet on. For my part, it is interesting to hear a little more about what the Council of State has to say about what the government has actually done to facilitate new industries in an important transition phase now – the new instruments that the government has put in place, which help to make it possible to move on with sea wind. It is very concrete: what has the government done so far to create and facilitate new industries, and what tools have been put in place, which is new, from 2013 until now?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-24.ana.ud509e190	We try on every occasion to be present in Norway and in the big world and promote the Norwegian supplier industry. It has been the joy of many times. Here, every day, the government helps to facilitate the Norwegian supplier industry to be part of this market – which is what they are actually out there in the world, where the sea wind market is. Then, of course, we also have very specific instruments. Among other things, we have NORWEP, which has a large part of the effort in this area. Then we have Enova, and I'm pointing out that there's an application from Enova for sea wind for the nice sum of 2.5 billion. SEK – 3 billion. kr in subsidies to realise such a project, and that is a little about profitability.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-24.ana.ud509e197	What has the government done, was the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-24.ana.ud509e202	Sandra Borch - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-24.ana.ud509e208	I have to say that I was very surprised last week when we could read in a number of media that the Minister of Oil and Energy believes that it is not a market for sea wind in Norway. I have noticed the Government's response that it is too expensive, and that technology is too immature, but the state's task is precisely to facilitate the energy and climate technologies of the future, and to bear the risk of such projects. I thought the government was more offensive in the bet on sea wind. Both in the Energy Communication and in a proposal from the Progress Party and the Right, there is just a call for a more offensive effort on sea wind. It doesn't look like the government's following up. Wind power is currently high, and we have recently witnessed very many conflicts related to wind power on land. Does the Council not see that he can save himself for very many problematic land conflicts on land if the government helps to reduce costs on Norwegian sea winds?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-24.ana.ud509e215	Norwegian companies are in the forefront of the development of liquid sea winds, and significant values are exported for the development of offshore wind power in other countries, i.e. in the big world. And when I point to the wind power at sea and profitability: if that's how the Center Party is concerned about the power price, which I've realized they are, I'm just referring to the project that Equinor has requested as his demonstration project, where you need 2.5 billion. SEK – 3 billion. kr in subsidies to realise it. It tells us something about the profitability of these types of projects today, and a kilowatt price, if you take it into the Norwegian power system, which is going to give completely different power prices than what we see today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-24.ana.ud509e222	Lars Haltbrecken – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-24.ana.ud509e227	The oil industry has benefited for several years from good financial arrangements, such as: the read-back mechanism. Offshore wind power is, as the Council of State also says itself, something more expensive than land-based wind power. My question to the Council of State is: What economic incentives will the government use to make a strong investment in offshore wind power in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-24.ana.ud509e232	The answer to that is what I said instead. The government is for the development of profitable renewable energy at land and at sea. That means that it should be done without subsidies, but as I mentioned in my previous answer, we have an instrument for the development of industry, as this is, that works very well, which I hope the representative Haltbrecken agrees with, which is called Enova.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-24.ana.ud509e237	Une Bastholm – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-24.ana.ud509e242	I am very pleased that the Workers' Party is offensive in terms of sea winds. It was also the government parties a year ago when we together decided in this Chamber that Norway should bet on sea wind. Marine wind can become a very important industrial venture in Norway, and it can be a very important piece in the green shift. We have great wind resources, and we have the skills needed to become an important actor in this area. Both Aker Solutions and Equinor are ready to bet, and I am sure that also the Council of State Freiberg can be sure that both of these companies are engaged in value creation. I find it confusing when the Council of State, on the one hand, says that this could be an important industrial area, but then it shouldn't be something we should be able to make money on. We're going to have an industrial investment, but it's not going to be something we think can be profitable. My question is whether the Council of State agrees that Norway has a responsibility to contribute to the competitiveness of sea wind – both land-based, bottom-up and floating – and thus contribute to a green shift in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-24.ana.ud509e251	This is also why we have an instrument to help those who want to help develop this industry. There is now an application from Enova and Enova has contributed in other areas in the field of wind. I fully agree with the representative that there are opportunities for sea wind, but the really great opportunities are global – in the big world – in the technology supplier industry. Once again, I would just like to warn that there is no conflict with sea wind at sea in Norway. If you travel along the coast and talk to those who use the sea every day to feed and maintain the communities – that is, the fishermen – you will get clear feedback that this is not problem-free. That's why we have to do this in a thorough and good way, which we're also doing in terms of new areas we're going to spend.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-24.ana.ud509e258	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-24.ana.ud509e263	My question goes to the Minister of Culture. In the media message recently presented by the Minister of Culture, she speaks beautifully and beautifully about the importance of our free press and our great media diversity, not least for the public-enlightened conversation, debate and democracy. The downturn was therefore great when the rest of the message did not contain one really big measure of ensuring that diversity in the future, and it was in a pressurised time for the media, with the transition to digitisation and ad failure in relation to Google and Facebook and the pressure from the emergence of ‘fake news’ and alternative media. The only thing that came was a bet on small locals, but then by taking away others who are now getting press support. The centre party is pleased that locals are being invested – that is not so – but the joy was drowned quickly since there were no major measures for the media in a press situation, and that suddenly the newspapers that really stand for our media diversity are being hit, as no. The 2 newspapers and meaningful newspapers such as the Newspaper, the Class struggle, the Day, Our Land and Nations. I really don't understand how the minister can justify getting rid of maybe the most important opinion papers and newspapers that provide our media diversity, to such an extent, while at the same time hitting them with a new postal code. How can this be justified by the Minister of Culture? This is not the way to secure the media diversity we are so proud of.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-24.ana.ud509e272	The government has submitted a media message containing both bets and new, fresh money. I'd like to contribute to that information. We provide predictability over a longer period of time, and we also say that we are going to add new money into the new system. But we also see that it is an important democratic challenge that today we have many geographically white spots in Norway that are not covered by local media. I can explain the analysis that's behind it. In any democracy, for democracy to work, people must be able to have channels of frustration. It's important. Anyone standing along a holed road, on his rural road, and clinging his hand in his pocket, should have a journalist to call and say that this really doesn't work out. The fact that we now have many geographical spots where you don't have them helps undermine the confidence of the democracy that we have. That's why the government has decided that we want to turn the support, to make sure that we have local media all over the country, and that everyone has a journalist to call when there's something they're frustrated about in their community. That's exactly why we're contributing nearly 800 million. kr to lubricate the conversion in the Post to ensure that all localisations are issued in three days, three fixed days, which is a considerable improvement in relation to what the Post actually wanted. So we're betting on local media. I wonder about concepts that have been created for a slightly different time, such as'sensory newspapers'. I don't think the Evening Post likes not to be called a meaningful newspaper, or that Tronder-Avisa or Namdalsavisa won't be allowed to call themselves that. We read newspapers in a different way in the digital world, and maybe we also have to have a different type of breakdown of newspapers than what we've had in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-24.ana.ud509e282	We can discuss the names of the different newspapers, but that's not important. What's important is that the Minister of Culture now makes it appear that they're actually putting money in and trying to help the media by cutting the distribution from five days to three days. The media industry itself has been incredibly critical of this, but you have not listened to those you have listened to the Post. I get worried when our media policy is not governed by the Minister of Culture, but by the Minister of Transport. And what about the other "white spots" that arise now, the new ones that arise with this government proposal? For the meaningful newspapers are not going to be able to bet on the districts now. They say they have to bet centrally. There are a lot of major local viewers who are not going to reach out with their daily publications. They are forced either to release only a few days a week, or to lose lots of subscribers. Will it strengthen our journalism? Maybe you can call your locals, but what about all the regional newspapers, and what about those who have a slightly different view than the evening post?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-24.ana.ud509e289	That's why we're spending 800 million. to strengthen Posten's distribution in order to achieve the digital transformation needed by the media. The downside has been huge. I think that's $800 million. NOK is a little bit of money. I think it could work so that we get to the transition that we actually need, in order to get more digital distribution in the districts too, along with spending money to help them get the opportunity to make a technical transition through the innovation support system, and together with trying to contribute to greater diversity on that side. It is also important that we extend the NRK’s mission to the ‘white spots’ both thematically and geographically, that they should have a special responsibility to cover the whole country in this way, plus that the money left in the conversion of the licensing office is provided as an additional subsidy to the press support. I think this won't be a big cut for anyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-24.ana.ud509e294	There will be follow-up questions – first Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-24.ana.ud509e299	I repeat, you don't contribute 800 million. kr, you're already cutting a lot to save money. That's the one. Secondly, I did not get a complete answer to the new ‘white spots’, for the combination of a weak media message and a district hostile postal law challenges not only those newspapers I was in, but also the regional newspapers. I have recently been in contact with several of them. Telemarksavias, which is the largest in the county, depends on their 1,000 paper subscribers, who are now being hit. This is dramatic for them, says the editor. The editor of the Sunnmørspost says the same thing, where a total of 1,500 of her paper subscribers are hit by new mail laws – including her bottom line. So it's all the Nordic newspapers that have now strongly criticised the minister, for both the postal law and the fact that only a few of them are supported in the media message, will hit them very hard. We're going to have poorer journalism in the districts, and we're going to have a class break-up in the future between those who in densely built strips get access to newspapers daily, and those who in the districts are still just going to get a few days. How can a Minister from the Left thus actively contribute to a greater class distinction between city and country also within journalism?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-24.ana.ud509e304	It's not like all the media we're reading now, we're reading on paper. Most people don't. Of them, less than 30 years old, no one says they have paper newspapers as their main source of news. We are spreading news in completely different areas, and it is a little surprising to have to inform about it in the storeroom in 2019. We have to make sure that our papers come across on the digital platforms. That's why we have conversion agents. We'll give them time to access the digital platforms. That's why we buy postal services equivalent to nearly 800 million. kr, so it's not like we're not saving. We buy services from the Post Office. The item operates in a free market. This is regulated within the EEA. We need to spend money to get those services. We're going to spend 132 million. kr for TV 2 to have a public broadcasting job and head office outside Oslo. We are now saying that we are going to strengthen support for local media. We're going to increase support.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-24.ana.ud509e309	Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-24.ana.ud509e314	I just have to say that I think it's absolutely amazing that the Minister of Culture thinks it's worth standing here and teaching me whether or not people have switched to digital media. Does she seriously think I don't know those numbers, or does she? I must stress that, for example, a part of the newspapers that are now to be hit extra by being ignored in the media message is price-winning in terms of accessing digital platforms. They work very hard to get it done. They're asking for more time. The National Media Association is asking for more time. The journalism team asks for more time for these newspapers, and the newspapers themselves ask for it. But the Minister of Transport listens to the Post, and the Minister of Culture will not listen to the media either. Why can't they have more time? I don't understand why they can't get big action, in the media message, or get proper mail delivery for a little longer than this?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-24.ana.ud509e321	It was by no means an attempt to be a teacher, but it is to relate to some facts. And the fact is this: the post would wind this up to one postal day of the year. We have to go in and buy more services. We'll buy for three years, it'll cost almost 800 million. kr. We go in and say we want to reverse the press support to make sure we don't have geographic white spots. We will then give priority to the local media, because we believe that they are important for further development. That's why we put more money in the pot, so that we can prioritize the local media. At the same time, we see that the media conversion has been huge, that is, our media houses have been in a huge transformation. And now we're starting to see the results of it because digitization is giving other types of subscriptions, but we also see that business models both say that the results in some of these media houses are quite impressive, and the leadership salaries that are taken out in some of these media houses are also quite impressive. So I think we're in a good, positive trend, and we're just going to make sure to back it up further. I think that, for example, what we did on VAT exemptions, maybe the most important thing we've done for the conversion of Norwegian media.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-24.ana.ud509e330	Marit Arnstad – to the next follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-24.ana.ud509e335	We all know that the media industry is in a painful transition, and that there are going to be major changes. Just because the Minister of Culture went so high on the track and talked about the democratic importance of local and regional newspapers, the duality of government policies becomes so striking. One presents a media message with great views, and at the same time one chooses to reduce the distribution system in the way that one has done. It's going to hit – and it's also saying the media industry clearly – all the newspapers that come out more than three days ago: local newspapers, regional newspapers, meaningful national newspapers. All of these have responded. MBL has responded, Nordic editors have responded, Amedia has responded, Polaris has responded. Does the Council of State take this seriously at all? Or is the answer all the way to the compensation scheme, and then the council believes that there's no problem, that it won't mean any painful grip, that it won't mean anything to the 40-50 pst. Who today gets the paper on paper?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-24.ana.ud509e340	There have been huge changes in Norwegian media. It's going to be safe to do that in the future too, sail if you're starting to find new business models on the digital market as well. That we save the media by buying mail delivery in the future and prioritizing it to that extent, I don't believe in anything. That's why we've been very fussy when we've been saying three years. If you look three years back in the media world, it was quite different. Now we've told them they're going to have three years. We've spent 800 million. kr on it, and we have three days of distribution because we think it's the locals that are most important. Then when we get those newspapers, and many newspapers have said that this is actually going to help them increase their distribution, because they have a distribution that's good.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-24.ana.ud509e346	Anette Trettebergstuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-24.ana.ud509e351	The local paper is too many of the main sources of news and information. It has high confidence in the readers. When we know that more and more people are getting their news mainly presented through social media, and that this means that we are less confronted with opinions other than our own – opinions other than those within our own echo chamber – I think that locals are becoming more important and more important, and that the government has also made the media announcement firm. Then it's paradoxical that at the same time you tighten bones under the locals by cutting in the distribution. I think that the media industry can change and digitize as much as they can, but people still want the local view on paper. The Council of State will not respond to her intention to consider alternative solutions, but will the Council look at alternative distribution solutions for those who do not live in town and who can use mail in stores and receive newspaper offers?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-24.ana.ud509e358	I think the representative of Trettebergstuen has the important perspective on what is the challenge in the media industry, right now it was connected to the echo chamber and that we need the local journalists who can actually call. We like to discuss how to find good solutions for each newspaper. Clearly, it is possible for some newspapers to complement the distribution currently available with their own distribution channels. They've told me that if they get some time, they'll be able to develop it. But it's also important that we have a public broadcaster in such a digital world as we are now – a strong public broadcaster that can both counterpower against the echo cameras that are and ensure that local news is distributed. We see that the NRK takes that role more places you don't have locally. There they act both as suppliers to other media houses and ensure that the local news is lifted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-24.ana.ud509e363	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-24.ana.ud509e368	My question goes to the Minister of Oil and Energy. On 1 and 2 April this year, State Secretary Rikard Gaarder Knutsen attended an informal meeting of EU energy ministers in Bucuresti. Norway has signed a declaration on, inter alia: gas infrastructure development. In a press release after the meeting, Knutsen says that it is “important to recognise the role of the gas both in the short and long term” before he made an announcement: ‘We have long called for gas perspectives when the EU has discussed energy decarbonisation.’ Yes, it's a bit of a perspective to demand when the energy sector is going to decarbonise, or – in another way – when we're going to get rid of fossil energy. Gas is still a fossil energy source. Therefore, I thought it was quite obvious that the prospects for gas in a fossil-free world were rather poor. But back to the declaration signed by Norway. Indeed, several EU countries would not sign the declaration because they thought it had too weak ambitions in the field of climate change. Both the EU Commission and 11 countries, including France, Germany, Sweden, Denmark and Italy refused to sign since the declaration did not mention a proposal that the EU should have net zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050. So my simple question is, how did the representative of the Norwegian Government come up with the proposals to strengthen the climate requirements of the opinion that Norway signed?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-24.ana.ud509e382	The government wants Norway to be a driver of international climate change work, where, of course, we also need to cut our own emissions. Among other things, we reported pursue a strengthened climate change objective for the United Nations in 2020 to meet the Paris Agreement. In the Granavolden platform, the government says that Norway’s non-quota emissions should be reduced by at least 45 pst. in 2030, and that the government will work towards an overall EU level of ambition of 55 pst. This follows the government up on the arenas where you are. It is also true that precisely when it comes to achieving what is a global challenge, and which needs to be addressed globally, namely the climate challenge, Norwegian gas plays an important role in this picture.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-24.ana.ud509e387	I unfortunately did not hear that I received an answer to my question. I did not ask about Norway's targets for greenhouse gas emissions, I asked how the Norwegian representative at the Bucharest meeting dealt with the proposals that came to reinforce the climate requirements of the opinion that Norway signed, but as a number of EU countries and the EU Commission would not sign because it was too weak in the climate field. So I repeat the question: how did the Norwegian representative come up with the proposals to strengthen climate change requirements? Were these proposals supported by Norway or not?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-24.ana.ud509e392	Then I refer to what I said to the representative: the government will work to increase the EU's overall level of ambition to 55 pst, and where the government is represented, it will contribute to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-24.ana.ud509e397	Lars Haltbrecken – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-24.ana.ud509e402	It's answered with enough non-answering. We're going to have to try to move on. Norway chose to separate teams with the EU countries that usually represent the most ambitious climate policy, at the meeting in Bucuresti. Proposals were made to strengthen the climate objectives of the declaration, but were not included. Several sources have explained to the media that several countries would not sign the declaration because they believe it opens up to weaken the EU climate targets by 2050. This government likes to boast about the international reputation of Norway in the field of climate change. The question then is: how does the Minister of Oil and Energy think that separation between the most ambitious countries in the EU will affect Norway's reputation in the field of climate change?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-24.ana.ud509e411	Climate challenges are global and need to be addressed globally. Globally, there is also a discussion on how to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement, in line with the discussion at home. I just refer to what was the answer to my previous question: The government has an ambitious climate policy for a global climate challenge that needs to find its global solution. Then we use the arenas you have globally to contribute to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-24.ana.ud509e419	Lars Haltbrecken – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-24.ana.ud509e424	We are witnessing today to an oil and energy minister who, no matter what it is asked, whether it is offshore sea wind or Norway's signing an agreement or an opinion in Bucura?ti, comes with the same answer to all questions. We'll have to try one more time. Unfortunately, it is not the first time the government is trying to weaken EU climate policy on renewable energy and energy efficiency. It's done that many times before. The reason is enough that it fears that the climate requirements will become so strong that they will close the door for the export of Norwegian gas. Therefore, I would like to ask the Minister if it is more important for Norway to ensure a long-term gas market than to contribute to the EU's implementation of as large and rapid emission reductions as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-24.ana.ud509e431	The answer to that is no. Norway adopts Norwegian policies and then the EU and the respective countries adopt their policies. That is probably a premise on the question that I hope the representative can agree with. Then all serious analyses, including those from the International Energy Agency, clearly show that even if you reach the 2-degree target, there will be a need for oil and gas in the energy mix. I believe that from the Norwegian side we have every reason to be proud of the standard on Norwegian base, both oil and gas, in terms of greenhouse gas emissions. Then it is good that fossils come from Norway, with the greenhouse gas emissions that Norway has.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-24.ana.ud509e438	Lars Haltbrecken – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-24.ana.ud509e443	I thank you for the answer, and here we actually got a no on the question of whether it was more important for Norway to ensure a long-term gas market than to help the EU implement as much and fast a cut as possible. So we finally got an answer. But then I am left with the question: why did we then support an opinion that promotes the use of gas, but which was rejected by several EU countries because it had too weak climate requirements?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-24.ana.ud509e450	Gass is part of the solution for achieving the objectives of the Paris Agreement. A global challenge needs to be solved globally. And it was not just Norway that supported it. There are different discussions in different countries about what kind of instruments you want to use. But let there be no doubt: the government uses all the arenas you're on to promote offensive climate policy. In fact, Norway also has an important role to play here, both in terms of technology, in terms of knowledge, and in terms of the importance of gas to Europe and the achievement of the objectives of the Paris Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-24.ana.ud509e455	Espen Barth Eide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-24.ana.ud509e460	I followed this change of words with a certain interest because the government has just submitted a message that we will cooperate with the EU in the implementation of common climate objectives, and I am then elected as the case rapporteur for it. My very clear impression was that we should have a common climate policy with the European Union, not that the European Union should have its own and we should have ours, as the Council of State now said. It would be nice if we could solve that right now. So I think it is quite important that the Council of State and the government go into exactly what the representative Mr. Haltbrecken correctly pointed out, that there is a development in the EU that is not necessarily compatible with our idea that gas will be the bridge to the renewable society in the very long term, but that one can move faster – at least without carbon capture and storage and transformation into hydrogen. My strong recommendation is that the Council of State is a little more involved in what happened at this meeting, because our future domestic market is primarily the European market. We're going from being an exporter of oil, which is a world commodity, to being an exporter of gas, which is a regional product. So the call is for a little bit more attention to be paid to it by the Council of State. The question is whether he wants to do it – inspired by the word change we now had.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-24.ana.ud509e469	I'm just referring to what I've already said. Gas plays an important role in achieving the objectives of the Paris Agreement. In fact, I also understand that the Workers' Party agrees. Let there be no doubt: the government uses all the opportunities we have, together with the EU, to promote policies and instruments precisely in order to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement. There is a debate in Norway, there is a debate in Europe, and there is a debate between the different countries on what the instruments are – what the right means are. But I believe that there is a great deal of support in the EU and from one of the world's most serious analysts that gas plays an important role.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-24.ana.ud509e476	The question now was probably not what we think about this here in Norway, because there has been a coherent political message from a lot of changing governments here that gas is just this bridge. But the question that was raised, which I believe is most timely, is whether they agree with it in the EU. And the question is: Where in the internal discussion in the EU are we now placing ourselves, as we have decided – and will soon be adopting in the Storting – that we should coordinate our climate policy with Europe? If that is the case that not everyone who agrees with it, is it the case that the Council of State believes that our policy should be to convince them to use more gas, thus postponing the transition to completely renewable sources, or does the Council of State want Norway to be at the forefront of the most climate-progressive field in the EU? It is quite right, as the Council of State says, that there are different views in the EU. The question we're looking for is where Norway wants to get into that discussion, not what we mean ourselves – but where we want to lie in the discussion that is in the community we now choose to go into when we're going to coordinate our climate policy with the EU by 2030.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-24.ana.ud509e481	As a state council, I try to be as out-of-office as possible, both in Norway and in Europe, and talk to our close neighbours. I was last in Easter in Germany, when it was sea wind, and I have been elsewhere in Europe. The topic of discussion in the dialogue with Norway is not that you want less gas, you want the gas you get today, you want it in the future, and you want security of supply for it – because I have seen clearly that the European Union is pointing out that Norwegian gas is part of the solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-24.ana.ud509e487	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-24.ana.ud509e492	My question goes to the Minister for Climate and Environment. We're going to continue with a clear-glass look at 2050. Finnish and German climate economists have just published a report that shows that transition to 100 pst. renewable energy is possible by 2050, and the only thing that stands in the way of achieving it is political will. Massive electrification combined with large-scale solar, wind, water and other renewable energies can therefore replace any use of coal, oil and gas by 2050 if politicians want and dare. The report also shows that it is more cost-effective. This spring we have seen a historical climate exposure also among children and young people – towards the government’s climate policy – led by 16-year-old Greta Thunberg. Only here in Norway did 40,000 young people across the country on March 22 stop in the distribution of new oil licences, and more demonstrations are coming. The government has replied with the opposite. In January, the number of new oil licenses was again recorded. On Monday, the government parties, the Workers' Party and the Centre are voting for the further development of the Johan Sverdrup field, which will deliver enormous emissions. Only the oil taken up by Johan Sverdrup will give as much as 25 times Norway’s emissions today over the lifetime. Just before Easter, Fiji’s vice-president criticized the Norwegian double morale of seeking more and more oil, while working internationally for other countries to cut their emissions. The Council of State Freiberg pointed out earlier in the debate that climate change will be addressed globally, and I would just like to remind you that we do not have such a global body to solve this for us. The global solution is that all countries take responsibility for the emissions they are responsible for. The oil in Norway is the largest individual sector contributing to those emissions. How will the Council of State contribute to the world's 100 pst. renewable by 2050?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-24.ana.ud509e503	Now, in the same way, I would like to make it clear that our contribution to the Paris Agreement is based on the fact that we are still going to have an active petroleum policy. I also see that there is broad support for this policy in the Stortinget. New investment, including in the oil and gas industries, will be needed for decades to come to meet the world’s energy needs. This includes, among other things: because fields are emptied over time. All analyses and industry interest show that Norwegian resources are in fact competitive globally. There is no reason why our resources should not also be profitable in the future. The government is going to continue the quota obligation and CO2 tax as our main instruments in the Norwegian climate policy. Through the EU ETS, oil companies, together with other businesses, contribute to reducing emissions in the 43 pst system. from 2005 to 2030. With the obligation of allowances and our high CO2 tax, the petroleum sector is facing strict climate instruments. This works. Emissions per year In fact, tonnes of unit on Norwegian base are significantly lower than the average for other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-24.ana.ud509e510	Most of the emissions from oil and gas activities occur when they are burned abroad. When the Council of State Freiberg points out that we need more oil and gas to meet the world's energy needs, he does not specify any sources, but I think he refers to the International Energy Agency, which is notorious for underestimating the development of renewable energy. They've done that year after year, especially in the case of the sun. So the government chooses to rely only on those who are most optimistic on behalf of Norwegian oil and gas, with a high economic risk for Norway. Because we have a lot of different scenarios, but then you choose to believe only those who say that this is going to continue to be a performance that we can trust. On Tuesday, even Equinor's renewable manager, Pál Eiterheim, said that the oil and gas industries had a date stamping on them. Norway could have contributed to the reduction of emissions by other means, e.g. by large-scale sea-winding. My question is: Does the Council recognise that there is considerable uncertainty as to whether oil and gas will contribute positively to the reduction of emissions and thus continue to be a profitable performance for Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-24.ana.ud509e521	I record that it is discussed when the end date for oil and gas will be. But I'm referring to things like, among other things, The International Energy Agency, which I see clearly as a recognised analyst, points out that there will be a need for oil and gas in the energy mix for decades to come. It is true that much solar and wind power is being developed in Europe. That's good, that's what we owe it to, and it's going to be expanded even more. But in an energy system that consists of the sun and the wind, it is now that the sun does not always shine – at least not where I come from, nor in Europe – and it does not always blow. Then there must be other regulators in addition to these. Norwegian gas also plays an important role – in addition to the climate dimension.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-24.ana.ud509e528	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-24.ana.ud509e533	Then the Council of State Freiberg can go, because my question is to the Minister of Foreign Affairs. The horrendous terrorist action in Sri Lanka shows how important it is to fight terrorism. Terrorist attacks on religious collections, whether against churches in Sri Lanka or the mosque in New Zealand, tell us how important it is to fight against the extremism that has also hit our country so hard. ISIL has taken on the blame for the cruel attack on Sri Lanka. Home-turned xenophobic warriors are obviously a security challenge. That is why we need to ensure that those who have come down to fight for the ISIL terrorist organisation are held responsible for their actions. In Norway, we do not let our children suffer for the poor choices of their parents. That's why we have to take care of children no matter what their parents have done. There have been very different signals from the different government parties about whether to pick up innocent children from foreign warriors. That is why I am pleased that the Prime Minister for the first time yesterday, after a statement in the Evening Post on orphan children in a refugee camp, gave a whole new signal that Norway should help orphan children home to Norway. My question is as follows: Was it really only yesterday, after the evening post wrote about the matter, that the Norwegian authorities knew that there were orphan Norwegian children in refugee camps, or has this been known to the authorities for a long time?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-24.ana.ud509e546	The government has been working for a long time to get an overview of the situation for the children of foreign fighters. We have also, as the representative Huitfeldt has also heard, sought solutions for children. We have now chosen to give priority to the orphan children, because they are the most vulnerable. It is important to stress, as Huitfeldt's representative also does, that adult people must be responsible for their actions, but the children in the camps are not responsible for their being there. They're victims of parents' choices. There has been a challenging situation, and that is why we work with other related countries, including the United Kingdom. the Nordics. We also have a good and close dialogue with, among other things, the international relief organisations and humanitarian organisations to look at the possibility of contributing to practical solutions. The situation in the camps and in Syria and Iraq, as the representative well knows, is uncertain in the sense that, on the part of the Norwegian authorities, there is no final list or overview of how many have travelled, how many have lost their lives, how many are left, and how many children they have had. The reason for this is quite obvious: it is not reported that you have children for example. the Norwegian public register or Norwegian authorities. It is also one of the reasons why we and all other countries have used and spent time monitoring the situation as best they can. Yesterday, the grandparents mentioned in the article contacted the U.D. We're very happy about that. We also encourage others who believe they are in the same situation, and who may have grandchildren or other relatives who are orphans in Syria or Iraq, to make contact. We will now follow up on the contact with the grandparents and, if necessary, others who contact them.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-24.ana.ud509e557	The government has met with very strong criticism from the government parties in Stortinget regarding this matter, and also from members of the government. But my question is whether this is the case – I asked the question initially and did not really get the answer – that it was only yesterday, after the evening post wrote about these orphaned children, that Norwegian authorities became familiar with it? Or have these children been known to Norwegian authorities for a long time?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-24.ana.ud509e562	For the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, it was the first time we heard about these children when they were mentioned. But I repeat, as I have done in the past, that there is a great deal of uncertainty about both the number and the verification of this, and therefore it has been very important for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs – in consultation with other departments – to contribute to the solutions that we need to find in order to bring out orphaned children, also to verify identity. We can't risk taking out children who are not Norwegian citizens. Nor can we risk situations where we have parents who are alive, but the children are taken out. We have no rights to that, we don't have jurisdiction to do that, and that's exactly why it's so important that this work continues with full strength. But I want to stress, as I've done before, that this is a complex work, and that's why we have a lot of attention on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-24.ana.ud509e567	There will be follow-up questions – first Anniken Huitfeldt.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-24.ana.ud509e573	I think we are all aware that this is complex and that we need to get the identity of those who may come to Norway. What the prime minister does is she makes a very clear distinction between orphans and other children, who are also innocent. Clearly, in another country, you cannot pick up the child from your parents against their will. But does the Foreign Minister agree with the Prime Minister that only the orphan children we are going to help Norway? Or is this true of all the children who have been in a very, very difficult situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-24.ana.ud509e578	Our very clear priority is the orphan children, because they are in a very vulnerable and difficult situation where they are, in a camp without caregivers. As one of several emergency measures, we have now also strengthened transfers to the Red Cross, so that they can provide better health care in the camps — also an important contribution in this context. As I was in a previous answer, it is that if children have parents alive who they are with, it is also possible to pick up these children, but then it requires the consent of the parents. We depend on that, because we have no authority to take children from parents if they don't want them to. If it were to be such that parents, for example: if a Norwegian child is to come to Norway for health care, it will be possible to consent to it by parents.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-24.ana.ud509e585	Martin Kolberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-24.ana.ud509e590	I believe that of what we hear from the foreign minister now, very well and very much understandable. There is no doubt that the Minister for Foreign Affairs also believes that Norway should be a humanistic country, with the background to what she says. It's fine. For my part, I grew up at a time when we talked about the German children, and it took several decades before we managed to apologize to them. The historical error must not be repeated. We have a very strong practice in Norway to assist Norwegian citizens abroad even when they have committed crimes. We're using millions of dollars and strong diplomatic means to solve the problems for them, as far as it's possible. Nevertheless, until recently, the Prime Minister has created uncertainty about the pressure in this matter, and that is the concrete question: Is the reason why there has been disagreement in the government about the profile of this work?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-24.ana.ud509e599	I do not think it has been unclear about this work, and we have worked very intensively on this matter from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs – as I said. We also worked very intensively throughout Easter. We have close dialogue with other countries, especially Nordic countries. We're going to have a new meeting at the Nordic level at the end of this week, simply because most European and Nordic countries are experiencing very many of the same challenges in finding practical solutions. That is also one of the reasons we have had a lot of contact with, among other things. The International Red Cross Committee, to see if they can assist, inter alia: DNA testing, so that we are sure of the identity, and that the orphan children brought to Norway have Norwegian citizenship or are Norwegian citizens. For reasons of principle, it has proved difficult for the International Red Cross Committee. We have full respect for that. Then we have to find other ways to do it, and that's among the things we're now working on. It is this complexity and the situation on the ground that makes this work time-consuming – it is for all countries – but we are working with full intensity on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-24.ana.ud509e606	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-24.ana.ud509e611	Then the Council of State Freiberg can come up, because my question goes to the Minister of Oil and Energy. The centre party has been and is concerned about the construction of the Northconnect foreign table from Norway to the United Kingdom, a clean export cable, a private cable that will lead to higher electricity prices both for families and for Norwegian industry. Just 1.5 months ago, the Council of State was in the Questionnaire and had to answer for Statnet's ownership of foreign houses, the concession treatment of NorthConnect and the government's agreement with the Workers' Party on these matters. The council's response was not very elucidating, to say it carefully. Therefore, there is still an open question about NorthConnect getting a concession and whether the Workers' Party and the Government agree on their agreement in Stortinget. Since the Council of State has now chosen to come so frequently in the Stortinges Question Time, I want to give him an opportunity to clean up all the uncertainties. Therefore I ask again: does the Council of State want Statnett to own and operate all future foreign tables, and will this have consequences for the concessional treatment of NorthConnect?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-24.ana.ud509e620	As I said last time I was in the spontaneous Question Time: There is no doubt about who will own future possible foreign connections. It has actually been decided by the Storting. So I've informed Stortinget, in line with what the Stortinget has decided, that changes in the law on energy law are going to be made after NorthConnect has completed the concession treatment. It is such that the treatment of NorthConnect’s application is under evaluation in NVE. When the NVE has completed its assessment, it will be sent to the Ministry of Oil and Energy, which will then complete the concession treatment. No decision has been taken either to build the cable or to reject the application. It will be decided upon once we have received the assessment, followed normal management practices and done a good and thorough job – then we will conclude.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-24.ana.ud509e629	Once again, I notice that the Council of State cannot give clear or unambiguous answers. So we are in the special situation that the government and the Workers' Party have concluded an agreement in Stortinget that Statnett should own and operate all foreign tables. And then the council leaves it hanging in the air whether this will have consequences for NorthConnect or not. My question is: can the Council of State explain what is the reason why the agreement with the Workers' Party cannot be implemented immediately?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-24.ana.ud509e634	I perceive that there is no disagreement between the government parties and the Labour Party on this issue. Then I refer to what is formulated in an agreement that the Storting knows very well, where the Storting has made some decisions on this. Let there be no doubt that the Storting has decided that future foreign connections will be owned by Statnet.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-24.ana.ud509e639	There will be follow-up questions – Social violence Vedum.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-24.ana.ud509e645	Unfortunately, the Right Party and the Progress Party got the Labour Party to say that Norway would join the Acer and give power over Norwegian energy policy from Norwegian people elected to elections in Norway to an EU that the Norwegian people have said no to twice. Then the Progress Party, when they've been in government, has been very clear. Tord Lien said when Kjell-Børge Freiberg was State Secretary, that he was tired of low power prices. It was the statement to Tord Lien that he wanted a higher electricity price in Norway. It is clear that some of the most important thing Tord Lien did then was to change the law that made it possible to build a new NorthConnect cable. That's how important it was for Tord Lien to get to it. In addition, the Progress Party has increased the electricity charge by more than 36 pst. since they got the power. Is Kjell-Børge Freiberg, who was the State Secretary in 2016, in agreement with what Tord Lien said that we are tired of low electricity prices in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-24.ana.ud509e650	There is a short cut in the question from the representative, because it is now that when you charge high power prices, it can definitely have nothing to do with NorthConnect. NorthConnect is not adopted, NorthConnect is not connected to either place. Neither are the other two cables under construction. So if we can agree that cables that are not built do not affect the power price, at least you've come a little bit on the way to that debate. Norwegian authorities decide on concessions for production facilities, electricity networks and also foreign tables. Neither ACER nor any other EU body will or may be empowered to impose anything in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-24.ana.ud509e655	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-24.ana.ud509e660	Norway is a winter sports nation with some of the world's best performers bred by the community, as every year, through billions, rates of grassroots sport, developing talents through the participation of all young people in the city and in the countryside. The Norwegian people gather about the winter sports events, both in the loop when it happens, and also in front of the TV. The great and small winter sports experiences should be for everyone, not just for the few. Therefore, it is so sad that a large part of the rights to winter sports can be left behind payment walls in 2021, after the recent loss of rights by the NRK in favour of the Nordic Entertainment Group, which has again bought them from a Chinese media company. It is primarily a pity that the international arbitration court has chosen to do this, because they are of course in their full right, and it is really not our table as politicians, but it is not said that we can do anything. Firstly, sport needs to be challenged to address this in a better way. When the Workers' Party ruled in government last, we were given a list and a code of rules on large, important events that would go on channels accessible to all, because the EU broadcasting directive opens it up. This list believes that we need to look at whether it should be expanded, in the light of what has now happened. The Council of State is both Minister of Media and Sports, but has not yet said anything about this matter. Will the Council of State do something to help make large, important sporting experiences available to everyone in the future, and not just to the few?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-24.ana.ud509e669	I want to start by saying that I share the representative's wish that all the major sporting events we watch on TV are something that most people should experience. It is an important motivation and an important driving force for many young people to have role models to reach out for. Everyone who has heard a little eight-year-old walk around and around the house talking about themselves as a big sportsman, and being his own commentator, knows how important it is for the motivation. That's why we want everyone to have the best possible access, but that's still how we can't intervene. Now the representative also called for this list. I have it in front of me, and we're updating it. It is reported to the Media Authority, so you have an overview of which of the major events everyone has access to. We can't intervene, and I don't think it's right that the NRK should always overtown. There is no wish for these sports rights to be so expensive, and our public broadcaster is a driver to get the prices up. So I think it's true that the NRK actually sometimes says no, this became too expensive. We have also experienced that Discovery, who last bought the rights to the Winter Olympics, actually managed to implement it quite well. There was little criticism of the implementation of the OL, and they were also able to manage the rights in a very broad way. We still don't know how much of the events that are behind payment walls, or whether you might use OL and other important sporting events to open up new markets by giving access free of charge, so people understand what offers you're actually giving on that channel. So I see that I can't intervene. I'm going to review these lists, and the media surveillance will also monitor the event lists in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-24.ana.ud509e684	In addition, it is problematic that those who have now bought the rights, the Nordic Entertainment Group, via this Chinese media company, earn money on advertising for illegal foreign gaming companies, who also, on their side, help to weaken Norwegian latitude and top sport by weakening the basis for Norsk Tipping, and thus also that profits go to culture, sport and volunteering across the country. So in several ways, this is problematic for sport. I think the Council of State answers a little defensively. Yes, the market forces are the ones that happen, we are aware of that, that is not all we politicians can prevent, but we know that we have more instruments we can use. And that's exactly what the EU broadcasting directive opens up: that we can oblige those who sell the rights to sell them to someone who has to show the events on open channels, so that everyone can see it, and not just the few. I want the Council of State now to confirm that she will expand this list, and also that she has a more forward-looking position in this debate in the future, so that we send out the right signals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-24.ana.ud509e693	We see what action space the AMT Directive now actually gives us. So we're also tightening up on game advertising. As a comment to it: I think that will lead to a decline in the price of these sporting events, because the game advertising has actually helped to drive them up because the revenue has been so large. It is also an important aspect, and I hope to get support from Stortinget so that we can tighten up the issue of game advertising, which we have now sent to the hearing. Then I would like to come back to Stortinget when we, for example. shall deal with the media message and look at how these lists can be used and the scope for action we have to ensure that more people have access. But I want to repeat that we don't yet know how this right is going to be enforced, and how much is being put behind payment walls, or whether this is also being used to lure people into the channel. We also have to be open so that this can end up in a good solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-24.ana.ud509e700	Then the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-04-24.ana.ud509e714	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? No one has done so, and the meeting has been cancelled.
