ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e45	The representative Steinar Reiten, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. The representative, Siv Mossleth, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e55	On behalf of the representatives of Willfred Nordlund, Geir Pollestad, Liv Signe Navarsete, Geir Inge Lien, Nils T. Bjørke and myself, I would like to make a proposal to strengthen the counties that have great expenditure on ferry and boat operations.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e60	The representative, Martin Kolberg, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e65	On behalf of the representatives of Anniken Huitfeldt, Marianne Marthinsen, Leif Audun Sande and myself, I would like to propose an external and independent review of the rescue work following the frigate accident on 8 November 2018.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e70	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. The President shall ask the representatives to remain in office when elections are to be made on file. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e88	A new member of the Electoral Committee shall be elected instead of Knut Arild Hareide and a new alternate member of the Electoral Committee after Oluk V. Bollestad has resigned from the Stortinget. The President is asking for proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e95	I propose Geir Jørgen Bekkevold as a new member and Geir Sigbjørn Toskedal as a new alternate.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e100	Geir Jørgen Bekkevold has been proposed as a new member and Geir Sigbjørn Toskedal as a new alternate member of the electoral committee. Other proposals are not available, and the President assumes that they can be voted in the usual way. Those who vote against are asked to stand up.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e127	I take the floor just for a brief explanation of vote. In line with the SV's principle and previous proposals on wage caps in the state and the administration, the SV's large-scale group will vote against this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e132	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e148	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, a reply be given to the comments of members of the Government and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e157	I want to start by thanking the Committee for good cooperation in a hectic time with both a lot of travel, government negotiations and changes in the Committee, but we got into port. It is an important matter we are dealing with today, although the title of it may be something inaccessible. In reality, it is about ensuring transparency about who owns Norwegian companies and ensuring that this information becomes publicly available. The appointment of the Committee follows up the decisions taken in the Stortinget in 2015, in Innst. 298 S for 2014-2015, establishing a Norwegian public ownership register and the fourth EU Money Laundering Directive. The backbone here is that financial transparency is essential in order to ensure a good economic system, with healthy and open competition, fair distribution and funding of public services. The confidentiality of financial information facilitates illegal money flows, undermines tax bases and contributes to the possibility of corruption, money laundering and terrorist financing. Transparency and transparency also create more awareness and knowledge of bad bonds, bankruptcy riders and work-life crime. As much transparency as possible about ownership helps to protect the economic system built up in Norway and to ensure a functioning democracy. The Committee therefore welcomes the fact that the proposal states that the register of beneficial owners of rights should be open to all. It is also in line with previous decisions in the Storting that the public should be able to have access to such a register at all times. The Committee also considers that the public should be able to have access to stored historical and raw data. Furthermore, the Committee considers that the law must apply irrespective of the type of company and the way in which the companies are owned and that it must also cover listed companies. It is an objective that the Register of Real Rights holders applies to as many types of companies and entities as possible. The legislative proposal requires legal persons, entities and other associations as well as administrators of foreign legal events to obtain and store information about their beneficial owners and to register them in a central register. The beneficial owner is the one who ultimately owns or controls a company. This definition covers in principle all the owners and all those who had to exercise control of the company. It is the same definition that underlies the Racism Act, but there are some criteria used when registering rightholders. In dealing with this law, there has been the most debate on criteria that involve a so-called threshold value. The legislative proposal implies that a person can be considered as a real rightholder with ownership over more than 25 pst. of the holdings, control over more than 25 pst. of the voting rights, the right to appoint or remove more than half of the members of the board or any other means of control. The legislative proposal does not provide a separate justification for this choice of threshold value, nor do there exist clear grounds or recommendations in the Money Laundering Directive. By 25 pst. Norway will meet the minimum requirements of the EU Directive. The Committee points out that there is experience from other countries indicating that the choice of such a threshold has a significant impact on which owners are registered and who are not registered and that the threshold exceeds other criteria in the law. It is important that this is not the case for Norway. The Committee asks the Ministry to monitor developments in the use of international thresholds and to ensure that the final threshold of Norway is as low as possible and in line with the intention that we should be a leading country in terms of transparency. This law is an important step towards more financial transparency. This has been wanted by Stortinget for several years. I am pleased that today we can decide that we should know who owns Norwegian companies. Norway shall be a leading country in terms of transparency. I will end by encouraging the government to continue to follow up politically, so that we too will be.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e180	As the rapporteur said, the legislation is a follow-up to the fourth EU directive on money laundering. At the same time, it is important to stress that there is also a follow-up to the Stortinget’s decision of 5 June 2015 to establish a Norwegian public ownership register. The decision was taken on the basis of a proposal from the Workers' Party's Marianne Marthinsen and the Christian People's Party's Hans Olav Syversen, and the proposal was supported by an overall increase. Transparency and transparency in who owns and exercises ownership have long been important for the Workers' Party. Financial transparency is essential to ensure a sound economic system of healthy and open competition, fair distribution and financing of public services. Privacy facilitates illegal money flows, undermines tax bases and helps to make corruption, money laundering and terrorist financing possible. We are pleased that the EU has also taken the same interests and to promote a common EU legislation, but we want Norway to remain at the forefront and have stricter transparency requirements than the EU has. In the definition of the ‘real rightholder’, there is a threshold within which ownership is required to be recorded. The definition of the ‘real rightholder’ is that it should be the ‘ ultimate owner or controller’ and we need to comply with the Racism Act to see when you are the real owner. We've added that you're going to have to add up to 25 pst. ownership before registration is required and in addition to several criteria. It is therefore up to the EU minimum to enter and register its ownership. The Directive allows Member States to choose a lower threshold in their definition of ‘real rightholder’. For the purpose of disclosing corruption, which was a clear consideration behind the decision taken by the Stortinget in June 2015, a limit of 25 pst. do not give a desired result. I want to stress that Oslo Børs is operating with a flag obligation of 5 pst, and that is also the threshold on which the US Financial Supervisory Authority operates in its corresponding register. For the Workers' Party, the Global Financial Committee's 2015 note is important: ‘The definition of ‘benefical owners’ must be at a level that allows Norway to continue to appear as a priority country in terms of transparency of ownership issues.’ We don't think that's the basis for saying that a threshold of 25 pst. Norway will appear to be a leading country. That is why we have joined a proposal asking the government to gain experience from other countries with similar ownership registers and the use of thresholds and to establish a functional, lower threshold than 25 pst. We are very pleased that the register that we are adopting today will be open to everyone without any requirement for login or legitimate interest in gaining access. It is positive and follows up both EU legislation and the decision of the Stortinget in a good way. With this I address the proposal of which the Workers' Party is part.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e204	The representative of Åsunn Lyngedal has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e209	Let me first thank the case rapporteur for a good job of bringing the Committee together as much as possible in this matter. In the fight against international crime, terrorist financing and cross-border laundering, the importance of transparency and adequate access to information about who actually owns and controls companies is important. In Norway, for most companies, there is a similarity between formal and real ownership. On the other hand, in complex corporate structures and in companies with cross-border operations and foreign ownership, it may be difficult to know who the owners actually are. A system that ensures the identification of owners and greater transparency in this respect will make it more difficult to hide criminal activities behind a seemingly legitimate façade, such as: a listed company may be. The background to this case is a 2015 request decision on transparency of Norwegian ownership and a Norwegian public ownership register, but not only this decision is the basis. In addition, the issue was also raised in national risk assessment – Whitewashing and terrorist financing in Norway, from 2016, and in the government’s strategy to combat that type of crime from the same year. In 2018, Stortinget dealt with the law on money laundering and implemented the fourth EU Directive on money laundering in Norwegian law, requiring, inter alia, that: the establishment of registers of beneficial owners of rights in Norway. Norway is actively involved in the work of the OECD and in the Financial Action Task Forces, FATF, which is the International Cooperation Group on Anti-money laundering and terrorist financing. The FATF has issued recommendations on legislation adopted by the EU, on the basis of which Norway is based. Real rightholders shall be identified in and by the company itself and/or their business operator and also notified in a register which now becomes publicly available to anyone – free of charge. It will increase transparency and prevent criminal actors from wanting to abuse businesses in Norway for money laundering and other illegal purposes. This requirement applies to Norwegian companies, foundations and foreign operators operating in Norway. Detailed rules concerning the types of companies or businesses subject to such obligations and the rules governing the collection and storage of information shall be laid down in a regulation. In this context, it is important to provide even clearer guidelines than those set out in the provisions of the Whitewashing Act. Both the recommendations of the FATF and the fourth EU directive on money laundering provide that the identification of the true rightholder can be based on certain defined criteria. In this context, the real rightholders are the natural person(s) who actually owns or controls the company. A situation that provides a basis for being considered a true rightholder is that one owns more than 25 pst. by the establishment, having control of more than 25 pst. by the votes, or by the right to appoint or remove more than half of the members of the Management Board. Statutes or company agreements, i.e. agreements between the owners, which provide equivalent governance, can also be taken into account. An overall assessment of ownership shall always be made. The threshold of 25 pst. is thus not, in itself, limiting to identifying a real ownership, which many have been concerned about. The register shall be updated as soon as the registration obligation has been identified or relevant changes have been made to it and it shall be updated once a year. It is important that it can be checked against other public registers containing ownership information, for example: annual accounts and share registry tasks that are reported annually to the tax bill in the context of tax reporting. The assessment of how information already available from those registers or sources can be obtained and used is important in order to reduce the burden on businesses and also costs, which should be as low as possible. Good guidance is also important. The Register, to be added to the Brønn Island Health Registers, will ensure easy availability of accurate information on who effectively owns companies and businesses in Norway, and strengthen efforts to combat tax crime, corruption and money laundering. It will also be important to combat labour crime and, to an even greater extent, to enable a qualitative better assessment of ownership that may be of importance to national security interests and that therefore needs to be identified and managed in accordance with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e230	The most important tool we have to ensure confidence in our economy and to make it easier for serious investors to invest in companies in Norway is a secure and predictable policy framework based on as much transparency as possible. In addition to existing open registers, such as: The shareholder register, the proposition we're now dealing with, will make us also set up a register of the real rights holders of the companies. Real rightholders are the natural persons deemed to have the ultimate ownership or control of the company. Such transparency is an important measure to prevent money laundering and the financing of criminal activities and is highlighted both in previous security assessments and in government strategies to combat money laundering and finance crime and terrorism. With the proposal, we implement parts of the fourth EU directive on money laundering, and the proposal is based on the Whitewashing Commission's investigation. For the Progress Party, it is important that we have an economic system that ensures healthy and fair competition and transparency for both companies and who effectively controls the companies as, among other things, are awarded contracts for the provision of publicly paid services. It is essential in this respect to ensure the legitimacy of competition. Financial transparency and transparency in the registers without restriction or barriers could contribute to increased transparency around unfortunate bonds, so-called bankruptcy riders and labour crime. It is important for us to be honest that the establishment of such a register can lead to some additional work for the companies, especially for those who are in a start-up phase. It is therefore clear to the Committee that it is important that the Ministry looks at the possibility of using relevant information already provided by the companies to other public registers, so that this further work is minimised.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e241	I would like to thank the Committee and the rapporteur for a good and important cooperation and work on an important matter, which also follows up other issues that the Committee and the Stortinge Group have dealt with earlier, not least the new Racism Act, which was discussed last year. Contributing to the transparency of financial developments is important for public authorities; it is important for the public, but it is also good for those operating in the market, that there are clear, clear rules to deal with, and that there is consistency between the provisions that exist in different laws. What we are facing here, ensuring a clear definition of real rightholders and clear rules related to them, is important in order to prevent both money laundering, terrorist financing, the eroding of tax bases and various activities that are not operating in a manner that is in line with good business practices or that the public should expect. To the specific provisions discussed here: There have already been talk of the 25 pst limit against real rightholders from several speakers. We're also concerned that there should be a limit. We are also concerned that Norway needs to look at experiences from other countries and assess a reduction in that limit, so that one comes at an appropriate level. It does not necessarily mean that setting the limit as low as possible — that is to say, in practice, setting it as zero — is the right thing to do, but setting it at an appropriate level, both to ensure that there are clear rules to deal with, and to ensure that Norway is a leading country in this area. Therefore, I am somewhat surprised that no more parties can agree with the proposal we have with the Workers' Party, the Green Party and the Red Party in the vote, which is that one should review the experience of other countries and establish a lower limit than 25 p.m., in order to ensure that Norway is a leading country in this area. It should be a good, concrete proposal that we could get together on. At the same time, it is important – as several speakers, among others. The representative Rodum Agdestein was in – that one should not look blind at that border either. There are many other factors that can affect who has real control over a company and how much control one has over the company, and therefore it is not least important that one has different criteria in focus than just the ownership limit. I would also like to say that last year we discussed in this Chamber the new Racism Act based on two comprehensive public investigations, based on international recommendations made by Norway, and based on a comprehensive EU legislation. The central party believes that it is incredibly important that one has clear rules that are understandable to those who are required to comply with the rules, that there is no doubt as to what kind of definition one has of real rightholders, and that one does not operate with different definitions in different laws. It may make it untransparent and difficult to comply with, but it may also make it possible for an attempt to escape by pointing out that there are other provisions of other legislation. Therefore, it is incredibly important that one has a clear and uniform legal framework and that one strengthens the requirements of financial transparency in order to help prevent both terrorist financing and money laundering and ensure a serious business life in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e254	The President of the case started his statement by thanking the Committee. Despite some replacements in the committee and travel business, this is my first post as a financial officer for the Christian People's Party, and I had to follow the post over the phone because the plane was delayed from Bergen. I can stand behind a lot of the posts that have now been held. It shows – and so does the committee setting – that there is a broad majority in the committee behind the work that has been done here and that is behind the intentions underlying it. It is easy to understand all the time when financial openness is entirely decisive to ensure a good economic system where there is healthy and open competition to ensure fair distribution, and that there is a good funding of the public services that we are to provide. Then it's a problem when it's possible to hide ownership and hide their financial interests. One of these tools is needed to make it possible to move the actors behind them. In order to detect abuse of power and immoral dispositions, it must be possible to follow the flows of money. That control function follows the press, it follows other civil society actors, and then one needs the tools to facilitate the good of contributing to society and ensuring a healthy democracy and a healthy and open market economy. When financial openness is involved, significant steps have been taken in recent years to deal with it both in Norway and internationally. Today's shareholder registry has not provided sufficient information to capture all real legal entities, and then it is important that the new registry captures as many company types and entities as possible. So I'm very happy that we're now getting this in place. The need for more transparency in who are real rightholders has been increasing, and this is also the reason why the Christian People's Party participated in proposing this in 2015. The government's bill captures a lot of what was the Christian People's Party's intention, and we're very pleased with that. The fact that there is now a wide multiple behind the setting in this room is a pleasure. Looking at this in the context of country-by-country reporting and other measures that have been taken to ensure financial openness, we are moving in a direction that is good, not just for Norway, but also important for the world around us. I noticed that the Committee has a comment on threshold values, one of which is to be asked by the Ministry to follow developments internationally in the use of thresholds and to ensure that Norway's threshold value is in line with Norway as a progressive country of openness and as low as possible. It's an intention that I want to underline is important to follow up in a good way. This is a good case and a good and wide setting that is easy to put behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e265	I would like to begin by congratulating you on the day. This is the first time we've adopted a register like this, which will give you complete transparency about who are the real owners of the companies in the Norwegian registers. If the government follows up what I think is Stortinget's intention in this position, it is a huge step for Norwegian democracy and for the transparency of Norwegian politics and Norwegian public opinion. But it depends on how the government follows up the suspension and decisions, because it is a fact that it is only the Environmental Party of the Greens and the Reds who have wanted to clarify in the decision that the threshold of 25 pst. – which means you have to own 25 pst. of the shares of a company in order to enter this register – not in line with the Storting's ambition of 2015 and the 2015 decision that we should be in the forefront of transparency. I think that's nice – that it's just us and Red who support it, and that not SV, the Center Party, the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left are also behind that decision. Because it is the same government that we now trust, which has made a proposal – initially – that you should only own 25 pst. of the shares to be held in such a register, despite the decision in 2015. It is the same government that casts doubt – initially – in the bill on whether or not listed companies should be defined. And it is the same government that has thus waited until the very last minute to come to Stortinget on the matter – because the fourth EU directive on money laundering requires us to do so – despite the fact that the Storting itself ordered this in 2015. I think it's nice that we give it confidence. But I am therefore pleased with the clear orders in the comments. I would like to stress that, because the committee has made some clear choices in the vote. We state in common that the purpose of the law is not only to prevent money laundering, but it is also to ensure transparency about double roles that can prevent corruption, which can weaken both the political system and our democracy. We are together clear that the public should have access to the register at all times. We are clear together in the remarks that the Ministry must ensure that adequate guidance is given, including to data subjects, so that it is not the registration companies, the companies, who get the heavy burden, and that it becomes part of the debate in the future, but that companies are helped to obtain the transparency required by the Norwegian public, by assisting in the follow-up of their obligations. Finally, the core of the battle, the 25 pst. limit: there is a clear committee. We say to have as a threshold that you have to own 25 pst. the shares of a company to be held in this register are not in line with our decision in 2015. If Size accepts a threshold of 25 pst. – as the government can still do, because in the law to be adopted today, we refer to the Whitewashing Act, and there is the minimum threshold of 25 pst. – we have made a U-turn in terms of our own proposal from 2015. A threshold of 25 pst. to be registered is far from ambitious. Actors with a much smaller holding than 25 pst. in a company, there may be a decisive influence, and in particular the cross-cutting interests and dual roles around Norway, between politics and the economy, are far lower than the threshold values of 25 pst. To put it that way: about a rapporteur in a municipality only owns 1 pst. by a company which, with its political power, gives an advantage, it is in the interests of society to know about it, regardless of the amount of income. There are two different places in the setting where we say 25 pst. Not good enough. We ask the government to monitor developments in Europe otherwise and to assess whether Norway is still at the forefront of the threshold, and also the definition of real rightholders that we have in law. There we are asking the government to follow on. Second, we clearly refer to 5 pst. ‘The Committee points out that for most Norwegian enterprises, the formal owners are also the real rightholders, and for out-of-exchange establishments ownership shifts will be rare and the reporting burden will be low. Oslo Børs operates today with a flag obligation of 5 pst.» So the companies are already reporting on this, and that's also the threshold the US Financial Supervisory Authority is operating on in its EDGAR registry. I believe that it is quite obvious here that the government has received an order to try to add 5 pst. Although I see that the Storting does not want to bind the government to it in decision. With that, I would like to raise the Greens' proposals, which we are promoting with the Reds.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e291	The representative of Une Bastholm has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e297	In the proposal, the Government proposes a law on the register of beneficial owners of rights. The bill facilitates the establishment of a register of real rightholders, as the Stortinget has previously asked the government to do. The legislative proposal follows up the EU's fourth money laundering directive, the Financial Action Task Force, FATF, its recommendations on anti-money laundering and terrorist financing measures. The government believes that transparency of ownership and control of legal persons is important in the fight against illegitimate activities. This may include criminals who launder money resulting from drug law offences, corruption or crime at work. It may also relate to the financing of terrorism. In any case, it is that illegitimate cash flows are channelled through apparently legitimate activities. Then it's important for the authorities, society and other actors to know who it is that is actually behind the legal person. It is this government's bill that should facilitate. The individual proposals in the proposal are already well summarised by the rapporteur in her introduction. I now want to focus on the points in the proposition that the Committee has been particularly concerned about. The legislative proposal applies initially to all legal persons, legal events, entities and other associations. However, it may be that the legislation does not apply equally to all types of legal persons in Norway. Examples of this are voluntary associations and housing laws. In Sweden they have, among other things: derogation for the deceased. Furthermore, we also need to see this register in conjunction with the information already available in public registers in Norway. I record that the committee believes that specifically listed companies should be included in the register. I take note of this when it comes to drawing up regulations for the law. Another point that is subject to a lot of attention is the so-called threshold values. As referred to in the proposal on new law on money laundering and in this proposition, the Norwegian criteria for the identification of real rightholders are based on international standards. In the case of ownership or voting rights of 25 pst. or more, there is a well-implemented size that creates predictability and non-discrimination. It's positive. Of course, we will follow closely the international developments at this point. I will end by stressing that transparency about companies in general, including real rightholders, is high on the international agenda. It is important that Norway also participates in this development.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e314	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e319	I listened with interest to the statements of the Council of State. Finally, what the Council of State was about, among other things, was applicable to the threshold. I understood that the Council of State argued that it was reasonable that the threshold should be 25 p.m., and that one was well satisfied with it, while speakers from very many parties in this Chamber have argued that Norway should not only look at what is in other countries, but that we should also be a country of the past, so look at the possibility of going below 25 p.m. Therefore, I would like to ask the Council of State to clarify: Is the government assuming that only one should have 25 pst. of certain shares, and if other countries operate with it, is that OK? Or does the government have an ambition to go lower than that, and that Norway should be a leading country in this context, so that we actually get a real openness in those questions?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e326	Let me first clarify what is made clear in the setting, namely that the threshold for ownership is not the only thing to be assessed. That said, for many companies it could also be unusual to make assessments that have been expected today by more professional actors under the legislation on money laundering. However, I record the Committee's proposal for a decision on requests to clarify the collection and registration obligation. The ministry will take it with it in the further work, also with the regulation. I can also assure you that we are going to follow developments closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e331	On the part of the Centre Party, we fully agree that there are many other criteria that are important to define who are real rightholders, who are actually in control of the companies, and so the debate on the thresholds must not be overshadowed by other important elements that may be even more important in determining exactly that. Nevertheless, the debate on threshold values is very important. Here it is expressed from different parties in the hall that Norway should have an ambition to be a leading country and not just look at what is an international average for threshold values, but actually lie in front and help to gain experience from other countries and to investigate going below 25 pst. Is the government willing to go in that direction?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e338	As I said, the government is of course willing to follow developments in other countries related to this issue. Now we're getting a good code in place, and I'm glad that there's a broad consensus on that in the Stortinget. We will follow developments in other countries, also to see if there is a need for regulatory adjustments in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e343	I would like to thank the Council of State for her contribution. And I want to ask you a little bit more about this threshold, because there's something we've discussed a lot in the committee. I think there's consensus and an opinion that there are several different criteria underlying it than just the threshold. But these are experiences from, among other things, The United Kingdom, which also has a threshold of 25 p.p., and those experiences may at least suggest that in practice it will be the only criterion followed by the data subjects. Therefore, the Committee also stresses the importance of not becoming the case for the Norwegian register, that it acts as the only silage mechanism in practice. I wonder how the Council of State and the Government will assure us that this will not be the case in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e350	As I said instead, there are several aspects that need to be assessed in this context. That being said, it is natural – as I also said in and for myself, the representative Gülsvik – that, when we get this legislation in place, we both reap our own experiences and follow developments in other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e355	I thank you for your answer. What has also been part of the discussion in the Committee around the threshold is that we perceive that the reference to the law on money laundering is to justify that the only reason for the choice of threshold is to prevent money laundering, and that only those who actually control a company are looked at. However, the Committee stresses that there are other considerations that must also be taken in order to follow up the previous decision of the Stortingen and clear comments that an attempt will be made to improve transparency and prevent double roles and corruption, which the representative Bastholm was also involved in. I wonder if the Council of State sees and agrees that there is also part of the intention behind this law, and that it is important to take care of that perspective as well. I also wonder how the Council of State will come back to Stortinget with the experience, including those from other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e362	I can assure the representative that the government reads the comments from the committee. I think we should first be glad that we're getting this code in place. We all agree on the importance of transparency around this, not least that this legislation should help prevent and prevent illegitimate actions, which we do not want at all. Again: I can assure you that we will follow through on this, reap your own experiences and get back to Stortinget in an appropriate way if necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e369	The Committee has also demonstrated in its opinion that a decision was taken in relation to the revised national budget in 2014, which called on the government to ‘establish a public solution with information on shareholders’, i.e. a shareholder register. That would show everyone who owns shares, and then this threshold wouldn't be a real problem. I wonder if the Council of State has any considerations regarding the establishment of a searchable public shareholder register in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e375	The request decision to which I assume the representative refers is a matter that falls within the responsibility of the Minister of Industry. It just wouldn't be right to tell me about it right now. The Minister of Industry will come back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e380	This is a complicated matter, so it's hard to separate a string and a bar. Just to have said it first, it's not like an open shareholder register can replace such a register and the need for a lower threshold, because this register will provide us with much more information than just who owns shares in these companies, for example. who is the Chairperson, the Executive Director, etc. My question to the Council of State is actually a follow-up to the question from the representative Kaski. I'm a little concerned that the Council of State cannot confirm that one of the purposes of a new register of real rights holders is, of course, to ensure transparency, which prevents the role conflicts between politics and corporate interests and corruption, and not just what is the intention of the law on money laundering, because that is really at the heart of this. That's why the 25 pst limit becomes important. It can be good enough to prevent money laundering, but not for the others... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e387	I believe that in my main post I was clear about the importance of transparency. Through transparency, we gain better insight into ownership and control of different companies. It is also a prerequisite for preventing and preventing crime and unwanted activity that we do not want. So I fully agree with the meaning of openness, and that's one of the reasons why we're getting this in place. Then we're going to follow this up and gain experience once we've got the code in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e392	We agree on the importance of transparency. But what we're really talking about here, and as it's very important to be clear to the Storting because it's about how the government is going to follow up this in regulation, is whether this law also has as its specific purpose, for example. to give a journalist access to information about a given rapporteur who has financial interests or in other ways a governing, controlling ownership of a company which he has on his table as part of a political case in the municipality. Can the Council of State clarify that this too is a purpose of this law, which was also the order from Stortinget in 2015? There is something more than a follow-up to the fourth EU directive on money laundering.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e397	I perceive that the question is really about further follow-up of this in the regulatory work. I can assure you that we are going to work hard on this, and of course also make assessments of the various comments that have come from the committee, in connection with the legal work.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e402	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e420	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, a reply be given to the comments of members of the Government and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e429	The issue we are about to deal with now is a proposal from several representatives from the Workers' Party and the SV who deal with the introduction of an individual employee pension account, and that pension provision starts from the first crown you get in salary. To the first, i.e. individual pension account, the government made a bill on this in 2018. This will result in a smarter and more appropriate pooling of service provision, a simplification measure that can also lead to more pensions for individuals without increased costs for Norwegian business. But this is going to be dealt with by Stortinget later this winter, and I will therefore not go into any further detail on that proposal. The second, pension from the first heads, is a more complicated question that requires more mention. The proposal for a representative calls for changes in the criteria for pension provision for the private sector pension scheme to provide service from the first crown to pay – not only for wages and salaries above 1 G – as well as membership of a pension scheme for lower than 20 pst., membership of a pension scheme for employees under 20 years of age and the right to retain a pension earned from employment that lasts less than 12 months. The last point is included in the previously mentioned proposition promoted by the government to be dealt with by the Storting later this year. It is optional under the applicable law for employers to provide service to employees who do not meet the above criteria. When the law is as it is today, it is not the result of any employer’s decision alone, but some of the employers’ and employees’ side has been agreed on. The tradition in Norway has been that this is discussed and resolved by the social partners, and that the law then changes by us legislators. Now the Workers' Party and SV want to turn this principle upside down. One picks a claim from the one side, for which they have not been passed through in negotiations with one's counterpart, and raises it in the Stortinget with the blessing of only one party in the world of work. We've been doing little with this kind of policy in the past, and I don't think that's something we should start with right now either. A pension scheme that is intended to last over time cannot be treated piece by piece through private proposal, but must be treated comprehensively and through wide-ranging reconciliations between the social partners and a broad majority of the Stortinget. What the proposers do not mention in their proposal for a representative is that this has a cost for the companies, for the Norwegian business community. A working group has estimated that the gross cost of earning the first crown is between 3.3 billion. kr and 3.5 br. kr per year. Removing lower age costs between 200 and 700 million. kr, while the job-share part costs between 70 million. NOK 265 million. kr. There are significant costs for Norwegian business, costs they believe have been compensated for by the agreements reached by the social partners, not later than last year when a low wage supplement of SEK 2.50 was provided at the top of the general salary supplement of NOK 1 per hour. The employer’s side believes that introducing a pension from the first crown and the first day can make it more difficult for many people to get into the labour market. Among the sectors that NHO believes will be particularly hard hit are labour-intensive industries that are currently good at including people in the labour market, for example. tourism, trade in goods, clean-up, security and agricultural services. I believe these are concerns that are worth listening to. But it's not that we, on the part of the government parties, are categorically rejecting changes in the future. That is why we are promoting a proposal here today that I am now addressing, which says that we are asking the government to set up a party-based sample to look at and assess this issue. We look forward to the results of the work of this sample. The reason why we do not support the Central Party's proposal in the setting, which says almost the same, is that they advance what the party-group sample is going to come up with. This is not the way we pursue policies – if we first have a multi-party sample, the conclusion should not be given in advance. There shall be real discussions in the sample, which may form the basis for what we adopt here. That's how the process gets the best.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e452	The representative Sivert Bjørnstad has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e457	The pension system is to ensure that people receive decent income insurance in old age. Major changes were made to the pension scheme 10 years ago. After the life expectancy had increased a lot and there were many more people with the right to a pension, it was necessary to make changes. One important step was that all income should be included in the pension benefit base. Social security changed, so that all income was taken into account for the calculation of pensions. This is also the case with public occupational pension systems today. Statistics from Finance Norway show that 1.4 million people have pensions in the private sector. The arrangements are complex. Those who have performance plans or hybrid schemes have earnings from the first crown. But it's just a little over 100,000 who have these arrangements. 90 pst. by all employees in the private sector do not have plans to earn from the first crown. This is unfair. Today's legislation requires employers in the private sector to pay for an additional pension for their employees. It is optional what the enterprise pays within the range 2 pst. to 7 pst. and it is optional whether a pension contribution is paid for the first 97 000 kroner. That's 75 pst. – or more than 1 million people – who have been removed. There is a clear correlation between the rate chosen by the company and whether the first 97 000 kroner are included in the base. Of those who only have 2 pst., there's almost no one who has earnings from the first heads, but of those who have 7 pst, almost all earnings from the first heads. In the last group, we find people who are employed in finance and insurance, while those who work in accommodation and food activities get the worst out. This helps to reinforce the evolution we see: the difference between people is increasing. Those who work in insurance and finance have an average wage that is more than twice as high as those who work in the accommodation and restaurant industry. Differences are increased into retirement when, with the highest wages and salaries, they have a three-fold higher percentage than those who have half the income when the pension contribution is set aside. One doesn't have to be a rocket scientist to see that this case also has an equality dimension. It is the women who work in the professions with the worst conditions. A common objection to this matter was that we heard the case rapporteur coming forward, that we were rotating to the tripartite cooperation, and the matter had to be investigated. Both parts are wrong. The case started in the wage settlement in 2016, when the national broker sent a letter to the Prime Minister in connection with the settlement in the front. The Prime Minister replied that the government was prepared to investigate the need to make adjustments to the law and legislation on occupational retirement provision in the private sector. The result was a report issued by the civil service in December 2016 with the parties, the financial industry and the Consumer Council in the reference group. The matter concerns several issues. All four requirements are met: pensions from the first krona, the part-time rule, the age limit rule and the 12-month rule. But the government chooses to take one of the cases out to consult, change in the 12-month rule, and has submitted a matter that we will deal with later in ours. Why exactly the 12-month rule – why haven't they heard the whole issue? Did the parties agree that only one part of this should be heard? If someone's rotating, it's the government. And today it's the big crowd that rotates, trying to ride two horses. A new investigation is a clean rail maneuver. The matter has been settled. The director of the NHO said the matter was a matter for the legislator. That's exactly what it is. It is not that the changes proposed in the pension system now have been the subject of large, wide-ranging conciliation here in the Stortinget. We have not heard anything about the 12 month rule until it came as a matter for Stortinget now – there has been no broad work associated with it in advance. I can promise that the big changes that have been made to give tax favors to those who can afford to pay for high pensions have not been part of a broad settlement here in Stortinget – but these matters are linked.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e474	Should the representative make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e479	I'll do that, I'll deal with that proposal where we're co-sponsors.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e484	The representative, Rigmor Aasrud, then addressed the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e489	A good pension scheme is absolutely necessary to feel secure for the future. I am pleased that in Norway we have a tradition of good cooperation both across parties in the United Kingdom and also with the social partners on major changes that are particularly important for both the employee and the employer. Retirement is such a matter. In December, the government promoted a bill to introduce its own pension account and to grant employees with fewer employment than 12 months the right to maintain their pension performance. For many, it is difficult to keep track of their plan assets, especially if you have had many different small jobs for shorter or longer periods. Therefore, the proposal for a separate pension account is good news for a very large number. It will help people get a better overview and more influence over their own pensions. These changes may lead to an increase in pensions for up to 1.4 million workers in the private sector. There is a proposal in the case here today for a pension from the first crown, and the government parties have, as mentioned earlier, promoted a loose proposal in the case, where the Stortinget asks the government to set down a party-based selection to assess the pension from the first penny. It is precisely in cooperation with the social partners that this discussion needs to be taken. Tripartite cooperation is something we should protect and continue to build under. The proposal for a pension from the first crown was part of the negotiations in last year's pay bill. When that proposal fell into those negotiations, it was because other measures were prioritised, and the parties landed on other solutions. Pension from the first crown is a cost that employers have to cover themselves. It's a cost that's calculated for something over 3 billion. kr, which is why the parties should agree. So the opposition might be dissatisfied with the payroll, but trying to change the law afterwards would help undermine the tripartite cooperation. It's actually taking a rematch on another course half with completely different rules. It allows for any of the parties to be changed to an agreement already concluded, depending on the location of the majority in this Chamber at any time. If we open up such a process, it could help to weaken the trust of the parties at the next crossroads, and no one will profit from it. As I said, we have good traditions to include the social partners and to seek broad reconciliation in the Storting on matters relating to retirement. This is what we do, even though it is finally the majority of the Stortinge who legislate the possible changes. It ensures legitimacy, predictability and, in particular, mutual trust, which benefits both workers and employers.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e504	The pension system is incredibly important for people's security, it's important for the security they should feel for their age, that they have security for the pension, what rights they've earned, and what pension they're getting. Therefore, it is important to ensure the stability of the pension system, but it is also important that we develop and build the pension system further on stone, so that we ensure a good and worthy old age for all in Norway, among others. through the pension you receive, both through the basic pension and through the rules for, inter alia, occupational retirement provision, which is what we are discussing today. In Norway, we have the tradition that, when we are going to make major changes in the pension system, we are looking for broad-based reconciliations that can last for time, through changing governments, through a shifting majority in the Storting – and also through a process with the social partners. I heard the case rapporteur refer to a proposal from the centre party in this case, and that it could not be supported by the government parties because the centre party pre-concluded with what a party-based selection of pensions from the first crown should determine. And that's right. I understood from the rapporteur that the Central Party is clear that the principle of pension from the first crown should be followed up, and that it should be implemented by the government submitting a proposal. However, how it is to be implemented, what changes to make and how — yes, it is up to the selection of the parties to prepare for that change in order to comply with the principle of pensions from the first crown. There are significant weaknesses in the pension system as it is today. There are gaps that need to be corrected, gaps that need to be closed, and it is important to ensure a social profile and a social distribution between different income groups, but also between people working in different industries and with different employers. That is why we are also concerned that the work to be carried out by the Joint Committee of the Parties and the order made by the Government to implement the principle of pensions from the first crown are not just to deal with the law on compulsory occupational pensions, which is what is contained in the proposal of the Workers' Party, SV, the Environmental Party of the Greens and Reds. For, as also referred to in their own comments, there are other provisions in other laws that also affect whether a person is earned a pension from the first crown, among others. in the Post-Investment Pension Act. So that's why it's also not clear what a person really means when he says "pension from the first heads" from these parties' side. Yes, it shall apply to all – regardless of the type of enterprise in which a job is employed, regardless of the number of employees that the enterprise has, regardless of the job fraction of the various employees of the enterprise, which is provided for, for example. in the Post-Insurance Pension Act? And what about income that one gets, for example, through remuneration from hard work and voluntary activity? The government has received criticism – I would say well-deserved criticism – from the representative of the Workers' Party, Rigmor Aasrud, who was up here, because there were certain questions related to retirement that one went further with, while one has not gone further with the question of pension from the first penny. It is therefore important that the Storting should now make a clear order for this principle to be implemented, it should be implemented by submitting proposals from the government. However, this must be done through a process involving the social partners and not through a representative proposal in the Stortinget, which proposes a change to one specific law. With that, I will address the proposals from the Central Party in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e521	The representative, Sigbjørn Gülsvik, then addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e527	One million people in the private sector do not receive service from the first crown. It means that a lot of people are on and working hard, but then they are told that they don't deserve a pension for the effort they make. This is particularly true of those who already often have the lowest salary and the worst occupational pension. Often there are women in service occupations that go beyond this. The background to the proposal is that today only income earns more than 1 G, i.e. the basic amount of the population's money. That's right now at NOK 96 883. One that's going to be $200,000, so you're going to earn half of what they earn. One that's going to make $600,000 is going to earn $5. The injustice of this system is quite obvious. Those with high pay are going to get relatively better than those with low pay. But the rules are also so that two people who do the same job can be left with quite different pensions. Whether they work in a private hospital or a public hospital, decide. In the public sector, you are entitled to a pension from the first crown, but not in the private sector – another injustice! LO leader Hans Christian Gabrielsen has stressed how systematically unfair this is. He says, ‘This has given us an occupational pension scheme in the private sector where at one end we have cleaners, shopkeepers, maids, waiters and others – mostly women, many of them part-time workers – who have low wages and poor occupational pensions. At the opposite end, you will find the high-wage — most often men — who receive up to seven percent of the provision of an already high income, and without subtracting anything from the profit base.’ The fact that people don't earn a pension from the first penny is kind of a top estimate. Those who serve at least shall be subject to a rule which takes part of the pension. That doesn't make any sense. Now it's time to put in place these most necessary changes. Today's legislation on occupational pensions in the private sector needs to be adapted to the principles of new social security. Pension from the first crown, removal of the 20-year limit and requirement for at least 20 pst. job breaks and the removal of the 12-month membership rule is a logical follow-up to the pension reform principle that all income should provide pensions. Everything from the government said it would pay to work, gets empty when the government parties are not there to support this proposal. The proposal we are discussing here is an effective, simple and comprehensible approach to give a better pension to those who serve the very least. It is therefore incomprehensible that the majority will not support this proposal, but will once again postpone the matter and investigate further. The proposal and the situation of those affected by the legislation are well known, and now it is time to move on. I have to say that when I hear the government parties today, I am not very reassured on behalf of the party-group that the government parties are proposing. It is argued that pensions from the first krona will make it more difficult to get into work and that there is a high cost for businesses, but little is said about the unfairness of employees today. I am therefore afraid that such a party-based selection is another postponement that draws this out in time. For every day that goes, there are cleaners and canteen workers who lose money, who eventually become large sums. The parties agree that this is a matter for the legislator. We could have taken it seriously today. We could have corrected this injustice.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e549	The Nordic model with strong tripartite cooperation is a success factor, and it is important when finding solutions that all three parties should be able to rely on them. The discussion between the social partners about the pension from the first crown was first drawn up in the main resolution in 2014, and the solution was to postpone the case to the data subject in 2016. It was not at that time either that there was agreement, but a firm situation, which led the Riksbroker to write a letter to Erna Solberg asking whether the government would contribute to a distribution work aimed at modernising the pension schemes in the private sector. The question of a pension from the first crown was raised again from the employee's side of the salary settlement for 2017 without any agreement. An agreement was reached between the parties without any change in the legislation relating to pensions. It is the Storting that legislates changes in the pension system, but the tradition is that this is done through wide-ranging conciliation on the Storting after the social partners in the context of a pay settlement have become some of the things that the government has to do or make changes. I also think that tradition stands in this case. Although it is easy to understand that a pension scheme from the first dollar would strengthen the rights to postponing groups in the world of work, this is not the best way to do it. In the same way as it would be unthinkable if the Storting were to remove the courts of which there was agreement, it is unthinkable that the Storting should impose such significant additional costs on a party without having any agreement in a pay settlement or otherwise agreement between the social partners. We now have an own pension account in place and the right to keep ignition at work for less than 12 months, and voting against this proposal is not the same as being against all changes in the pension system. However, there are grounds for asking questions about whether the best way to do so is through representative proposals, when there is no consensus between the social partners. This is a document 8 which has been a doctor for a long time in the Committee and which was produced early in the fall. Since then it has been progressing in progress. We've got a new government platform, a government platform that contains a point that one should have a party-set selection to evaluate the pension from the first penny. That proposal is now being made, and the Christian People's Party is proposing it. That's what we're going to support.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e562	The requirement we are discussing today is a fair requirement. A bill came recently from the government that takes care of parts of the representative proposal, and it is good, but it is a pity that the other proposals here, which would have continued to introduce the principle of retirement from the first crown, do not get a majority in the Chamber today. It affects young people, it affects part-time workers, it affects low wages in the private sector, and it is likely to hit women first and foremost hardest. So it's a kind of double penalty for those who have the worst working conditions in today's world, and who may not have security for work and income. In addition, they may risk becoming pension losers. It is unfair, because it contributes to increased inequality and unfair discrimination between different peoples of the labour market. It is therefore overtime that this bias in the system is corrected by the Storting. We could say a lot about the pension reform today. One important principle behind it was that you should have a service for your whole life. Now only private sector occupational pensions do not follow this principle. In view of the grossly unfair lifestyle adjustment of the population, which punishes those who have heavy jobs and rewards those who have physically easier jobs, it is all the more important to ensure that occupational retirement provision is not diluted to the point where it boils down to the management fees of pension companies. Today, the differences in occupational retirement provision are enormous. It is not only because according to LO figures, one million workers do not earn a pension for income below 1 G, but also because many workers in low-paid jobs only get a minimum level of 2 pst. Many highly paid people are more likely to receive both a pension from the first dollar and a higher proportion of the salary saved for retirement than those who have a low salary. LO's calculations show that a person who has twice the salary of another person may have as much as ten times higher pension earnings. Obviously, then, the Storting must take action to ensure that employment inequality does not reproduce into even greater inequality in pension life. The government writes in the platform that they will ‘set down a selection of parties to assess the pension from the first penny’. But this is already well established. The parties have not reached an agreement before and have in practice sent this ball back to Stortinget. A new investigation is just postponing a problem that Stortinget has to solve. It was a hearing on the proposal. It was with respect to report a rather sad performance on the part of employers. Their main argument was that the proposal would make the way into working life more difficult for very many. We should not accept this argument – that they push people in front of them not to pay what it costs for the labour they actually buy. Of course, it has a cost that even low-paid people get a better pension, but if you can't afford to pay their employees a salary they can live on, and a good pension, maybe that company doesn't have the right to life. Stating a common minimum standard will also help to ensure that unprofessional operators do not benefit from a competitive advantage over liable undertakings with collective bargaining agreements. That's why we support what is proposed by the opposition in this case, and we ask people to note which parties support the demands of the labour movement, and who are now postponing and training and pushing on the proposal rather than making sure that we get a fair solution here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e581	The private occupational pension market accounts for a significant proportion of Norwegian workers' future pensions. It is important that we have legislation that provides a good pension for each individual, while taking into account that different companies have different cost capacities. When considering changes in the rules, we need to take the time to properly assess the consequences and allow stakeholders sufficient opportunity to express themselves. A goal of the legislative work done by the government in recent years is to facilitate the sound and efficient management of pension capital. It is also an objective that workers who wish to do so should be able to have a better overview and influence of their pension saving. One such measure is the bill on our own pension account that we presented in December. As I said in my letter to the Financial Committee on 22 June last year, this work was already under way when the representatives promoted the proposal that we are debating today. The aim of the bill is to increase the pension rate for each saved krone: A greater degree of the pooling of pension capital can reduce the costs of managing and managing pension capital. Together with the proposal for a separate pension account, we also proposed to abolish the rule that the employee must have been employed for at least 12 months in order to bring his pension performance into pension schemes. These changes could lead to an increase in pensions for up to 1.4 million workers in the private sector. The rule was introduced in its time, among others. because it was considered technically demanding and administratively costly to issue pension capital certificates based on relatively low pension benefits. In a system where past service provision can be more automatically collected in one pension account, this justification falls largely away. Although this proposal increases the costs for the enterprise, we believe that the whole pension system speaks to abolish this rule. These proposals have been examined and consulted in the usual way before drawing up the legislative proposal. The other criteria for service provision proposed by the representatives are service provision from the first crown, service provision for persons less than 20 years of age, and service provision for persons less than 20 pst. position. The change of these criteria would entail further increased costs for enterprises, but would, on the other hand, increase the performance of some persons who do not currently have the right to earn in occupational pension schemes. The working group that investigated its own pension account also had an overall assessment of the costs of changing these criteria. The cost of a service requirement from the first crown appears to be clearly higher than for the other criteria. I believe, as I said, that there is a need to look at the consequences before we possibly proceed with proposals for legislative changes. We need to look at which businesses and industries can be particularly affected, and not least give interested parties the opportunity to comment. That is why, in the new government platform, we have said that we want to address the question of pension from the first crown in greater detail, together with the social partners. As I am familiar with, a similar proposal is also being made by representatives of the government parties in the Chamber today. The question of the pension from the first crown is, among other things, a question of allocating pension benefits between employees. Enterprises with higher deposit rates than the law imposes as minimum requirements have the possibility to reduce the performance rates in order to offset the increase in costs of a pension claim from the first crown. This will result in a redistribution of pension savings in the enterprise from the high-paid to the lower-paid. However, such legislation is limited to the extent to which enterprises can adapt their pension schemes. A further investigation may show whether it is possible to assess other changes in pension legislation that facilitate the adjustment of pension schemes to their cost capacity for enterprises, while ensuring that pensions are earned from the first crown. The Ministry of Finance is now assessing how best to organise such an investigation in order to ensure quality, efficiency and progress in work.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e613	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e618	The current rules are that an employee who earns NOK 300000 loses one third of his salary at the provision of a pension. While the rules are that way, the government has increased the limit for those who can save for their own pension, and you can now get tax deductions for amounts up to NOK 40000. Does the Council of State think that these rules contribute to more or less inequality between people?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e623	I think it is important that we manage to do several things to further develop different parts of our pension plans. Making provision for more individual pension savings is not negative for workers in Norway. On the contrary, I think that is a good thing. As I also tried to say in my post related to the proposal for a representative that is being discussed, there is every reason to have sympathy for the intention in it. That's also what the government answers when we say that we will now set up a party-based sample to go through this – see if you can make reasonable changes that will enable companies to adapt to this in a good way. It is important to recognise some healthy principles about earning a pension through the job you do.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e628	It sounds like the government continues the exercise of riding two horses, because you haven't been positive to this. Now you have sympathy for the proposal, but you have to walk the road to a bureaucratic investigation. Government officials spent half a year and a half conducting a fairly comprehensive survey up to a hundred pages, which swept across all the issues we now have. What new is the Council of State expecting to get through an investigation now and which is not already investigated?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e633	Now I'm not quite sure if I caught up with what the representative Aasrud criticized the Ministry of Finance for. The fact that we spend a lot of time conducting thorough investigations, I guess the Storting value. I also disagree that we are trying to ride two horses. I answered quite clearly what the government's intention is in this regard. We're going to follow up on what's on the government's platform, and the decision the Stortinget is going to make today – go through this, along with the social partners, to see how to find a good way to deal with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e638	The proposal is not necessarily good even if it is in the government platform. It doesn't help the one million employees who today don't have a pension from the first penny. My question to the Council of State I would like to repeat, because there has been an investigation, the cost is known, you know what legal paragraphs need to be amended: what is it new that you need to investigate before you can decide? That's the big question. If you don't decide, it'll be year and day before those who don't get earned from the first heads can get into a position where they actually get it. That's the big question. How long do you expect to spend on figuring out, and what's new about what you need to know before you can decide?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e643	The government doesn't want it to go year and day, as the representative calls it, to get answers to these questions. The government platform is just ready, and we are already working in the Ministry of Finance to look at how we can properly follow it up. I can assure you that I will have progress on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e649	I also noticed that the council replied that one had sympathy with the intention of the proposal. But the question is, what does a person do when entering such a sample work? What is contained in the proposal of the Centre Party is that one supports the principle of pensions from the first crown, and that the government should make a proposal on that. Then you're going to have a party sample that's going to review and prepare that change. It can be done, among other things: looking at the administrative costs associated with this, the impact on some industries and putting it into a framework for how to solve it, so that stakeholders come out in a good way – both that things do not disappear at the administrative costs of individual workers, but that there is no undue burden on businesses, and that the State is willing to intervene properly. It's a very different starting point to go into this principle as a starting point. The question is, is there a clear attitude that the government adopts, when one says that one should consider the questions?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e654	Let me first say that I think it's quite natural that we put down a party-based sample to go through this. After all, it is all the parties that have the most interest in this – the employees, of course, because it is about their future pension, and the employers because it is about costs. There are many different types of businesses in our country, so it's important that we manage to see these things in context. The government's statement of will is on the platform. We want to look at this, and the work gets started quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e659	The question is, what is the government's starting point? Is it that there is political will on the part of the government to implement a principle of pension from the first crown, or is it such that it becomes entirely up to the process to assess, that it has not really been given that the government will support a principle of pension from the first crown, and that the distortions that are there today will not be resolved? Or is it that the government goes into this with the goal of cleaning up, here you have to find solutions, and one should also contribute by the state, so that the costs, among other things. business will get, find a plan for how to solve well?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e664	I answered it in my main post. It is important that we have good and safe pension schemes in Norway, but it is also important that they are funded. That is exactly why I think it is good that we involve the parties in the work on this, and we are going to work as quickly as possible to get this work done.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e669	It's nice that you have the ambition to work quickly, but what my question is about is what is the government's ambition. What is very clear in the proposal of the Centre Party, which I had hoped several parties could join, is that one supports the principle of pension from the first crown, and that it should be implemented by legislative change. With regard to the proposal submitted by the other opposition party, one only proposes to amend a specific law. Then there will be other laws that will still limit retirement from the first heads. But it makes sense to do it through a process with the parties and look at the consequences it has for different industries, different businesses, and where one can implement it in that case. Is it so that the government has a plan to implement the pension principle from the first crown, or is it completely unclear what the selection work will end with?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e674	As I have said several times now, it is important on the one hand to have good and safe pension schemes. On the other hand, it's important that it is funded. Now, when we put down a party-based selection to reveal the scope of this, it's so that we can follow it up against the Storting afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e679	I want to continue where the Central Party and the Workers' Party have relaxed, because we hear here that the Minister of Finance expresses sympathy for the million people who do not earn a pension from the first crown. The Minister of Finance also argues that the government has now submitted proposals on its own pension account, so that you get more pension from saving, which is precisely what pension from the first crown is about, namely that you actually lose quite a lot of money when you don't get earned pension from the first crown. So the intention there should be clear. But I am in the mood of what the government believes this party-based sample should be able to provide answers to which we do not already have a response today. Does the Minister of Finance agree with the parties that this is a question for the legislator?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e690	I believe that I have now really answered these questions several times. I am, as I said, concerned that the parties should be involved in that work. As has previously been said in this debate, there has been a question in the wage settlements where the parties have not been able to agree. I think it must be possible to get it done. Then I believe that the fact that this party-based sample is being set down by the government will help us to clear up any disagreements so that we can get on with the work.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e695	The contradiction is that businesses, businesses, think it's too expensive. That's the argument that's being argued, that it's going to cost the companies. And that's a cost that they have, which is actually an income for them today, because people don't earn a pension from the first penny because you don't have a proper pension scheme for low pay in Norway. So the question is, is the government willing to go in and say that this is a cost companies have to take? That's where the disagreement stands. The question is whether the government is willing to say to the NHO, say to the other people who have warned here now, that this is a cost that actually needs to be taken to ensure that the million that is currently unearthed from the first dollar today gets a pension from the first dollar.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e702	In my main post, I pointed to some of the potential spaces that can be located here as well, in terms of redeploying these costs to the individual company. I think we need to look for solutions to find a good answer to this, which both ensure that we get good pension benefits for the employees, but at the same time that we also ensure predictable and long-term financing of the schemes that lie in different parts of the pension system.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e708	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e715	There was not much involvement in that contribution from the Minister of Finance. I don't think she's burning to find a solution to this. There's no direction from the government. I think it is well argued by the speakers from the Workers' Party, the SV and, in part, the Senter Party for why we need this reform. It's a well-explained case. I have a very strong memory – the meeting with Christel Eilertsen, a 26-year-old girl who worked at Coop outside Bergen, very pleased with the job, 60 pst. job. Now she was told, at the age of 26, that pension for the first heads, you don't get that. Then tell her inwards – because there's no pension you think about when you're 26 years old – that something was about to happen to her prospects later in life. I want to mention three points. We should have taken a decision in line with the proposal that there is a pension from the first penny. We're correcting a historical injustice. The way it's going to happen is a lot of flexibility. I have heard the LO leader say that here you can discuss different models of phase-in and listen to the companies that have challenges – as we do in the best Norwegian way. This reminds us of 2014, when we had the discussion of pulling the oil fund out of the coal. Then there was agreement in this room, but there was an extra time purchased by the government with the cooperation parties for an investigation that was completely unnecessary, and we lost two years for that decision. But that's hope. I read the interview with the chairman of the Finance Committee in the Newspaper today, and I give tribute to Asheim, who thinks highly about retirement. What he's saying is interesting. He says that we are asked if we do not need further action to get more people to work. He says it might be that there's going to be an entirely current grip with the pension from the first penny. And on the other hand, ‘Rightly, that you will in the long term introduce a pension from the first crown — that you say that all your work will be paid in retirement.’ That's right! It's fair, but there's also a clear reason to say to those who work part-time in exposed jobs, that it pays to work. Many people who are outside will then come in and take a job. I think that's good. Then I would like to say that I hear the speeches of the Central Party speaking for this model, but I think it is incomprehensible that the Center Party is standing outside. And one reason for that: we were dealing with thousands of workers outside the Grand Duchy in a pension mark from the first penny. Per Olaf Lundtigen held a flaming post for retirement from the first crown. But I was not sure what was really in it, and I asked the assembly when I spoke for him: Did we hear here a will to support the pension from the first crown? Yeah, that's what you heard. But that will is now strongly downgraded, and the Center Party joins an investigation that is going to pull out in time. So with a government without will and direction – and that hardly looks up when we talk about the matter – it is clear that then this takes longer than necessary. I'm sorry about the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e732	The principle of penetrating the pension from the first penny is important for the Centre party. The Central Party proposes that a party-based selection be prepared for the necessary changes to implement this principle, before the government makes the necessary proposals for the Storting. In this context, the Central Party believes that we need to have a review of the pension system, with the aim of reducing the administrative costs of paid pensions – this is because an excessive proportion of paid service pensions for many employees today disappear in administrative and administrative costs. In addition, red tape and burdens on smaller enterprises, organisations, teams and associations must be reduced as much as possible. Many who are members of the Centre Party, and/or give their vote to the Centre Party, represent low-wage professions. For example, self-employed persons only have 75 pst. sick pay coverage after 16 days of retirement and a poorer social security net, whether there is sick pay or a pension. The centre party understands, therefore, the requirement for a statutory service pension for private business. Economic differences between people are increasing in society. We, as politicians, must work to reduce differences. In that work, I will highlight the following three things: the need for a well-organised working life, the taxation of ability and a strong social economic security network. The party believes that service pension agreements in private business must apply to all enterprises and all add. For the Centre Party, there is no argument against a service pension from the First Crown that the company has a weak salary. Employees shall not have poorer pension rules, rules established by the Stortinget, when they work for companies with low levels of pay. Equally possible conditions of competition between enterprises are also important. Wages and salaries are considered in the context of future wage settlements. The centre party has broad support from people who own a wide-ranging business community, and from the addition of varying degrees of association to the world of work. Today, small pension payments can be made up, so that the wage earner enjoys the service pension. It is particularly important to reduce administrative and administrative costs. All employers have to report income information and add it through the a-scheme. Therefore, it should be assessed whether payment for a private service pension may be related to this reporting to the public interest, and then distributed by agreement. For me, it is important to stress that the central party asks the government to submit proposals that implement the principle of pension from the first dollar.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e747	We have a much more unsocial pension system in Norway than before, and it needs to be repaired. Those with heavy jobs, often low pay, are punished. Those without physically demanding jobs, often high pay, win. Lifetime adjustment is a major problem in this. There's nothing we get done about now, but we can take a long and important step towards a fairer pension system, if we introduce a pension from the first penny for everyone. The case we are dealing with today includes the pension rights of one million workers. The director and most highly paid people get a pension for all the work they do. The hairdresser, the waiter, the shopkeeper and the part-time employee in a commercial nursing home do not get it. In practice, many people have to wait until far out in the spring before starting to earn a pension for the work they do. It is simply unfair, and that means that we have a working life and a pension system that doesn't value everyone's efforts in the same way. That's the basic thing in this case: to value everyone's work in this country. Private sector workers, low-paid workers, do work as valuable as others. We can put an end to this injustice, and that's the Biggest Table. We have promoted this case here, because it has not been possible to find solutions in other ways. That is why it is wrong now to send this case back to the parties without establishing a clear principle. That's the principle that a pension from the first dollar applies, one has no right to agree. That's why this solution doesn't give the signal that's needed. And the objection that the proposal from SV and the Workers' Party does not point to how all the details should be resolved is not a good objection. It is very clear in the proposal that we are open to many rounds of detail, of course, in this system, but that the Storting must determine which principle should apply. Therefore, I must say that I also share the disappointment of the Centre Party in this matter. We share a commitment to a fairer working life to raise workers in the political debate, but few proposals can be as important to workers in Norway as this. Not to talk about the Progress Party, a party that likes to talk about the workers, but a less committed post than what came today from the otherwise very good speaker, Siv Jensen, you should look for a long time. The party of progress is engaged in tax havens for the rich. They don't want a fairer pension. What we need now is a pension system for the many and not just a pension policy for the few on top.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e760	We're a lot of people in the room who are disappointed with the conclusions of the plural today, but at the same time we know the loop in the process. We knew where it was, we know where the right party has its sympathies – and it's not with ordinary workers. Out-of-work youth, part-time workers and many women in low-time jobs who had hoped for better conditions, for a better and fairer pension. It's not like that, we're going back to the start. That is the responsibility of the government party – and unfortunately also of the Center Party. Three out of four are some of the proposals that all employees should be entitled to pension ignition from the first penny. One million Nordics could get the same pension rate as the rest of the world of work if we introduced this now. Today's scheme, with compulsory service pension in the private sector, is grossly unfair. It frames mainly those who think least and who have weak social ties. As we see it, there is no good reason not to support this proposal. Today’s OTP rules have adverse distributional effects. The hardest affected by this weakness in the service pension system are often those with low wages, mostly women and/or young people with part-time settings and insecure social relationships. The proposal from the left would therefore have meant a clear improvement of the current pension scheme. The changes could increase the pension rate for many employees and the better economy for future pensioners. The free trade movement wrote in January about the operator Henrik. He's 37 years old, and he's in security control at the Gardermo. He charges NOK 372,000, but 96 000 of these do not provide pension ignition. It is not because the employer is not complying with the law, it is against the law because the employer is complying with the law. The size now had the ability to do something about it. Putting down a selection to make this happen again doesn't give Henrik and the many more dollars in retirement. To evaluate the pension from the first penny, as the conclusion is to stay here today, is hardly worth the paper it's written on. This case has already been thoroughly resolved, it is ready for examination and ready for decision. I think when this doesn't get multiples, there's one reason. The government party will not give fair pensions to workers, but will dare not say so openly. The case should be trained in government offices, in the hope that the trade movement, the voters and the opposition will forget. But we don't, and the government will notice with full force in the upcoming municipal and urban options.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e773	One million people in the private sector do not receive pension ignition from the first dollar. The Labour Party, in conjunction with SV, wants all paid work to ignite the pension in Norway. Because the government wants to bring down a party-set selection to evaluate the pension from the first krona, it is not necessary. The matter has been resolved and ready to be introduced. LO supports the pension reform and wants the principle of reform to apply to all. It is time to finalise the pension reform by ensuring that even the low-paid, and especially women, receive the same dishes as is usual in highly-paid human occupations. A pension from the first crown is a logical extension of the pension reform, and in the new national allowance, a pension increase from the first crown is an important principle. Introducing a service pension from the first crown is not a rematch, but the last remaining adjustment to the pension reform. The objection from both the Center Party and the four government parties to more representation is not required. In 2016, in the context of the mediation in the front business between the Joint Confederation/LO and the Norwegian Industry/NHO in the wage settlement, a question from the national broker was sent to the Prime Minister. In the above, it went, among other things, to the effect that there was agreement between the parties that a request had been made for legal work to be undertaken with a view to modernising private sector pension schemes and that the mandate had been clarified. Government and gambling are responsible. Equality of law will not affect anyone in the industry harder than anyone else. Nor is there any reasonable economic argument that anyone should be given a much higher proportion of pension savings than others. Working will be more rewarding, strengthening the taskbar. In addition, pensions will also increase purchasing power in the population, increase tax revenue and, in general, speed up the economy. The fact that the government has such an attitude to this proposal is to some extent expected, but that the central party has almost the same view, is a mystery to me. It really surprises me, and it's not in line with previous promises.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e786	Introducing compulsory occupational pension, OTP, from the first crown, is no rematch, as many claim here, but the last remaining adjustment to the pension reform. When the OTP Act was adopted in 2005, there was no new popular support. New population protection was first addressed in the Stortinget in 2007. The deficit then decided that all income up to 7,1 G, the basic amount – almost NOK 690000 – would be pensionable. The base of earnings before it was included in retirement pension schemes was linked to the old social security system, where there was a distinction between basic pension and the provision of supplementary pension for income above 1 G. However, this distinction is no longer part of the new pension scheme in the social security system. On the other hand, in new public welfare, first-aid service provision is an important principle. It corrected many injustices in the old people's fear, especially for those with such low supplementary pensions that they did not get over the special supplement. They thus received only the minimum pension, despite the social security contributions paid. Many of them were low-paid, mostly part-time workers, often women. This injustice has been left to more than one million workers in the private sector — many of the same groups who previously became minimum pensioners in the public sector, despite their own making. It's time to correct that injustice as well. We know what it's all about, we don't need any more investigations. As a big representative, I have been involved in promoting a good deal of representative proposals, but I have never felt that proposals have aroused so much enthusiasm among those affected, as in this case. It's not so strange, because many people haven't even realized that they haven't earned a pension from the first crown, that they have to have a higher employment rate than 20 p.m., that they don't earn a pension at all until they're 20 years old, while the population's pension now has a 13-year-old age limit, that it won't be a pension if you leave before work is 12 months old. The latter will particularly affect those in temporary posts. And then finally, even if you were to fill all of these criteria, you have to realize that they don't get a pension for the first almost $100,000 they earn. It's the hardest thing to notice for those with low wages. Trade is a typical example – and hotel, restaurant, cleaning. At the other end, we have those who earn the most, typically managers in large, private companies, who have pension agreements others can only dream of, often with higher payments than minimum and from the first crown. One million Norwegian workers have every reason to be disappointed by the bulk of the population today. The case is sent out on desert migration, so it seems that one million workers will have to wait until after the fall in 2021 to get their fair pension from the first penny. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e801	I have heard someone say that the proposal we are now enthusiastic about today is not in line with the pension agreement. It's the government's position that's not in line with the pension agreement, because some of the main idea of popularism was just that one should have earnings from the first crown. What has happened later in the case of public service pension builds up under that principle – pension from the first crown, and the same system we have in the AFP. Retirement benefits are compulsory. Now, when the government parties and the Central Party stop this proposal, it breaks with the intention of our entire pension system, because that's what should be the point. When I say that, it's because I know it. For I was the one who presented the legislative proposals that underpin the changes in the social security system – which underpin the building up of the occupational pension system. Now, when they say that we are dealing with such a proposal in Stortinget, it is completely wrong. On the contrary, when I presented the proposals that I mentioned here, I was repeatedly, often, in Stortinget and spoke with the then parliamentary leader Solberg and other of the partners. Siv Jensen was not there, because they opposed the pension agreement. However, after this government took over, not one initiative – not once – has been taken from the government to discuss with the contracting partners the further development of the pension system, where pensions from the first crown of public service pension should be a quite natural consequence. Not once has the government taken the initiative to involve the contractual partners in maintaining the broad consensus that I saw as absolute that we need when it comes to the pension system. On the other hand, what we're now discussing is that it contributes to social dumping, which the government has been doing incredibly little activity to counteract. For the pension system we now have in the private sector, it stimulates short-term employment, i.e. job-free employment. If we introduce a pension from the first penny, it will also apply to those who currently have cheap labour, because they offer poor employment. One theme of the government's declaration of accession was the obvious statistics showing that while high pay is getting more and more, low pay is getting lower wages. These are the same people who will also now be denied a decent pension on the day they leave. Today, those of my colleagues who are now out in the woods in deep snow, or people who work in smaller entrepreneurship companies, or in the many women's industries mentioned earlier, could get a better pension system. I note that the Centre Party, together with the government parties, is helping to stop the rights of workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e814	A good pension is about security for the future and for the workers. Together with all the permanent jobs, it is absolutely essential in a safe and fair working life. It's also about trust in society. People trust that this is okay, but it's not like that for everyone. Just before the debate, I spoke to Wenche, who is elected to trust. She told about many of the colleagues she had around her, who have worked for many years in good faith that things were on the lookout, and that they get a pension when the time comes, and that gets a shock when they discover how much they have lost the years that have gone on. Today's system, along with government policy, is increasing differences. It increases insecurity and weakens confidence in society. There are many employers who know very well how to use today's system. With me on the platform, I have a contract designed by a staff agency, which both bypasses the new lease provisions that the Stortinget has recently adopted, and which effectively ensures that the employee who signs this does not get a single penny in earned pension. It's time the Storting took hold. People are responsible for checking for themselves, often say right-wing representatives. An individual pension account is good, so you can keep an overview, but this is an unfair system. And rather than taking responsibility and helping to seal the holes and the injustice that are, the right-hand side obviously lives well on that injustice continues. Their solution is to have people take care of themselves with private insurance. Now, however, they have probably realized that they have a very bad case, so they are promoting proposals for investigation. It's nothing but a skin manoeuvre. Neither do the parties and the Minister of Finance manage to respond to what is new that they need to investigate. There is nothing in the way that the government – if the Stortinge had adopted the proposals of the Workers' Party, the SVs and several parties – can also involve the social partners in promoting a cause for the Stortinge. But this is about the government not wanting to. It's about one of the social partners not wanting to. It is therefore only a collection of time because you really do not want to solve this matter. I find it sad that today Wenche can't tell his colleagues that Stortinget is willing to make sure that the work they're doing, the labor they're standing in every single day, also pays off in the form of a good pension for all of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e829	I would say that in a good democracy, the most important task is always to take care of those who are weakest in society. It should be an important task for the Norwegian magnification as well. The development of inequality is also in the process of pinning the grip on Norway. We all know that. We've been shown that in many ways. A little bit ahead, we're all going to have to pay a pretty high price for that. We see how this develops in other countries in Europe. When one hears this debate, an important and central issue arises: why is it so easy for the majority of the Storting, evenly and without any kind of investigation, to adopt cuts in all kinds of schemes that intend to help those who are weakest: There were three years of redundancy instead of four. In the context of the budget: the housing aid scheme. Was it investigated how it will work? No, no, no. Legal aid scheme: cut. Was it investigated how it is going to work for those who are the weakest in the judicial system? No, no, no. Then the decisions were taken without turning a blind eye. But when we get to this point – where it's about justifying the workline in the right way, as Asheim talks about fine in the media today – then we have to rediscover something that's done, just because you don't want to politically. That is what is going on in this debate, in this Chamber and on this day. The fact that the Center Party isn't involved is just completely incomprehensible. I am unable to capture the Central Party's argument in this matter at all. It may be said later, and it's fine, but at least I haven't been able to understand it until now. But I'm just recording this attitude. The Progress Party says that tolls are a major problem for the population, but this is not a major problem – this can be investigated and waited for instead of adopting what should be adopted. That's how liberalism works. The question then arises how to maintain the workline. Or do you think you should do that, but use large parts of the population as a draw game in the world of work and exploit them – as they are exploited today because they are not granted this right? That is the sad reality of the current situation. And I say it again: Christian People's Party, which was at the verge of being part of this, they're these of the political load now, of course.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e856	This case is about politics, and whether you want less differences in reality, or whether it's just nice speech. The question is, should we continue to have a law that systematically creates increased differences between pensioners? Because now we have. In recent years, we have been able to change some of the elements of this, which have made us less poor pensioners than before, but the difference that we have in compulsory occupational pension does not contribute to it. It is that this affects many of those who have the worst wages and the worst connection to the world of work already, and therefore also have the worst benefits, including in the fear of the people. There's a lot of talk about the taskbar. And the pension from the first heads is the line of work -- that's what the line of work is. A lot of people I meet have little connection to the work life, but they're struggling with it and want to work. So they have to thank you for not having compulsory occupational retirement provision, like others. If there's someone who could need it, it's really them, so we don't feel that more pensioners get poor. This happens at the same time that pensioners have largely also lost the right to housing support because income limits and expenditure limits have not been regulated. This is what's happening at the same time. The representative of Kolberg was up and told – quite correctly – about how cut for the disadvantaged is carried out without a single impact assessment. Yes, exactly the same way you are able to turn billions into people who really have salt in their food – without a single impact assessment. So that's not hard. But in the case of a fair scheme, so that you get a service for the job you actually do, it's very difficult. The parties have sought a political solution. They've asked for it, and like the Workers' Party representatives, I'm not disappointed with the Center Party, to say it like that, I'm just angry. I am angry on behalf of all those who had now deserved that the Storting had seen this injustice and fixed the principle once and for all. Sending this over to the government without a clear decision here in Stortinget, is asking someone who doesn't want to, to do something they don't want to do at all, and then it's pretty easy not to do it. So this I think is a sad day, but next time we're going to win, because this is a fair case.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e872	I really believe we are in this matter – and it has been reflected in the treatment we have had in the finance committee on this – discussing two things. One is the principle of entering a pension from the first penny into a public service pension. The second is the process of how we make this kind of changes in our pension scheme. I'm not going to take that freedom to talk on behalf of the Center Party, but at least I can talk on behalf of the government parties when we say that it's important how tripartite cooperation is treated also from Stortinget. Tripartite cooperation is one of the best with the Norwegian model. It is a scheme that creates trust between the employer and the employee. This has led to a very responsible, proper and proper professional movement, but also an employer page that has met the trade union movement in their demands. You've respected each other. Therefore, when the oil price fall came, the parties agreed with the government to extend the permit law. It is also the tripartite cooperation that has created the front-line model. Now that you are discussing a pension from the first penny, as I have correctly been expressed by several representatives, and as I have said today, it is a principle that we are going to introduce in Norway, and there may be good arguments to do so. However, when this has been one of three main issues between the parties recently, when the employer’s side of the negotiation has agreed to an increase in the crown supplement for the lowest wages, which is thus an increased cost for example. the commercial industry, labour-intensive industries and agriculture, which hires a lot of labour during periods, is the question: should we then take a rematch to the third requirement, which has a cost of about 3 billion. I'm going to have a little bit of a different number here, but I'm going to have about three billion dollars. kr – on behalf of one party, even if the other party disagrees? We have a redeployment of the population in Norway, and then we have the public service pension. And for the government parties, this is probably so much about that we're going to make these kind of changes, with so much increased costs for one party in tripartite cooperation, it has to be done in cooperation and seen in a complete settlement. That's what we're arguing for. I record that Workers' Party representatives have called this to send it out on a desert hike or to train the case or that it is a skin process. Tripartite cooperation is not a desert migration or a rail process; it is a respectful work between employees, employers and the state. And if we're going to respect that, we also have to respect it in these kinds of cases. You can ask the opposition question: how would they react if it was the opposite – if someone proposed to implement a requirement that the NHO had had but that the LO had stopped in the negotiations?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e885	Questions have been asked about the Centre Party's commitment to the proposal for a pension from the first penny. There is no need for any questions asked. The dividing lines in this case are not between the Centre Party and the Working Party, SV and other parties, but between the Government Party and the opposition. The party does not support the loose proposal from the government party to set up a Partyal Selection to evaluate the pension from the first krona. I'm asking the Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party to read the proposal from the Center Party a little bit more voice, from their hearts. Our proposal is to ask the government to make proposals that implement the pension principle from the first penny. So we're not asking for an assessment, but we're asking for proposals to implement the pension principle from the first penny. This change should be preceded by a Partyal Selection that lasts to that principle. So we're going to establish the principle of pension from the first heads, and it's true, as the case-speaker said, that the center part pre-concludes what a selection of the parties is going to be. It shall set out how the principle of pensions from the first crown is to be implemented. We don't expose it to a new desert hike, as someone claims, we don't train it, we don't push on the proposal. That's what the government party does. The centre party will establish the principle today. We don't stand outside. That's what the government party does. And of course, we do not, along with the government party, favour stopping the rights of workers, who have also been said. There must be limits. That the Labour Party and, in part, SV chose to go to a very hard attack on the Center Party in this matter, I actually thought that I was unlucky. Here, a white woman must be a friend and an enemy. One should not, therefore, doubt the views of the Centre Party; I think that our proposal is very clear. We want to correct this historical injustice, and we want the Storting to establish that principle today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e896	We are discussing a very important issue: how people can get a decent and safe old age, and how we as a society are going to make sure that there is predictability for workers in all parts of Norwegian working life. When we in the Central Party have had a long history of pensions, it is because we were part of the pension commission that in 2004 provided the basis for the introduction of compulsory occupational pensions in the private sector. It was a wise and important grip, which was carried out by the red-green government. In the legislation currently in force, there are several conditions for compulsory occupational retirement provision – both age, employment rate, 12 months of employment, and earnings above 1G. So we know that in other parts of pension legislation there are several other constraints on who gets pension benefits. It's a fact. Once we have concluded what we have done, it is precisely to take into account the fact that there is a proposal from the Labour Party – and... [[The President coughs]] That's why we write in our proposal that we're very clear that we're going to implement the pension principle from the first dollar. It's quite clear, and it's not possible to misunderstand if you read it. Then we say that when you're going to implement the principle of retirement from the first crown, it's going to be prepared by a party-based selection that respects this principle, just like when Dag Terje Andersen was the Council of State. Then the red-green government set down a party-based selection – led by Dag Terje Andersen – to look at improvements in public service pensions and in the AFP scheme, just as in 2010 LO asked for a plan to be reviewed, and asked for a party-based selection. This is the wise model: to listen to the trade movement, to listen to employers, and that the state, at the Council of State, is involved in looking at how to find the right solution, so that you remove the different constraints today, and that it actually becomes a pension from the first dollar. What is the problem with the rhetoric of the Workers' Party is that it seems that they want to make false contradictions between the Center Party and themselves, because the rhetoric of the matter is more important than the content of the case. For us, the content of the matter is important, that one should remove the different constraints of pension provision and that it should be done in cooperation with the parties. It is a wise strategy, not an unwise strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e911	I felt the need to just comment on a few of the things that have been said in the debate. The attitude of the Centre Party is called into question. I previously recorded that the Central Party's fiscal figures argued that one cannot change pension plans through a representative proposal in Stortinget. I think that's a little strange, because we're dealing with the Labour and Social Committee right now with a proposal from the Central Party where one is proposing to change completely concretely the rules in the field of public occupational pension. So I don't get that argument to completely relate. So to Asheim and the second point. It is claimed in the debate from the right that pensions from the first heads belong in the tariff negotiations. That also means the trade union movement, but it was the employer's side that said no, it belongs to the legislator. And when we take the employer's side seriously, it's called rematch. It sounds a little illogical, in my opinion. The NHO would not discuss the question of retirement at all, so it has not been part of the tariff negotiations. But here the NHO can quickly have made rice for itself. I just want to remind you that a pension fund is not more expensive for an employer than a payroll. In this way, it would rather be beneficial for the NHO and employers that pensions and wages were viewed in a coherent and balanced way in the carrying capacity of companies, as the trade union movement has long traditions to contribute to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e920	In the debate we have heard that there is a great need for more knowledge in order to do something about this matter. I think it's quite strange – when there's a case of people from the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority sitting with the parties and making a separate investigation on both costs and assessments. In this case, tripartite cooperation is pushed ahead and is surprised that we are doing something that is not agreed in the tripartite cooperation. I understand that you are, because I've never realized that, for example. the start of taxing the termination benefit scheme has been discussed in tripartite cooperation and adopted there. So the understanding of tripartite cooperation is quite special. So it's hard to understand what the Center Party really means in this case. It makes sense to read what the setting says. There's the central party with the government parties, and they say – and I think you should read what's in the setting when you're going to figure out what you really mean – that ‘It would be irreconcilable if the Storting should now decide on the claims of one party and impose significant additional costs on the other without being part of an agreement in a pay settlement or other form of agreement between the parties’. What does that mean? Do we have to wait until the parties agree before introducing a pension from the first penny? When we know at the same time that the director of the NHO said in the news just after discussing this in the previous pension settlement, that this is a matter for the legislator, we actually take the NHO seriously. The other thing in the setting is that changes can only be made ‘by wide agreement in the Storing’. No one has taken any initiative on a broad settlement in the Storting, and then there's a reason to ask, what are the criteria that should be met for the Center Party and the others here in this Chamber to agree that we should introduce a pension from the first penny? I think I've heard a lot of double communication here, I still think there are a lot of people trying to ride two horses. You try to agree a little – it's about as difficult as being a little pregnant.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e936	I would like once again to ask representatives – in this case the representative of Aasrud – to read what is stated in the proposal for a decision of the Central Party in this matter: ‘The government asks the government to submit proposals implementing the first-head pension principle. This amendment shall be prepared by a body of parties to this principle.’.» That's the proposal the Central Party has put forward in this case, which we would have hoped it could be a broad support in Stortinget, if there is actually a break in the principle of pension from the first crown. We say quite clearly in our proposal: the government will present proposals that implement the pension principle from the first crown. Then the process to be carried out, with the party-grouped sample, needs to ensure that it is maintained – that good solutions are found. I have also shown the views of the Centre Party in my exchange of lines with the Council of State today – that the principle should be implemented. Good solutions to this need to be found through tripartite cooperation, where the State must also clarify its role in contributing to it. That's why it's important not just to say as the government parties say: – Yes, we're going to discuss the question. No, the Stortinge will decide on the pension principle from the first penny. This would have been done if the Stortinge had voted in favour of the proposal of the Centre Party, and not only proposed to amend one of the laws dealing with the issue of pension from the first crown, namely the law on compulsory occupational pension, but for example. also the law on the contribution pension. In the case of other restrictions on what is believed to be the principle that all workers should have a pension from the first crown, several amendments to the Norwegian law have to be made. But I interpret what the Labour Party says in the debate, in the best sense. They believe that other parts of the Norwegian law that affect whether you will earn a pension from the first penny should also be reviewed. That principle should be established. Then we should stick together about it. Then we should agree that the clear order will be sent to the parties in tripartite cooperation, and the government will, in the follow-up to it, present proposals implementing the first dollar pension principle. More clearly, it cannot be said in a proposal for a decision. I ask representatives who are once again trying to create confusion about it – it may well be that they can try to twist what they should or should not have in their comments – to read our proposal for a decision, what the Central Party invites the Stortinget to be in this room today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e950	It is interesting to hear the government parties hail the tripartite cooperation, a tripartite cooperation they have almost ignored so far during their reign when they have implemented their own policies. Now it is obviously very important for them, only because they see that this can be their way of directing attention away from the fact that the matter is actually about – you spend time and don't let go of what is the reality of the matter. The issues discussed here are already well settled. It has emerged in the debate. The position of the parties is clear. The employee organisations want the Storting to take this step. The NHO itself has pointed out that this must be up to the legislator. I also think that this matter is one of the first issues – at least in the field of working life – where we see a new arrogance from the new majority. The progress party, which has previously claimed to be concerned with the pensioners, has now shown a total lack of interest in this issue. They keep uncommitted posts and don't want to grab hold of them. The right largely runs empty-talk. They talk like they want this to come into place, but they put an effective stop to it by laying on the left, which I haven't even seen in the hall. The Christian People's Party is obviously trapped in government and has no view of the matter. Earlier in the big age period, it was actually possible to get things done, both by talking to the Christian People's Party, which was then not in government, and a few majority, like then, for example. had access to the lease in place. Now we see that that door is obviously closed, and that Erna Solberg's words that you should listen to and be open to signals also from the minority on the Stortinget, also were empty talk. I believe that in particular in the field of working life now we will see a new change, which means that you don't listen, that you run your own race, and that the inequality you're now seeing grows in the world of work, will just increase, now that you've got the majority behind you. I think it's sad that this was the first case in which one seriously shows what a majority government on the civil side means.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e961	The representative, Rigmor Aasrud, had the word twice before and got the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e966	I take the floor to respond to the comments of the representative Gielsvik. It is true that the proposals that are being promoted in the Grand Duchy are also related to the comments made in the case under consideration. I believe that the centre party in its comments is quite clear that it is not possible to decide on this without the parties agreeing. There's something quite different than what's said in the hall right now. That is why we cannot support that proposal. But I hope, with what the representative Gülsvik says, that we will support our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e971	For me, it's important that we manage to introduce pensions from the first heads. But it sometimes seems that for some in this debate it is not most important to introduce pensions from the first heads, but to try to look at the other parties' positions. Then it becomes a political game, and political games serve no one. Not least Rigmor Aasrud, Dag Terje Andersen and all those who have been partly responsible for this field, or completely responsible for it in government, know that there are many laws that are affected. If you were to interpret things in the worst sense, you could say that the Labour Party's proposal is just about the point of 1 G. That's what the decision actually says. But I'm choosing to think that's not what the Workers' Party has been thinking, but that you're going to have to change a number of constraints, because there are several constraints that remain, so that many of those who currently have poor earnings are going to get better service. When you read our proposal No. 2, it's quite clear that we're going to implement the pension principle from the first penny. We write the 'principle' just because this is about more than just the 1 G counter. There are also many other barriers. And it's going to be prepared by a party selection that respects this principle. There is a clear order for the government and a clear order for the parties to implement it, but we think it is wise that the parties actually participate in designing the way it is done. The next proposal from us is that it has to be done in a way that makes the administrative costs low, so that it really becomes that those who pay a small amount of pensions get real payments. If this is done in a bad way, an unwise way, there are payments, and then a lot goes into fees and administration costs. It is amazing that the Working Party so actively chooses to misunderstand it. It's about an electoral thing instead of having an involvement with Norwegian workers. That's what we have, and we want to make improvements. We see that what the Center Party, the Workers' Party and the SV introduced into government was not good enough, and we want to do better. We also believe that it is a wise Norwegian tradition that we actually take the parties to it. As compulsory occupational retirement provision works on a day-to-day basis, we know that there are too many costs to manage the small amounts. Here there'll be a lot of small amounts, and if this isn't done in a wise way, it won't really be better for that guy or the lady when they leave retirement when they're some and sixty years old. The point is that they will actually get a little better purchasing power than they do with today's system. That is why I do not understand why the Workers' Party cannot be pleased that there are several parties who want the principle. We think we have a more thoughtful proposal that goes beyond what is available from the Workers' Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e986	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e1002	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be a possibility of replying to replies from members of the Government. In addition, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e1013	I would like to thank the Committee on Good Cooperation. The case concerns two SV proposals to reintroduce the inheritance tax, which the majority of the committee chooses not to support. The inheritance fee was removed from 2014 and the purpose was the one that now included. to facilitate the liquidity burden of generation shifts in family businesses and the transfer of family property. The change was for the taxpayer a simplification of a complex regulatory framework and it reduced the administrative costs of the tax rate. The majority of the Committee therefore emphasises the importance of safeguarding these considerations and of maintaining the removal of the inheritance tax. It is also in line with the Granavolden platform. At the same time, when the government removed the inheritance tax, changes were made to the income tax. The principle of continuity was introduced as a general rule. The heir acquires the tax values and positions of the heir, and any increase in the capitalisation of the heir’s ownership time will be taxed at the later disposal of the object. If you, for example, Take over the shares and sell them with a gain, you have to tax it fairly. These changes have in several cases resulted in an increase in income tax because the basis for calculating sales gains is higher and because depreciation bases and shielding deductions are often lower. It is reasonable to assume that this increase was greater for the high income groups than for the low income groups. The value of the inheritance is taxed, but it happens at a less uplifting and vulnerable time and in a progressive tax system according to what ability you actually have to pay. The majority of the Committee takes the view that this is a fairer tax regime. In addition to this, I will now elaborate on the Right's position in the matter. The inheritance tax created challenges for many. It lay like a dark cloud over the generation change in many Norwegian family businesses and put jobs under pressure. It created difficulties for ordinary people. Many people felt deeply unfair that they had to pay a fee to keep their childhood home when someone in the family died — a tax that did not take into account their ability to pay. At worst, people had to borrow and sell their homes because they couldn't afford it. SV has said that people can just take up loans to pay, but is there something we don't need more of in this country, is that people get even more debt. For the Right, it is important to create a society with opportunities for everyone, small differences and trust between people. To do that, we need to secure jobs, integrate and include and build a strong social security network and a school with opportunities for everyone. We have to have a fair and progressive tax system where those who have the most contribute the most. However, the inheritance tax was not an effective measure for small differences. It hit hardest in ordinary families where death occurred abruptly, and those with the lowest income paid relatively more than those with high income. The inheritance fee was unfair. Now people pay taxes fairly according to the ability to pay they actually have. When we removed the inheritance fee, it was for major protests from the Workers' Party. I am pleased that they have now turned around, but I regret to doubt how long it will last in the negotiations with their even more reddish allies. That's why I'm glad that the non-socialist government insists that we don't want to reintroduce the unfair inheritance tax, and that we stand firm on smaller symbol policies that affect ordinary people, and more action to create a society with opportunities for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e1034	I register that the representative Stokkebø already now assumes that the Workers' Party will return to the government offices and negotiate with our partners. That's nice. The idea behind the proposal to reintroduce inheritance taxation is in and on its own good, a contribution to a fairer distribution of the tax burden. The problem is that it worked better on paper than in reality. There was also a background for the Stoltenberg government to significantly increase the bottomline and large groups to avoid the inheritance tax. The inheritance fee did not turn out to be particularly accurate. The possibilities for those with large assets to organise themselves in whole or in part away from taxation were great. It was also complicated and burdensome at the time of a generation change in family businesses, as explained by the case-rapporteur. But the background for promoting the proposal, the concern for the growing inequalities in society, is fully shared by the Workers' Party. More and more wealth is concentrated on fewer and fewer hands. The 10 pst. The richest owner now close to 60 pst. of all assets. Only ten years back was the share of 48 pst., which was bad enough. So it's gone in the wrong direction, driven forward, for example. of the tax policy of this government. We believe that the wealth tax is a better way to balance differences and counteract the growing inequality. It's also a better source of income. The taxes on wealth are paid each year. The inheritance fee is a one-time phenomenon. In 2013, the last year of inheritance tax, the income from the inheritance tax was 2 billion. kr. From the property tax, 16 billion came in. NOK, eight times as much. In our alternative budget for this year, we proposed to increase the tax rate on wealth by over 1.5 million. kr to 1,1 pst. and introduce a new step for assets of more than 5 million. kr. It would give even greater income to the community. In addition, our income tax regime would be a contribution to a fairer distribution. All with income below NOK 750000 would receive a lower tax, those with income above it would receive a slightly higher tax than that adopted — a lower tax burden on those who need it, a higher tax on those who tolerate it. It is a policy that creates less differences and fairer distribution – year by year. In a note in this setting, which also includes government parties, it is underlined that ‘it is important to create a society with opportunities for all, small differences and trust between people’. And it points to important measures that need to be taken. So there seems to be a cross-political breakdown of this important objective. At the same time, it is undeniable that development is moving in the opposite direction. The differences are increasing. In the last ten to twelve years, many have experienced a partly strong trend in income. But someone - the ones who serve least - has been hanging out for. Yes, some have even been reduced in purchasing power. We may disagree on the causes of this development, on the driving forces that drive it, and on the extent to which political decisions weaken or strengthen development. However, it should be agreed that this development must be reversed when the objective is in the opposite direction. That is why the Labour Party has put forward a proposal to ask the government to put forward a plan to reduce the economic differences between people. I believe that this is a proposal that all the parties can support here today. With that, I'll take up the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e1055	The representative Svein Roald Hansen has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e1060	SV and Rødt want to reintroduce the ‘death tax’, or the inheritance tax, which is probably the formal and correct word. This is about the fact that when you inherit, you have to pay a tax, which the Progress Party fought against for many years. Therefore, it is very gratifying to ensure that this tax was removed from 1 January 2014. It's interesting to read why SV and Red want to reintroduce the 'death tax', the inheritance tax, and I think there's a lot of lobster and canari in the argument about why to do this. One of the parties argues with and promotes growth in wealth and family dynasties – that inheritance taxes are important to combat differences in power and wealth, and that many inherit this money. But there are also many who create these values themselves, and who leave them to the next generation in a good way – you haven't had money, but you've managed to create them. One of them is one of Norway's richest, Olav Thon. He is such a person who did not have much money, but who has managed to create something that is fantastic, that provides opportunities, and which I think one should be allowed to dispose of and give away. What's also special here is that many common people were hit by the inheritance fee. There were ordinary people who couldn't keep the dwelling they inherited. You had to sell because you had to pay the inheritance fee to the state. There have been examples of students who inherited from their mother or father who passed away who had to sell the home they had received, because they had no money to pay the inheritance fee. This is a very bad solution, and that is why I am very happy today. It was a very nice day on 1 January 2014, and it is a very good day today, when a large majority say no to SV and Red's proposal to reintroduce the inheritance fee. I'm very happy about that and very happy about it. I think it doesn't have to be said that much more. This is just a happy day, when we make sure that we do not reintroduce an unsocial and bad thing that this government has managed to get rid of. And it is a pleasure to see that the Workers' Party, which has been a very supporter and champion of the fee, is today making sure to agree with the government parties that we are not going to do it now. But I am concerned, and that means that this government must continue if you are to ensure that the inheritance fee does not come back.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e1073	It is gratifying to hear that a representative from the Progress Party can finally argue against a fee. The inheritance tax is also about taxation of income, but what has been seen in recent years is that the tax system in Norway has become less fair. There are things that should have worked better in the tax system as it used to be. But what you've seen in recent years, with the majority and the government that you've had, is that there's been massive tax relief for those who've already been the most, both for those who have big incomes, and for those who have huge wealth, and then there's been tax increases for people the most. That is why there is a need to make changes to the tax system, to make it more redistributive, to make it fairer and to provide people with low incomes and small assets – or who, for that matter, do not have any wealth at all, but who may be heavily indebted – in a better way than today. That's what the Center Party does. We have made a number of proposals in our alternative budgets that could have made sure that those who have low and medium incomes had some significantly lower taxes than they do today, while those who have high incomes and large wealth would have contributed more to the community than they do today. They also have their backs to carry it. It's just through the current tax rate from year to year of the income you have, and of the wealth you have, we want to contribute by making the tax system more redistributive. What we are talking about in this matter is whether one in Norway is going to reintroduce a system of inheritance fees that was demanding. One thing is that it was demanding for many family-run enterprises to settle for generations in a situation where one has had a death — it may be a sudden and unexpected death — and then one is in a difficult situation to solve also the challenges such as: The inheritance fee went. However, the inheritance tax was also a challenge in terms of distribution, because it did not seem to be redistributive in any context. On the contrary, there were some that were actually set with quite large values, which also managed to avoid paying the inheritance fee, while people who set with less values had to pay the inheritance fee. Therefore, it was wise that one in the red-green period reduced the inheritance fee. An increase in the base deduction significantly and, when looking ahead, it makes sense not to reintroduce inheritance taxes, but instead to look at how, through both income taxes and the taxation of wealth in Norway, one can contribute to a more equitable tax system. There is a need when one sees the great differences between people in Norway. One also sees the burden that many people experience from day to day by increasing the fees with a sitting government – the first five years with the Advance Party in government: 6.6 billion. In the case of net increased taxes in Norway – which has hit ordinary people, who have hit business, which has led to a 36pst increase in electricity charges. during that period, the Progress Party has sat with the Minister of Finance and that there has been an increase in charges for those travelling by train, for those travelling by plane and for those taking a taxi. Many other charges have also been increased, as well as record tolls in Norway. Therefore, there is a need to take political action, both to ensure that taxes are reduced in Norway, which particularly affects those who are at least from the outset, and to ensure a stronger redistribution within the tax system by reducing the tax on those who have low incomes and that those who have both high incomes and large wealth can contribute slightly more to the community than they do today. They have good back to carry it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e1088	It should be a fundamental principle of modern democracy that one cannot inherit power and positions. I think most people in this room are in complete agreement about that. Nevertheless, most people in this room are opposed to the introduction of a inheritance tax. It can only be because you actually don't understand what taxes on inheritance are, and how it works. Differences in Norway are increasing. The rich are moving away. Differences in wealth have increased more in Norway than in many other countries we can compare with. Figures from the SSB show that the richest percentage in Norway today owns a quarter of all wealth. That means that the remainder, 99 pst. by us, divide by the remaining three quarters. Families with the largest wealth have increased their share of total wealth in society in recent years. What does that mean? An increase in the income and wealth shares of a smaller group in society leads to increased global and national influence and greater concentration of power over resources and persons. That power can also become political, and it has a lot to say who has the means and resources to reach out with his reality and his stand and fight for his good. Of course, Norway's wealthiest is inheritance tax and property tax, and they get the message effectively on the front page of the VG. In other words, the power can make the rich richer. Therefore, inheritance taxes are, in effect, a tax on power. Can we not just tax wealth, as the Labour Party calls for in the vote, and as we hear here in the debate? Well, we're going to do it too. But it's important to understand that it's not enough. Inheritance has become increasingly important for concentration of wealth and is itself a major source of inequality. It shows, among other things: Picetti in the book Capital in the 21st century. For example, he shows that gifts and inheritances from parents today are much more crucial to getting into the housing market, and we see a similar development here at home. Sociologist Marianne Nordli Hansen shows that inheritance has also become more important in Norway. You have 26 pst. of the 1 pst. The richest in 1993 had parents who had also been among the wealthy in the country, this proportion had increased to 42pst in 2010. The tax lists reveal that some of the richest people in the country are heirs, and as a snowball, the great differences will continue to grow larger and larger. It is fundamentally unfair to inherit a better position in life. It is also fundamentally unfair not to pay taxes when you inherit $10 million. kr from the family, while you have to pay taxes when working hard. None of the parties are voting against inheritance tax today, who are able to defend why they believe that it is worth inheriting is so much more important than it is worth working. Tax on inheritance is the opposite of the development that we have seen under the government that we have now. It is a tax that follows the principle of taxation by ability, and it is an effective tax. It contributes to the spread of taxes on several bases, and in addition it is assumed to have little distortive effects and does not affect production and employment. That's why we also see that most of the countries we compare with have inheritance taxes. There are solutions for anyone who wants to. SV has proposed here a different model of inheritance tax than the model we had until 2014. We propose a concrete and more progressive model of inheritance tax, while having an independent proposal to explore how a progressive inheritance tax with high deductions can be designed and would also like to take account of different types of generational shifts. So neither the right side nor the Workers' Party will be involved in looking at how such a tax could have been designed. I guess it's more comfortable then to shade against the previous model, which is a broad consensus if not good enough. Even more eye-catching is that no more batches will be involved in obtaining statistics on inheritance received, a statistics we lack today. But if you're first opposed to a inheritance tax, it's probably more comfortable not to know about these numbers. There is a broad consensus among economists that inheritance tax is a wise tax. Important recommendations were also made by the Inheritance Fee Committee in 2000. The OECD recommends it, and so does The Economist. You'd think it made an impression. Unfortunately, the majority of population say no to this important instrument of distribution and justice. With that I take up the suggestions SV is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e1111	The representative, Kari Elisabeth Kaski, has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e1116	In the fall came the tax lists for 2017. They showed that eight of the ten richest in Norway have inherited their wealth. This suggests that inheritance taxes are likely to be an important measure if we are to counteract the differences in power and wealth, which only increase in Norwegian society. Here it goes the wrong way. Recently, the SSB stated quite unequivocally that wealth is extremely distorted in Norway and that the inequality has increased significantly in recent decades, regardless of who has been in government. The harvest list from the magazine Capital over Norway’s 400 richest showed that Norway now has more than 300 billionaires for the first time and that the wealth of the 400 richest increased by more than 14pst. last year. So this growth in income and wealth for them at the top is miles higher than the growth of ordinary people's wages and in society too. It is a small economic elite that increases its power and influence over the Norwegian economy at a rapid pace, and these privileges are inherited. We have a government that increasingly rewards those who inherit, while increasingly punishing those who work, with ever-new taxes for people most and tax cuts for them at the top. This is the government's new "hereditary line": You must rise early in the morning and inherit to become rich here in the country, if you are to follow government policies. In 2014, the inheritance fee was removed. It generated annual revenues of about 2 billion. kr. The resistance to reintroduction of inheritance taxes is often justified by the fact that the previous levy gave little money in the cash box and did not meet them with the really large assets. It suggests that the design of a inheritance tax should be made more progressive and so that it ensures that it is the richest that must contribute more. Then the aim of such a tax must be, first of all, to counteract the concentration of power that development brings, where heirs gain a completely unfair power and influence over society by means of owning large amounts of capital – much more power than any employee can dream of achieving in the course of a lifetime of work. A new and better model of inheritance tax than that removed in 2014 therefore needs to be investigated and introduced as soon as possible. One consequence of the removal of the fee is that the statistics on inheritance received are no longer published by the SSB, and then the Ministry of Finance can no longer calculate the impact of different inheritance tax models. It is important that opposition parties should be able to demonstrate the consequences of their proposals when they come to the budget. It is a democratic problem if there are no good statistics on the size of the wealth that changes hands between generations. We are proposing that this should be done. ‘shall be required to report inheritance settlements to the tax authorities so that the collection and publication of statistics on the inheritance received can be reintroduced as was done in Norway until 2014.’» Several parties say that it is more accurate to use the property tax to reduce the class divisions. Red is for a combination of several tax measures to break up the extreme wealth concentration we're looking to grow. We want to counteract dynasties by having a progressive property tax with reduced valuation discounts, increased taxes on dividends and the introduction of a progressive wealth tax. It is because we believe it is a problem that more and more wealth and power accumulate on ever fewer hands. We need to spread power, and then we have to make sure that the heirs pay to the community, and that there are not ordinary workers who get the big bill for the welfare state.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e1136	Is the representative of Moxnes going to make a proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e1142	: Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e1147	The representative Bears Moxnes has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e1152	When we abolished the inheritance tax in 2014, Norwegian taxpayers could say goodbye to an inheritance tax code that was both comprehensive and complicated. For Norwegian business owners, this meant a relief of the liquidity burden at generation shifts and the same for the transfer of family properties. In addition, the administrative costs associated with the practice of this legislation were reduced by the tax rate. It can be seen from the proposers that only the richest inheritors in this country are the ones who were thus subject to the inheritance tax. That's wrong. Ordinary people also inherit, and we have seen cases where young people who have lost their parents have had to sell the house they are left with, or else they have inherited, to afford to pay the inheritance fee. It was therefore correct and important to remove the inheritance fee. The representative’s proposal justifies the reintroduction of the inheritance tax for distribution purposes. However, the inheritance tax, as it was designed, was not a good instrument for redistribution. Norway is a country with small differences. We are among the OECD countries with the lowest income inequality. We also score high on international standards of living, trust and quality of life. Several studies show that income mobility between generations is higher in Norway and the other Nordic countries than in many other countries. The biggest difference is between those who are at work and those who are out of work. Being at work is important for your own standard of living. That many are at work is also important for equality, total value creation and the sustainability of our welfare systems. Creating more jobs and including more people in the labour market is the main response to inequality. Our tax and transfer system helps to reduce income inequality. However, the debate on inequality should not be reduced to a question of redistribution through taxes and transfers. We need to focus attention on the most important thing: how do we organize so that more people can take care of their own lives by being at work? Our most important job is to help ensure that outsiders do not stay. As politicians, we cannot give up making more people work and giving more security to alleviate the problems of standing outside. If we get more into the labour market, we get both a stronger community and more value creation. This is not only about greater sustainability, it is also an important issue of value. The government will use the good times to get more people to work. When companies demand more labour, we need to include several of the outsiders who want to work. Everyone has something to do with it. One consequence of the abolition of the inheritance tax was the introduction of a general principle of continuity for property received as inheritance or gift. The government's income from the inheritance tax fell, but the introduction of the continuity principle counteracted part of the effect by increasing taxation on the income side when such property is sold. Furthermore, it is reasonable to assume that the increase on the income tax side was greatest for high income groups. There are significant challenges in designing a simple, appropriate and fair inheritance tax, which at the same time ensures that the liquidity burden of generation shifts in family-run enterprises is eased. I am therefore pleased that the majority of the Committee on Financial Affairs is in favour of the adoption of the proposal by the representatives for a new inheritance tax. The Granavolden Declaration states that the removal of the inheritance fee is to be maintained. With regard to the proposal to introduce a reporting obligation on inheritance settlement to tax authorities, I agree that inheritance statistics are important in order to give a comprehensive picture of income and wealth conditions in society, but it has so far not been appropriate to reintroduce the same reporting requirements for inheritance and gift recipients when we do not have inheritance tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e1183	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e1188	It is true, as the Council of State says, that, in general, at the same time as a abolished inheritance tax, a principle of continuity was introduced. But this does not apply to absolutely everyone, among other things. in parts of agriculture, a discontinuity principle applies. Then I have a simple question for the Council of State: could the Council of State be involved in extending the system of the principle of discontinuity for agriculture, so that it would better facilitate investment and generational change in agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e1193	We went many rounds between the government and the Central Party on these questions in connection with the removal of the inheritance fee, and I can see no reason to go further with what the Central Party also suggested at the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e1198	I would like to have a more detailed explanation for this, because now a harvest has some experience of the fact that it has been several years since the inheritance tax was abolished and a general principle of continuity was implemented with a limited discontinuity principle for parts of agriculture. Would it not at least make sense for one government to gain experience of how this has worked for agriculture and, where appropriate, to be able to assess the appropriateness of changes?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e1203	I have not registered that it has been mentioned as a growing problem in the cold water because the inheritance fee fell in 2014.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e1208	I notice that both the Council of State and the others from the government parties say it is difficult to create a good model of inheritance tax that will ensure distribution, which will ensure a progressive model and generation change. With respect to reporting, it is difficult for me to believe that the government has tried. Today, the proposal to actually determine that type of model is also rejected. I wonder if the Council of State can outsource the grounds on which they say it is difficult. I was in my post a little bit concerned that both economists in Norway, the inheritance tax committee from 2000, which points out that inheritance tax is an important distribution policy instrument, the OECD, which recommends inheritance tax and that it is reintroduced where it is removed, and The Economist believes that inheritance tax is a fair tax. I wonder, what is the government's understanding that these actors haven't realized?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e1215	The debate on inheritance fees very often goes along traditional dividing lines in Norwegian policy. It is a very honest matter that SV, Red and sometimes others are busy taxing the same crown several times. Government parties disagree. We have a good tax system in Norway, which means that those who have a lot pay most in taxes. But it is now the case that the main problem with the inheritance fee at that time was not that it first hit those who had the most. It also hit those who had the least — in an inheritance settlement, in some situations they had to pay more to the state and sell a family property that might have been owned by the family for generations. I think that is grossly unreasonable. It is also part of a healthy principle in our society that all people, regardless of their origin, should have the right to inherit their parents.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e1221	Yes, inheritance tax should also apply to relatively common people. This shall apply to inheritance. Therefore, SV has proposed a base deduction of 5 million. kr. Some would think it's pretty loud. If you also take into account that this applies to each heir, you have to enter into rather difficult values divided into several heirs before the inheritance fee with our model kicks in. Here it is possible to look at several different proposals. But inheritance is now once inherited, and it's tax-free. I notice that the government and the finance minister are talking about taxing the same crown several times. Well, we do that all the time. This applies to the principle of value added tax, for example, which means that you also tax the same dollar several times. And we see a trend in which more and more of the tax pressure in Norway is shifting to taxes such as VAT, while those with large wealth and inheritance go tax-free. Is the government concerned about that development?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e1228	I am satisfied with much of the work that has been done to clean up the tax system in recent years. We basically have a progressive tax system. At the same time, the government has decided to reduce the tax on work because we think it makes sense in our society. It is quite right, as the representative Kaski says, that we also pay VAT on the goods we buy, but it is a healthier principle to tax consumption than to tax work.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e1233	I think it's a healthier principle to tax inheritance than to tax work as well. That is why there are also so clear recommendations on why inheritance tax should be applied, because it has very few negative consequences. It does not affect the productivity of the economy. This means that we get a broad tax base. Perhaps it can also ensure that the total amount of taxes and taxes for most people, who have increased under this government, can be reduced. The Council of State was concerned with the principle of continuity. It is also in the setting from the government parties. I would like to ask the Council of State directly: does the Council of State agree that the principle of continuity has nothing to do with inheritance tax at all? It's a profit tax. It hasn't been inheritance tax in the past, now it's, and it's positive. But that there's a tax on inheritance, an inheritance tax, there's reason to be skeptical about, I think. Do the councils agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e1240	I explained in my main post that, in connection with the termination of the inheritance fee, we also made some other cleaning-up work, including. through the principle of continuity. That being said, and back to the main debate that goes on about this: there is an honest case that there is disagreement between different parties related to inheritance taxes – or the taxation of death, as many have also chosen to call it. I am pleased that we removed the inheritance fee in 2014, and as long as this government sits, it will not be reinstated either.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e1247	Replicate cord shift complete. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e1254	The richest of the country contributes to the community. At the base of 14 pst. the population provides 40 pst. of the tax revenue. 50 pst. of the population represents 15 pst. of the tax revenue. The remaining 50 pst. Thus stands for 85 pst. of the tax revenue. That's why it's wrong to say that those who have the most don't contribute the most. A reintroduction of the inheritance tax in some form, including, according to SV's view, a solid deduction, is to a large extent a tax on Norwegian jobs. The inheritance tax will create uncertainty in the case of generation changes. We must not forget that the majority of jobs in the private sector are in small and medium-sized enterprises. Many of them are family-run companies. SV tends to be busy using the whole country. Many of the companies that will be hit the hardest are most needed – in the small municipalities with few jobs in the private sector. We have to ensure predictable and safe conditions for business. Values must be created before they can be used. Norway is doing well now, but the time is definitely not in place to pierce the wheels by reintroducing the inheritance tax – not in any form. It is also important to bear in mind that taxes have been paid on the wealth in the course of the process as it has been earned. Someone has worked for it while it has been created. Some have worked hard to create their own and others' jobs and contributed to the community through this.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e1263	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e1275	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting. Case No. 1 has been completed before today.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e1297	The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e1313	A total of three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Åsunn Lyngedal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Environment Party Dei Green and Red proposed no. 2 and 3, from Une Bastholm on behalf of the Green and Red Party Proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for experience from other countries with similar ownership registers and the use of different thresholds and the determination of a threshold below 25 pst. in order to ensure that Norway is a leading country in terms of transparency and a follow-up to both the Intrinsian decision of the Storting. [[2014-2015]] 298 S and the fourth EU Laundering Directive’. The Socialist Left has already given its support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e1531	Alternatively, A § 3, first paragraph, and proposal No. 2. from the Green and Red Environmental Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The first paragraph of Section 3 of the Law on Registers of Real Owners of Rights is replaced by the following: The law here refers to legal persons, listed companies, entities and other associations and managers of foreign trusts and similar legal arrangements falling within the scope of Section 2 of the Act.» The Socialist Left has already given its support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e1552	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e1557	It will be fixed. The result is that 90 representatives voted for the Committee's recommendation and 11 representatives for the Green and Red Green Party's proposal. The recommendation is therefore attached. The second sentence of the first paragraph of Section 4 and proposal No. 3, from the Environmental Party of Greens and Reds. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The second sentence of the first paragraph of Section 4 of the Law on Registers of Real Owners of Rights is replaced by the following: For the purposes of identification, the criteria of Section 14 of the Laundering Act apply, with the exception of the threshold of 25 pst. in point (a) of the first paragraph of Section 14 of the Laundering Act, which is here referred to as 5 pst.’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e1577	The rest of the A, all of the remaining paragraphs, will be so humiliated.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e1587	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e1597	The law decision will be passed until a second time treatment is given in a later Storting meeting. It was also recommended that:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e1611	The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e1627	A total of four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Rigmor Aasrud on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green and Red Environmental Party proposed no. 2 and 3, from Sigbjørn Gælsvik on behalf of the Centre Party proposal No 4, from Sivert Bjørnstad on behalf of Right, Advance Party, Left and Christian People's Party Proposal No. Three, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to review current pension legislation with a view to keeping the administrative costs of paid pensions down and reducing unnecessary red tape and burdens on small enterprises, organisations, teams and associations and ensuring that changes to the legislation do not involve increased red tape for such enterprises.’
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e1654	Proposal No. 2nd from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to submit proposals implementing the first-head pension principle. This amendment shall be prepared by a body of parties to this principle.’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e1669	Proposal No. 4, from the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government asks the government to set down a selection of parties to assess the pension from the first penny.»
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e1691	Alternatively, between the recommendation of the Committee and proposal No. 1, from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government asks the government to propose to amend the compulsory occupational pension law so that pension savings start from the first earned crown.» The centre party has already received subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e1710	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e1715	Then we take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e1731	A total of five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1-3, by Kari Elisabeth Kaski, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party proposal No 4, from the Bears Moxnes on behalf of Red proposal No 5, from Svein Roald Hansen on behalf of the Labour Party Proposal No. Four, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for increased taxation of labourless capital income, labourless transfer of wealth and accumulated wealth, including taxes on wealth, inheritances and dividends. The investigation must include measures against tax adaptations and tax evasion, with objectives of a tax system that counteracts dynasties.»
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e1760	I voted wrong. I should have voted against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e1765	I'll fix that. The result is that 98 representatives have voted against the proposal and 2 representatives for it. The proposal is therefore not accepted. The Committee had recommended that the Storting should do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e1777	Alternatively, between the recommendation of the Committee and the proposal No. 1, 2 and 3 from the Socialist Left Party and Red Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals for reporting inheritance settlements to the tax authorities so that the collection and publication of statistics on the inheritance received can be reintroduced as it was made until 2014.’» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to determine how a progressive inheritance tax with high deductions can be designed. The results of the investigation shall be presented together with the draft State budget for 2020.’;» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a proposal for a progressive inheritance tax with a base deduction of 5 million in the context of the State budget for 2020. crowns and at the lowest rate of 10 pst.»
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e1804	Proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit a plan to reduce the economic differences between people’. The Central Party, the Socialist Left, the Green and Red Environmental Party have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2019-02-07.ana.ud407e1841	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
